<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130222_10-K_edgar_data_4962_0001193125-13-070554_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>35090998</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>907840</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>8864379</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8186439</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>11480101</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4700330</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>171</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-070554.hdr.sgml : 20130222
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130222094518
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-070554
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130222

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AMERICAN EXPRESS CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000004962
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FINANCE SERVICES [6199]
		IRS NUMBER:				134922250
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07657
		FILM NUMBER:		13632511

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 VESEY STREET
		STREET 2:		50TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2126402000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 VESEY STREET
		STREET 2:		50TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10285

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-070554.txt : 20130222

10-K
 1
 d486442d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549
       Form 10-K        
 
     OR        

For the transition period from                      to
                             Commission File No. 1-7657        American Express Company    
   (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

New York   
     
   13-4922250    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of   
   incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     
 
     World Financial Center       200 Vesey Street       New York, New York    
     
   10285    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (212) 640-2000    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which
registered     

Common Shares (par value $0.20 per Share)   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for a shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Table of Contents  

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer       
      
  Non-accelerated filer       
      
  Smaller reporting company        

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes         No        
  As of June 30, 2012, the aggregate market value of the registrant s voting shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
approximately $66.1 billion based on the closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.      As of
February 15, 2013, there were 1,104,651,022 common shares of the registrant outstanding.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE       Parts I, II and IV: Portions of Registrant s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders.   
  Part III: Portions of Registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 29, 2013.       

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Form 10-K     Item Number   
      
             Page       

PART I     

1.  

Business   

Introduction    

1        

Global Network   Merchant Services    

4        

U.S. Card Services    

14        

International Card Services    

24        

Global Commercial Services    

25        

Corporate   Other    

29        

Supervision and Regulation    

33        

Foreign Operations    

51        

Segment Information and Classes of Similar Services    

51        

Executive Officers of the Company    

51        

Employees    

53        

Guide 3   Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies    

54        

1A.  

Risk Factors   

70        

1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments   

88        

2.  

Properties   

88        

3.  

Legal Proceedings   

88        

4.  

Mine Safety Disclosures   

93        

PART II     

5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

94        

6.  

Selected Financial Data   

95        

7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

95        

7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

95        

8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

95        

9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   

95        

9A.  

Controls and Procedures   

95        

9B.  

Other Information   

96        

PART III     

10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

96        

11.  

Executive Compensation    

96        

12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

96        

13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

96        

14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

97        

PART IV     

15.  

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

97        

Signatures   

98        

Index to Financial Statements   

F-1        

Exhibit Index   

E-1        

i   

Table of Contents  

      PART I  *        

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS            INTRODUCTION        Overview
      American Express Company, together with its consolidated subsidiaries ( American Express,  the
 Company,   we,   us  or  our ), is a global services company that provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. Our principal products and
services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to consumers and businesses around the world.      We were founded in 1850 as a joint stock association. We were incorporated in 1965 as a New York corporation. American Express Company and its principal operating subsidiary, American Express Travel
Related Services Company, Inc. ( TRS ), are bank holding companies under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ), subject to the supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ).      Our headquarters are located in New York, New York in lower Manhattan. We
also have offices in other locations in North America, as well as throughout the world.      We are principally engaged in
businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: U.S. Card Services, International Card Services, Global Commercial Services and Global Network   Merchant Services, all of which we describe below. Corporate functions and
auxiliary businesses, including the Company s Enterprise Growth Group, publishing business and other company operations, are included in Corporate   Other.      We compete in the global payments industry with charge, credit and debit card networks, issuers and acquirers, as well as evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products. As the payments
industry continues to evolve, we are facing increasing competition from non-traditional players, such as online networks, telecom providers and software-as-a-service providers, that leverage new technologies and customers  existing card
accounts and bank relationships to create payment or other fee-based solutions. We are transforming our existing businesses and creating new products and services for the digital marketplace as we increase our share of online spend, enhance our
customers  digital experiences and develop platforms for online and mobile commerce.       Securities Exchange Act Reports
and Additional Information       We maintain an Investor Relations Web site on the Internet at http://ir.americanexpress.com.
We make available free of charge, on or through this Web site, our annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). To access these materials, click on the  SEC Filings  link under the caption  Financial Information/Filings  on our Investor Relations homepage.   
  You can also access our Investor Relations Web site through our main Web site at www.americanexpress.com by clicking on the  About
American Express  link, which is located at the bottom of our homepage. Information contained on our Investor Relations Web site, our main Web site and other Web sites referred to in this report is not incorporated by reference into this report
or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. We have included such Web site addresses only as inactive textual references and do not intend them to be active links.   
             *    Some of the
statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements. You can identify forward-looking statements by words such as  believe,   expect,   anticipate,   optimistic,   intend, 
 plan,   aim,   will,   may,   should,   could,   would,   likely,   estimate,   predict,   potential,   continue  or other
similar expressions. We discuss certain factors that affect our business and operations and that may cause our actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements under  Risk Factors  below. You are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.   
         1   

Table of Contents  

   This report includes trademarks, such as American Express     , which are protected under applicable intellectual property laws and are the property of American Express Company or
its subsidiaries. This report also contains trademarks, service marks, copyrights and tradenames of other companies, which are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and tradenames referred to in this report
may appear without the       or    TM    symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent
under applicable law, our rights or the right of the applicable licensor to these trademarks and tradenames.       2012
Highlights       Compared with 2011, we delivered:   

Diluted earnings per share based on net income attributable to common shareholders of $3.89, down 6 percent from $4.12      

Our results for 2012 continued to reflect strong spending growth and credit performance in both the United States and internationally.
The rate of growth was, however, slower than in the prior year, reflecting in part the impact of a challenging global economic environment. We also saw our average loans continue to grow modestly year over year, leading to a 6 percent growth in net
interest income while lending loss rates are near all-time lows. Results for 2012 were impacted by three charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2012 related to restructuring of $400 million, Membership Rewards estimation process enhancements of $342
million and cardmember reimbursements of $153 million in addition to amounts incurred in prior quarters during the year.      For
a complete discussion of our 2012 financial results, including financial information regarding each of our reportable operating segments, see pages 16-114 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference. For
a discussion of our principal sources of revenue, see pages 65-66 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders.       Products
and Services       Our range of products and services includes:   

Charge and credit card products          

Expense management products and services          

Consumer and business travel services          

Stored value products such as Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products      

Network services          

Merchant acquisition and processing, servicing and settlement, and point-of-sale, marketing and information products and services for merchants

Fee services, including fraud prevention services and the design of customized customer loyalty and rewards programs      
  Our various products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers, small businesses, mid-sized
companies and large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels, including direct mail, online applications, in-house and third-party sales forces and direct response advertising.   
  Our products and services generate the following types of revenue:   

Discount revenue, our largest revenue source, which represents fees generally charged to merchants when cardmembers ( Cardmembers ) use their
cards to purchase goods and services at merchants on our network          

Net card fees, which represent revenue earned for annual card memberships      
         2   

Table of Contents  

Travel commissions and fees, which are earned by charging a transaction or management fee for airline or other travel-related transactions

Other commissions and fees, which are earned on foreign exchange conversions and card-related fees and assessments      

Other revenue, which represents insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other insurance programs, revenues arising from contracts with
Global Network Services ( GNS ) partners (including royalties and signing fees), publishing revenues and other miscellaneous revenue and fees      

Interest on loans, which principally represent interest income earned on outstanding balances      
  Our general-purpose card network, card-issuing and merchant-acquiring and processing businesses are global in scope.
We are a world leader in providing charge and credit cards to consumers, small businesses and corporations. These cards include cards issued by American Express as well as cards issued by third-party banks and other institutions that are accepted by
merchants on the American Express network (collectively,  Cards ). American Express Cards permit Cardmembers to charge purchases of goods and services in most countries around the world at the millions of merchants that accept Cards
bearing our logo. At December 31, 2012, we had total worldwide Cards-in-force of 102.4 million (including Cards issued by third parties). In 2012, our worldwide billed business (spending on American Express      Cards, including Cards issued by third parties) was $888.4 billion.   
  Our business as a whole has not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations, although travel sales generally tend
to be highest in the second and fourth quarters. Travelers Cheque sales tend to be greatest each year in the summer months, peaking in the third quarter. American Express      Gift Card sales are highest in the months of November and December; and Card billed business tends to be moderately higher in the fourth quarter than in other
quarters.       Competitive Advantages of our Closed-Loop Network and Spend-Centric Model    
  We believe our  closed-loop  network and  spend-centric  business model continue to be competitive advantages by
giving us the ability to provide more value to Cardmembers, merchants and our Card-issuing partners.      Wherever we manage both
the acquiring relationship with merchants and the Card-issuing side of the business, there is a  closed-loop,  which distinguishes our network from the bankcard networks, in that we have access to information at both ends of the Card
transaction. We maintain direct relationships with both our Cardmembers (as a card issuer) and our merchants (as an acquirer), and we handle all key aspects of those relationships. This allows us to analyze information on Cardmember spending and
build algorithms and other analytical tools that enable us to provide targeted marketing and other information services for merchants and special offers and services to Cardmembers through a variety of channels. At the same time, we protect the
confidentiality of Cardmember data, including information on Cardmember spending, in compliance with our privacy, data protection, information security and firewall policies; applicable privacy, data protection and information security laws, rules
and regulations (hereinafter,  Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws  and antitrust and other applicable legal requirements.      Our  spend-centric  business model focuses on generating revenues primarily by driving spending on our Cards and secondarily by finance charges and fees. Spending on our Cards, which is higher
on average on a per-card basis versus our competitors, offers greater value to merchants in the form of loyal customers and higher sales. This enables us to earn discount revenue that allows us to invest more in greater value-added services for
merchants and Cardmembers. Because of the revenues generated from higher-spending Cardmembers, we have the flexibility to invest in more attractive rewards and other benefits to Cardmembers, as well as targeted marketing and other programs and
investments for merchants, all of which in turn create incentives for Cardmembers to spend more on their Cards. The significant investments we make in rewards and other compelling value propositions for Cardmembers incent Card usage at merchants and
Cardmember loyalty.       The American Express Brand    
  Our brand and its attributes   trust, security, integrity, quality and customer service   are key assets of the Company. We
continue to focus on our brand, and our programs, products and services are evidence of our commitment to its attributes. Our brand has consistently been rated one of the most valuable brands in the world in published studies, and we believe it
provides us with a significant competitive advantage.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

   We believe our brand and its attributes are critical to our success, and we invest heavily
in managing, marketing and promoting it. In addition, we place significant importance on trademarks, service marks and patents, and diligently protect our intellectual property rights around the world.   
     GLOBAL NETWORK   MERCHANT SERVICES    
  The Global Network   Merchant Services ( GNMS ) segment operates a global payments network that processes and settles
proprietary and non-proprietary card transactions. GNMS acquires merchants and provides point-of-sale products and services, multi-channel marketing programs and capabilities, services and data, leveraging our global closed-loop network. It enters
into partnership agreements with third-party card issuers and acquirers, licensing the American Express brand and extending the reach of the global network.      The majority of Cards bearing our logo are issued by our principal operating subsidiary, TRS, by the Company s U.S. banking subsidiaries, American Express Centurion Bank ( Centurion
Bank ) and American Express Bank, FSB ( AEBFSB ), and by other operating and banking subsidiaries outside the United States. In addition, our GNS business establishes and maintains relationships with banks and other institutions
around the world that issue Cards and, in certain countries, acquire local merchants on the American Express network. GNS is key to our strategy of broadening the Cardmember and merchant base for our network worldwide. Cards bearing our logo are
accepted at all merchant locations worldwide that accept American Express-branded Cards and, depending on the product, they are generally accepted at ATM locations worldwide that accept cards.   
  Our Global Merchant Services ( GMS ) business provides us with access to rich transaction data through our closed-loop network,
which encompasses relationships with both the Cardmember and the merchant. This capability helps us acquire new merchants, deepen relationships with existing merchants, process transactions, and provide targeted marketing, analytical and other
value-added services to merchants on our network. In addition, it allows us to analyze trends and spending patterns among various segments of our customer base.       Global Network Services       We continue to pursue a strategy,
through our GNS business, of inviting U.S. and foreign banks and other institutions to issue Cards and, in some countries, act as merchant acquirers on the American Express network. By leveraging our global infrastructure and the appeal of the
American Express brand, we broaden our Cardmember and merchant base for our network worldwide. This strategy also enables us to enhance our presence in countries where we already do business and expand our presence into new geographic areas at
economic scale and cost levels that would be difficult for us to achieve on our own. The GNS business has established 148 Card-issuing and/or merchant-acquiring arrangements with banks and other institutions in 160 countries. In assessing whether we
should pursue a proprietary or GNS strategy in a given country, or some combination thereof, we consider a wide range of country-specific factors, including the stability and attractiveness of financial returns, the size of the affluent segment, the
strength of available marketing and credit data, the size of co-brand opportunities and how we can best create strong merchant value.      In 2012, GNS signed 12 new partners to issue Cards and/or acquire merchants on the American Express network, including new card-issuing partnerships with Scotiabank in Canada, China Mingsheng Banking
Corp., Ltd in China, Uralsib in Russia and a new partnership with G-Xchange, Inc. to develop an online payment solution in the Philippines. GNS also supported existing partners in launching approximately 84 new products during 2012, with the total
number of American Express-branded GNS partner products standing at over 1,000. New products launched in 2012 include the
Centurion      Card from American Express issued by Industrial and Commercial Bank of China and by China Merchants
Bank in China; the JAL American Express      Card issued by Mitsubishi UFJ Nicos in Japan; Blue from American
Express      issued by Russian Standard Bank in Russia; the EASY Card issued by Garanti Bank in Turkey; the EZ Link
Imagine American Express      Prepaid Card issued by EZ Link Pte Ltd in Singapore; and American Express      Virtual Pay issued by Tenpay in China. GNS also continues to expand the airline co-brand products issued through GNS
relationships, launching 4 new airline co-brands in 2012 bringing the total to 61 airline co-brand GNS products.      GNS focuses
on partnering with qualified third-party banks and other institutions that choose to issue Cards accepted on our global network and/or acquire merchants on our network. Although we customize our network arrangements to the particular country and
each partner s requirements, as well as to our strategic plans in that marketplace, all GNS   
         4   

Table of Contents  

arrangements are designed to help issuers develop products for their highest-spending and most affluent customers and to support the value of American Express Card acceptance to merchants. We
choose to partner with institutions that share a core set of attributes compatible with the American Express brand, such as commitment to high quality standards and strong marketing expertise, and we require adherence to our product, brand and
service standards.   **      
  With over 1,000 different Card products launched on our network so far by our partners, GNS is an increasingly important business that is
strengthening our brand visibility around the world, driving more transaction volume onto our merchant network and increasing the number of merchants choosing to accept the American Express Card. GNS enables us to expand our network s global
presence generally without assuming additional Cardmember credit risk or having to invest a large amount of resources, as our GNS partners already have established attractive customer bases to whom they can target American Express-branded products,
and are responsible for managing the credit risk associated with the Cards they issue. Since 1999, Cards-in-force issued by GNS partners have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 22%, and totaled over 37 million Cards at the end of 2012.
Outside the United States, approximately 78% of new Cards issued in 2012 were Cards issued by GNS partners. Spending on GNS Cards has grown at a compound annual rate of 24% since 1999. Year-over-year spending growth on these Cards in 2012 was 10%,
with total spending equal to $129 billion.       GNS Arrangements    
  Although the structures and details of each of the GNS arrangements vary, all of them generate revenues for us from the Card transaction
volumes they drive on the American Express network. Gross revenues we receive per dollar spent on a Card issued by a GNS partner are generally lower than those from our proprietary Card-issuing business. However, because the GNS partner is
responsible for most of the operating costs and risk of its Card-issuing business, our operating expenses and credit losses are generally lower than those in our proprietary Card-issuing business. The GNS business model generates an attractive
earnings stream and risk profile that requires a lower level of capital support. The return on equity in our GNS business can thus be significantly higher than that of our proprietary Card-issuing business. In addition, since the majority of GNS
costs are fixed, the GNS business is highly scalable. GNS partners benefit from their association with the American Express brand and their ability to gain attractive revenue streams and expand and differentiate their product offerings with
innovative marketing programs.      Our GNS arrangements fall into the following three main categories: Independent Operator
Arrangements, Network Card License Arrangements and Joint Venture Arrangements.        Independent Operator Arrangements.      The first type of GNS arrangement
is known as an independent operator ( IO ) arrangement. As of the end of 2012, we had 67 of these arrangements around the world. We pursue these arrangements to expand the presence of the American Express network in countries in which we
do not offer a proprietary local currency Card. The partner s local presence and relationships help us enhance the impact of our brand in the country, reach merchant coverage goals more quickly, and operate at economic scale and cost levels
that would be difficult for us to achieve on our own. Subject to meeting our standards, IO partners are licensed to issue local currency Cards in their countries, including the American Express classic Green, Gold and Platinum Card     . In addition, most of these partners serve as the merchant acquirer and processor for local merchants. American
Express retains the relationship with multinational merchants. Our IO partners own the customer relationships and credit risk for the Cards they issue, and make the decisions about which customers will be issued Cards. GNS generates revenues in IO
arrangements from Card licensing fees, royalties on Cardmember billings, foreign exchange conversion revenue, royalties on charge volume at merchants, share of discount revenue and, in some partnerships, royalties on net spread revenue or royalties
on Cards-in-force. Our IO partners are responsible for transaction authorization, billing and pricing, Cardmember and merchant servicing, and funding Card receivables for their Cards and payables for their merchants.    
  We bear the credit risk arising from the IO partner s potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate this
risk by partnering with institutions that we believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by monitoring their financial health, their compliance with the terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic and
regulatory environment in which they operate. In addition, depending on an IO partner s credit rating and other indicators of financial health, we may require an IO partner to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other collateral to
reduce this risk.       

**      
  The use of the term  partner  or  partnering  does not mean or imply a formal legal partnership, and is not meant in any way to alter the terms of
American Express  relationship with third-party issuers and merchant acquirers.     
         5   

Table of Contents  

   Examples of countries where we have entered into IO arrangements include Brazil, Russia,
Indonesia, Turkey, Ecuador, Colombia, South Korea, Malaysia, Croatia, Peru, Portugal and Vietnam. Through our IO partnerships, we believe we can accelerate growth in Cardmember spending, Cards-in-force and merchant acceptance in these countries.
       Network Card License Arrangements.      The second type of GNS arrangement is known as a network Card license ( NCL ). At the end of 2012, we had 77 of these arrangements
in place worldwide. We pursue these arrangements to increase our brand presence and gain share in countries in which we have a proprietary Card-issuing and/or merchant acquiring business and, in a few cases, those in which we have IO partners. In an
NCL arrangement, we grant the third-party institution a license to issue American Express-branded Cards. The NCL issuer owns the customer relationships for all Cards it issues, provides customer service to its Cardmembers, authorizes transactions,
manages billing and credit, is responsible for marketing the Cards, and designs Card product features (including rewards and other incentives for Cardmembers), subject to meeting certain standards. We operate the merchant network, route and process
Card transactions from the merchant s point of sale through submission to the issuer, and settle with issuers. The NCL is the type of arrangement we have implemented with banks in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Japan.
      GNS  revenues in NCL arrangements are driven by a variety of factors, including the level of Cardmember spending,
royalties, currency conversions and licensing fees paid by the NCL issuer and fees charged to the NCL issuer based on charge volume, plus our provision of value-added services such as Cardmember insurance products and other Card features and
benefits for the NCL issuer s Cards. As indicated above, the NCL issuer bears the credit risk for the issued Cards, as well as the Card marketing and acquisition costs, Cardmember fraud risks and costs of rewards and other loyalty initiatives.
We bear the risk arising from the NCL issuer s potential failure to meet its settlement obligations to us. We mitigate this risk by partnering with institutions that we believe are financially sound and will meet their obligations, and by
monitoring their financial health, their compliance with the terms of their relationship with us and the political, economic and regulatory environment in which they operate. In addition, depending on an NCL issuer s credit rating and other
indicators of financial health, we may require an NCL issuer to post a letter of credit, bank guarantee or other collateral to reduce this risk.      Examples of NCL arrangements include our relationships with Bank of America in the United States, Lloyds TSB Bank in the United Kingdom and Westpac Banking Corporation in Australia.   
    Joint Venture Arrangements.      The third type of GNS arrangement is a joint venture ( JV ) arrangement. We have utilized this type of arrangement in Switzerland
and Belgium, as well as in other countries. In these countries, we join with a third party to establish a separate business in which we have a significant ownership stake. The JV typically signs new merchants to accept Cards on the American Express
network and issues local and U.S. dollar-denominated currency Cards that carry our logo. In a JV arrangement, the JV is responsible for the Cardmember credit risk and bears the operating and marketing costs. Unlike the other two types of GNS
arrangements, we share management, risk, and profit and loss responsibility with our JV partners. Income is generated by discount revenues, Card fees and net spread revenues. The economics of the JV are similar to those of our proprietary
Card-issuing business, which we discuss under  U.S. Card Services,  and we receive a portion of the JV s income depending on, among other things, the level of our ownership interest. Our subsidiary, American Express Overseas
Credit Corporation Limited, purchases Card receivables from certain of the GNS JVs from time to time.        Global
Merchant Services       Our GMS business builds and maintains relationships with merchants, processes Card transactions and
settles with merchants that choose to accept Cards for Card purchases ( Charges ). We sign merchants to accept Cards and provide marketing information and other programs and services to merchants, leveraging the capabilities provided by
our closed-loop network. We also offer point-of-sale products and services, support for Card acceptance, fraud prevention and other value-added services. Continued investments in the GMS business were a key priority in 2012 and will remain so in
2013.      Our objective is for Cardmembers to be able to use the Card wherever and however they desire, and to increase merchant
acceptance in key geographic areas and industries that have not traditionally accepted the Card. We add new merchants to our network through a number of sales channels: an in-house sales force; third-party sales and service agents; strategic
alliances with banks and processors; the Internet; telemarketing; and inbound  Want to Honor  calls (i.e., where merchants desiring to accept the Card contact us directly). As discussed in the  Global Network Services  section,
our IO partners and JVs also add new local merchants to the American Express network.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

   During 2012, we continued expanding our integrated American Express
OnePoint      program by adding third-party agents to service many of our small- and medium-sized merchants in the
United States. Under this program, third-party service agents identify potential new merchants and provide payment processing services to merchants on our behalf for Card transactions, while we retain the acceptance contract with participating
merchants, manage the merchant pricing process, and receive the same transactional information we always have received through our closed-loop network. This program simplifies Card processing for small- and medium-sized merchants by providing them
with a single source for statements, settlement and customer service. We have similar arrangements in Spain with La Caixa and in Mexico with Elavon.      GMS continues to expand the number of merchants that accept our Cards as well as the kinds of businesses that accept the Card in order to address Cardmember needs. Over the last several years, we have
focused our efforts on increasing the use of our Cards for everyday spending. In 1990, 64% of our U.S. billings came from the travel and entertainment sectors and 36% came from retail and other sectors. In 2012, only 27% of U.S. billings came
from the travel and entertainment sectors. This shift resulted, in part, from the growth, over time, in the types of merchants that began to accept payment cards in response to consumers  increased desire to use these cards for more of their
purchases, our focus on expanding Card acceptance to meet Cardmembers  needs, and increased competition for travel and entertainment sector spending.      During 2012, we continued our efforts to bring Card acceptance to industries where cash or checks are the predominant form of payment. For example, we have made headway in promoting Card acceptance in
industries such as pharmaceuticals, construction, industrial supply and insurance. We also continued our drive to expand Card acceptance for retail, everyday and business-to-business spending categories.   
  Globally, acceptance of general-purpose cards continues to increase. As in prior years, during 2012, we continued to grow merchant
acceptance of Cards around the world and to refine our approach to calculating merchant coverage in accordance with changes in the marketplace. We estimate that, as of the end of 2012, our merchant network in the United States accommodated more than
90% of our Cardmembers  general-purpose card spending. Our international spend coverage is more limited, although we continue to expand our merchant network in locations outside the United States. We estimate that our international merchant
network as a whole accommodated more than 80% of our Cardmembers  general-purpose card spending. These percentages are based on comparing our Cardmembers  spending on our network currently with our estimate of what our Cardmembers would
spend on our network if all merchants that accept general-purpose credit and charge cards accepted American Express Cards.   
   Discount Revenue       We earn  discount  revenue from fees charged to merchants for accepting Cards as payment for goods or services sold. The merchant discount, or discount rate, is a fee charged to the merchant for
accepting Cards and is generally expressed as a percentage of the Charge amount. In some instances, an additional flat transaction fee is assessed as part of the merchant discount. The merchant discount is generally deducted from the amount of the
payment that the  merchant acquirer  (in most cases, TRS or one of its subsidiaries) pays to a merchant for Charges submitted. A merchant acquirer is the entity that contracts for Card acceptance with the merchant, accepts transactions
from the merchant, pays the merchant for these transactions and submits the transactions to the American Express network, which submits the transactions to the appropriate Card issuer. When a Cardmember presents the Card for payment, the merchant
creates a record of charge for the transaction and submits it to the merchant acquirer for payment. To the extent that TRS or one of its subsidiaries is the merchant acquirer, the merchant discount is recorded by us as discount revenue at the time
the transaction is received by us from the merchant. We may also charge additional fees to merchants, such as a variable fee for  non-swiped  Card transactions or for transactions using Cards issued outside the United States and used at
merchants located in the United States.      Where we act as the merchant acquirer and the Card presented at a merchant is issued
by a third-party bank or financial institution, such as in the case of our GNS partners, we will make financial settlement to the merchant and receive the discount revenue. In our role as the operator of the Card network, we will also receive
financial settlement from the GNS Card issuer, who receives an issuer rate (i.e., the individually negotiated amount that GNS Card issuers receive for transactions charged on our network with Cards they issue, which is usually expressed as a
percentage of the Charge amount). The difference between the discount revenue (received by us in the form of the merchant discount) and the issuer rate received by the GNS Card issuer generates a return to us. In cases where American Express is the
Card issuer and the merchant acquirer is a third-party bank or financial institution (which can be the case in a country in which the IO is the local merchant acquirer), we receive an individually negotiated network rate in our settlement with the
merchant acquirer, which is   
         7   

Table of Contents  

recorded by us as discount revenue. By contrast with networks such as those operated by Visa Inc. ( Visa ) and MasterCard International, Inc. ( MasterCard ), there is no
collectively set interchange rate on the American Express network and no fees are agreed or due between third-party banks or financial institutions on the network.      The following diagrams depict the relationships among the parties in a point-of-sale transaction effected on the American Express network where we act as both the Card issuer and merchant acquirer (the
 3-Party Model ) and under an NCL arrangement where third-party financial institutions act as Card issuers (the  NCL Model ):       

The merchant discount we charge reflects the value we deliver to the merchant and the investments we
make in providing that value. We deliver greater value to merchants in a variety of ways, including through higher spending by our Cardmembers relative to users of cards issued on competing card networks, our product and network features and
functionality, our marketing expertise and programs, information services, fraud prevention services, our dedicated client management group, and other investments that enhance the merchant value propositions associated with acceptance of the Card.
     The merchant discount varies with, among other factors, the industry in which the merchant does business, the merchant s
Charge volume, the timing and method of payment to the merchant, the method of submission of Charges and, in certain instances, the geographic scope of the Card acceptance agreement signed with us (e.g., local or global) and the Charge amount. In
the United States and Canada, we charge a different discount rate for our prepaid cards.      In recent years, we experienced some
reduction in our global weighted average merchant discount rate. The average discount rate was 2.52 percent and 2.54 percent for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Over time, certain repricing initiatives, changes in the mix of spending by location
and industry, an increase in the amount of prepaid products, volume-related pricing discounts and strategic investments will likely result in further erosion of the average discount rate. In addition, differentiated payment models from
non-traditional players in the alternative payments space (such as PayPal and Square) could pose challenges to our traditional payment model and adversely impact our average discount rate or our ability to access transaction data through our
closed-loop network.      While we believe merchants that accept our Cards understand our merchant discount pricing in relation to
the value provided, we do encounter merchants that accept our Cards, but tell their customers that they prefer to accept another type of   
         8   

Table of Contents  

payment or otherwise seek to suppress use of the Card. Our Cardmembers value the ability to use their Cards where and when they want to, and we, therefore, take steps to meet our
Cardmembers  expectations and to protect the American Express brand, subject to local legal requirements, such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank ) in the United States. We make efforts to
limit Card suppression by focusing on acquiring merchants where Cardmembers want to use the Card; continuing to enhance the value we provide to merchants through marketing programs such as our Small Business Saturday      event targeted to encourage Cardmembers to shop at small merchants; providing earlier and more frequent
communication of our value proposition; and have the right, when appropriate, to terminate Card acceptance agreements with merchants who seek to suppress the use of our Card products. We have a client management organization dedicated to growing our
merchants  business and finding ways to enhance effectiveness of our relationship with these key business partners. Most importantly, we recognize that it is the merchant s choice whether or not to accept American Express Cards and that
all merchants have numerous options given the intense competition from new and traditional forms of payment. Therefore, we dedicate substantial resources to delivering superior and differentiated value to attract and retain our merchants.
     The laws of ten states in the United States and certain countries outside the United States prohibit the surcharging of
credit card purchases. Conversely, there are certain countries in which surcharging is specifically permitted, such as Australia and certain countries in the European Union. In addition, the settlement by MasterCard and Visa in a U.S. merchant class
litigation (which has been given preliminary, but not final, approval by the trial court) requires, among other things, MasterCard and Visa to permit U.S. merchants, subject to certain conditions, to surcharge credit cards, while allowing them to
continue to prohibit surcharges on debit card transactions. Our Card acceptance agreements with merchants generally do not prohibit merchants from surcharging our Cardmembers. However, where permitted by local law, our Card acceptance agreements
generally include a provision under which the merchant agrees not to discriminate against the Card, such as by surcharging higher amounts on purchases with the Card than on purchases with any other cards the merchant accepts or by imposing a
surcharge only on Card purchases, but not on purchases made with other cards. American Express does not prohibit merchants from offering discounts to customers who pay with cash, check or inter-bank transfers (i.e., Automated Clearing House or
 ACH ). In addition, American Express does not prohibit U.S. merchants from offering discounts or in-kind incentives to customers who pay with particular forms of payment in accordance with the provisions of Dodd-Frank. For information on
the potential impacts of surcharging on our business, see   An increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations   in  Risk Factors  below.   
   Enhancing Merchant Satisfaction       GMS is focused on understanding and addressing factors that influence merchant satisfaction, including developing and executing programs that increase Card usage at merchants, using technology resources
and innovative marketing tools such as social media and applying our closed-loop capabilities and deep marketing expertise. In the United States, we also offer our merchants a full range of point-of-sale solutions, including integrated point-of-sale
terminals, software, online solutions and direct links that allow merchants to accept American Express Cards (as well as credit and debit cards issued on other networks and checks). Virtually all proprietary point-of-sale solutions support direct
processing (i.e., direct connectivity) to American Express, which can lower a merchant s cost of Card acceptance and enhance payment efficiency.      In 2012, we continued to connect merchants and Cardmembers via our Card Sync platform and Smart Offer APIs, launching  Sync, Tweet, Save  with Twitter for U.S. Cardmembers and  Sync,
Unlock, Score  with the online entertainment service from Microsoft, Xbox LIVE, for Cardmembers in the United States and the United Kingdom. We also launched offers via foursquare in the United Kingdom and My Offers in the United States, a
mobile offer engine that recommends and ranks relevant merchant offers in real time for U.S. Cardmembers based on their individual  spend graphs.  A pilot of My Offers on the American Express iPhone app made available local offers for
Cardmembers in Los Angeles and New York City and certain offers for Cardmembers nationwide.      We offer fraud prevention
services to merchants for transactions on the American Express network, and our subsidiary, Accertify Inc., which we acquired in November 2010, is a leading provider of solutions that help merchants combat fraudulent online and other
card-not-present transactions. Accertify provides a hosted software application that offers an extra level of security for transactions on any of the major payment networks, including American Express, Visa, MasterCard, Discover and PayPal, or using
any other alternative payment method. Accertify also offers merchants the option to outsource their end-to-end fraud management process to Accertify and provides other value-added services.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

   We also offer Merchant Financing, a set of financing products that provides qualified
merchants with access to a convenient source of financing for their business needs through their relationship with American Express. The financing offered is a commercial loan, which is repaid automatically through the merchant s daily Charge
submissions and accompanied by low fixed fees.      Our closed-loop network and relationships allow us to analyze merchant data
and information on Cardmember spending. This enables us to offer a range of targeted marketing services, network capabilities and special offers for the benefit of merchants and Cardmembers through a variety of channels. At the same time, we protect
the confidentiality of Cardmember information, including information on Cardmember spending, in compliance with our privacy, data protection, information security and firewall policies, applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security
Laws, and antitrust and other applicable legal requirements. We also work closely with our Card-issuing and merchant-acquiring partners to maintain the information that supports key elements of this closed loop, providing value to Cardmembers and
merchants.      We continue to focus our efforts in areas that make use and acceptance of the Card more secure and convenient for
merchants and Cardmembers. We participate in standard-setting bodies, such as EMVCo, GlobalPlatform and PCI Security Standards Council, LLC, designed to help drive secure and interoperable payments globally. Our goal is to make it easier for
merchants to accept our Cards, for Cardmembers to have seamless experiences at the point of sale, and for issuers and acquirers that have more than one network relationship to have a uniform technology standard across their card products and
platforms, respectively. These efforts are particularly important as emerging technologies such as contactless cards and mobile phones move the payment industry increasingly away from mag-stripe transactions. For example, we offer a contactless
payment feature embedded in certain Cards, to provide a fast, easy-to-use alternative to cash, check, debit or other payment forms, particularly for making everyday purchases at merchants where speed and convenience are important.   
   Billing Disputes       As the merchant acquirer, we have certain exposures that arise if a billing dispute between a Cardmember and a merchant is settled in favor of the Cardmember. Drivers of this liability are returns in the
normal course of business, disputes over fraudulent Charges, the quality or non-delivery of goods and services, and billing errors. Typically, we offset the amount due to the Cardmember against payments for the merchant s current or future
Charge submissions. We can realize losses when a merchant s offsetting Charge submissions cease, such as when the merchant decides to no longer accept the Card or goes out of business. We actively monitor our merchant base to assess the risk of
this exposure. When appropriate, we will take action to reduce the net exposure to a given merchant by establishing reserves of Charge payable holdbacks from a merchant, lengthening the time between when the merchant submits a Charge for payment and
when we pay the merchant, requiring the merchant to secure a letter of credit or a parent company guarantee, or implementing other appropriate risk management tools. We also establish reserves on our balance sheet for these contingencies in
accordance with relevant accounting rules.       Global Network   Merchant Services Competition    
  Our global card network competes in the global payments industry with other card networks, including, among others, Visa, MasterCard,
Diners Club International (which is owned by Discover Financial Services), Discover (primarily in the United States) and JCB and China UnionPay (primarily in Asia). We are the fourth largest general-purpose card network on a global basis based on
purchase volume, behind Visa, MasterCard and China UnionPay. In addition to such networks, a range of companies globally, including merchant acquirers and processors and companies such as PayPal, carry out some activities similar to those performed
by our GMS and GNS businesses. No other single entity engages on a global basis in the full range of activities that are encompassed by our closed-loop business model.      The principal competitive factors that affect the network and merchant service businesses include:       

The number of Cards-in-force and amount of spending on these Cards      

The quantity and quality of the establishments where the Cards can be used      

The economic attractiveness to Card issuers and merchants of participating in the network      

The success of marketing and promotional campaigns          

Reputation and brand recognition      
         10   

Table of Contents  

The innovation and investment in systems, technology, product and service offerings, particularly in online and mobile commerce, including through
partnerships with leading companies in the digital space          

The quality of customer service          

The payments industry expertise and capabilities that can be provided to partners in areas such as customer servicing, loyalty and data analytics

The security of Cardmember and merchant information          

The impact of existing litigation, legislation and government regulation      

The cost of Card acceptance relative to the value provided         Another aspect of network competition is the recent emergence and rapid growth of alternative payment mechanisms and systems, which include aggregators (such as PayPal, Square and Amazon), wireless
payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), electronic wallet providers, prepaid systems and systems linked to payment cards, and bank transfer models.   
  New technologies, together with the portability provided by smartphones and tablets and evolving consumer behavior with social media and
networking, are rapidly changing the way people interact with each other and transact business all around the world. Traditional and non-traditional competitors such as mobile telecommunications companies and aggregators are working to deliver
digital and mobile payment services for both consumers and merchants. Although we estimate that we have the largest volume of online spending of any major card issuer, competition remains fierce for capturing and maintaining online spend in the
ever-increasing digital world, and alternative business models present a significant challenge. For example, unlike us, aggregators like PayPal have the ability to provide payment services to merchants for multiple payment networks. In addition, new
entrants to the digital payments space such as online, social media, telecommunications and technology companies represent additional competitive and potentially disintermediating factors in the card payment industry given the scale of their
customer relationships and large cash reserves and other resources available to develop new platforms and technologies, and their strategies to use payments as a tool to support other sources of revenue.   
  To the extent alternative payment mechanisms and systems, such as aggregators, continue to expand successfully, discount revenues and
potentially other revenues, as well as our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network, could be negatively impacted. In the United States, alternative payment vehicles that seek to redirect customers to payment systems based
on ACH continue to emerge and grow, merchants with recurring billing models actively seek to switch customers to payment through direct debits from bank accounts, and existing debit networks also continue to expand both on- and off-line and are
making efforts to develop online PIN functionality, which could further reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards online. For a further discussion of the competitive environment in the emerging payments area, see  Enterprise Growth
Group   Online and Mobile Payments   Competition  under  Corporate   Other  below.      Some of
our competitors have attempted to replicate our closed-loop functionality. Efforts by some card networks, payment providers and non-traditional competitors to replicate the closed loop reflect its continued value and the intensely competitive
environment in which we operate.      In some markets outside the United States, particularly in Asia, third-party processors and
some acquirers offer merchants the capability of converting payment card transactions from the local currency to the currency of the cardholder s residence (i.e., the cardholder s billing currency) at the point-of-sale, and submitting the
transaction in the cardholder s billing currency, thus bypassing the traditional foreign currency conversion process of the card network. This practice, known as  dynamic currency conversion,  reduces or eliminates revenue for card
issuers and card networks relating to the conversion of foreign charges to the cardholder s billing currency. This practice is still not widespread, and it remains uncertain whether its use will expand over time. Our policy generally requires
merchants to submit Charges and be paid in the currency of the country in which the transaction occurs, and we convert the transaction to the Cardmember s billing currency.   
  In addition to the discussion in this section, see   Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly
intense competition worldwide in the payments industry   in  Risk Factors  below for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

    Global Network   Merchant Services   Regulation    
  Local regulations governing the issuance of charge and credit cards have not been a significant factor impacting GNS  arrangements
with banks and qualifying financial institutions, because such banks and institutions generally are already authorized to issue general-purpose cards and, in the case of our IO arrangements, to operate merchant-acquiring businesses. Accordingly, our
GNS partners have generally not had difficulty obtaining appropriate government authorization in the countries in which we have chosen to enter into GNS arrangements. As a service provider to regulated U.S. banks, our GNS business is subject to
review by certain federal bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ).   
  As the operator of a general-purpose card network, we are also subject to certain provisions of the Currency and Foreign Transactions
Reporting Act and the accompanying regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (collectively referred to as the  Bank Secrecy Act ), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the  Patriot Act ). We conduct due
diligence on our GNS partners to ensure that they have implemented and maintain sufficient anti-money laundering ( AML ) controls to prevent our network from being used for money laundering or terrorist financing purposes. As aggregators
add merchants to the American Express network, we have expanded our due diligence to review aggregators  AML and  know your customer  policies and controls, and retain the right to require termination of merchants  Card
acceptance under appropriate circumstances. As a result of American Express Company and TRS each being bank holding companies, our business is also subject to further regulation and regulatory oversight by the Federal Reserve. For additional
information about our regulatory status, see  Supervision and Regulation  below.      Over the last decade, regulators
in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers on certain card networks and the fees merchants are charged for card acceptance.
Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Hungary, the European Union, Australia, Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela, among others, have conducted investigations that are either ongoing, concluded or on appeal.
     The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in
 four-party  payment networks, like Visa and MasterCard, is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge payable by merchants for debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express
network does not have such interchange fees. For this reason, as well as the fact that Visa and MasterCard are the dominant card networks, the regulators  focus has primarily been on these networks. For example, in December 2007 the European
Commission ( EC ) ruled that MasterCard s multilateral interchange fees ( MIF ) for cross-border payment card transactions violate EC Treaty rules on restrictive business practices, which was upheld by the European General
Court in 2012. In 2008, the EC opened formal antitrust proceedings against Visa Europe Limited in relation to Visa s MIFs for cross-border consumer card transactions within Europe, and in 2010, the EC accepted Visa Europe s pledge to cut
its cross-border debit card MIF to 20 basis points for four years. While American Express was not a party to the MasterCard and Visa proceedings, antitrust actions and government regulation relating to merchant pricing could ultimately affect all
networks. Among other things, lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue from consumers such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling
back or eliminating rewards programs.      In the United States, Dodd-Frank gave the Federal Reserve the authority to establish
rules regarding interchange fees charged by payment card issuers for electronic debit transactions (which include transactions using a debit card or general-use prepaid card) and to enforce a statutory requirement that such fees be  reasonable
and proportional  to the cost of a transaction to the issuer, with specific allowances for the costs of fraud prevention, as well as to prohibit exclusive network routing restrictions for electronic debit transactions. Reloadable general-use
prepaid cards (but not those marketed or labeled as gift cards or gift certificates) are exempt from the interchange fee limitations provided they meet certain requirements, although all prepaid cards are subject to the exclusive network routing
restrictions for electronic debit transactions. The Federal Reserve s rule provides that the regulations on interchange and routing do not apply to a three-party network like American Express when it acts as both the issuer and the network for
its prepaid cards, and is therefore not a  payment card network  as that term is defined and used for the specific purposes of the rule. As a result, American Express is not subject to this rule with regard to the prepaid cards it issues.
In addition to the discussion in this section, see   The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition   in
 Risk Factors  below for further discussion of the potential impact resulting from the implementation of the Federal Reserve s rule.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

   Additionally, Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from restricting merchants from
offering discounts or incentives to encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such as cash, check, credit or debit card, provided that such offers do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer. Further, to the extent
required by federal law or applicable state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed. Dodd-Frank also permits U.S. merchants to establish minimum purchase amounts
of no more than $10 for credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not discriminate between networks or issuers. Federal government agencies and institutions of higher learning are also permitted to establish maximum amounts for credit
card purchases provided they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. As a result of Dodd-Frank, customers may be incentivized by merchants to move away from the use of charge and credit card products to other forms of payment with lower
costs and interchange fees, such as debit cards, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.      In certain
countries where antitrust actions or regulations have led our competitors to lower their fees, we have made adjustments to our pricing to merchants to reflect local competitive trends. For example, reductions in bankcard interchange mandated by the
Reserve Bank of Australia in 2003 resulted in lower merchant discount rates for Visa and MasterCard acceptance. As a result of these regulation-driven changes in the marketplace, we reduced our own merchant discount rates in Australia over time,
although we have been able to increase billed business and the number of merchants accepting our Cards. We have seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on our Cards in Australia in certain industries and, in some cases, on a basis that
is greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks. In June 2012, the Reserve Bank of Australia announced changes to the Australian surcharging standards that will come into force on March 18, 2013, which will allow us and
other networks to limit a merchant s right to surcharge to  the reasonable cost of card acceptance.  This could lead to an increase in higher surcharges on American Express Cards.   
  In recent years, national parliaments in Hungary, Italy and France have sought to enact caps on interchange fees or point-of-sale service
charges without government sponsorship for these measures. Although such legislation has been or may be either repealed or struck down on procedural grounds, it is possible there may be further attempts to enact regulation of merchant fees or
interchange with direct or indirect impacts on American Express.      In January 2012, the EC published a Green Paper (a document
to stimulate debate and begin a process of consultation) entitled  Towards an Integrated European Market for Card, Internet and Mobile Payments.  The area of focus covers a range of issues affecting the payments industry, including
interchange fees, non-discrimination and honor-all-cards rules and contract provisions, surcharging, separation of processing from card network management, perceived barriers to cross-border acquiring, mobile payments and technical standardization.
The EC has completed a consultation period and is expected to issue its preliminary conclusions in early 2013. These conclusions may involve proposals for regulation or recommendations for self-regulation and could take up to 18-24 months to adopt
and implement.      In the last few years, the Member States of the European Economic Area implemented a new legislative framework
for electronic payment services, including cards, called the European Directive 2007/64/EC on payment services. This directive, commonly referred to as the Payment Services Directive ( PSD ), prescribes common rules for licensing and
supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business with customers. The objective of the PSD is to facilitate the operation of a single internal payments market in the EU
through harmonization of EU Member State laws governing payment services. One provision of the PSD permits merchants to surcharge, subject to disclosure requirements, but also allows individual Member States to override this rule by prohibiting or
limiting surcharging. To date, the Member States of the European Economic Area are split on whether they prohibit or permit surcharging, with countries such as the United Kingdom (which for a number of years has permitted it for credit card
purchases), the Netherlands and Spain permitting it, in some cases within limits, and other countries such as France, Italy and Sweden prohibiting it. All Member States permit merchants to offer discounts for particular forms of payment. In 2012,
the EC commenced a review of the PSD, and its recommendations are expected in early 2013 together with the outcome of the Green Paper consultation discussed above. The PSD complements another European initiative, the Single Euro Payments Area
( SEPA ), which is an industry-led initiative with support from EU institutions. Among other changes, SEPA involves the adoption of new, pan-European technical standards for cards and card transactions. Compliance with the PSD, SEPA and
related requirements has involved significant costs to implement and maintain. In addition, the Consumer Rights Directive, which was adopted by the EU Council of Ministers in October 2011, will prohibit merchants from surcharging card purchases more
than the merchants  cost of acceptance in those Member States that permit surcharging pursuant to the PSD. The Consumer Rights Directive provides no guidance to merchants on how to assess the cost of acceptance or take into account the relative
value of different payment methods. A cost-based limit on surcharging could result in merchants   
         13   

Table of Contents  

imposing higher surcharges on American Express transactions if, in the absence of clear guidance, merchants take the position that the cost of American Express acceptance is higher than other
payment cards. The Member States have until the end of 2013 to adopt this legislation.      In 2010, the Canadian Competition
Bureau commenced a proceeding against Visa and MasterCard under the price maintenance provisions of the Canadian Competition Act seeking a remedial order prohibiting Visa and MasterCard from entering into, enforcing or imposing terms that restrain
merchants from certain business practices, including encouraging use of lower cost methods of payment and discouraging use of credit cards with higher card acceptance fees, declining acceptance of certain credit cards and surcharging customers who
use Visa and MasterCard credit cards. Hearings were held in June 2012 and a decision of the Canadian Competition Tribunal is pending. While the Competition Bureau did not name American Express in its proceeding, this action evidences the strong
regulatory and judicial focus on this area, which could have indirect implications for American Express.      Governments in some
countries provide resources or protection to select domestic payment card networks. Such support could keep us from entering these countries, to force us to leave or to restrict substantially our activities there, which could adversely affect our
ability to maintain or increase our revenues and extend our global network. For example, the government of China continues to maintain regulations that substantially favor China UnionPay, the dominant retail payments network in the Chinese domestic
market. A recent decision of the World Trade Organization on this issue may lead to the further opening of the payments systems in China, although there can be no assurance as to the extent or pace of change.   
  In some countries in Asia, governments have established regulatory regimes that require international card networks to be locally
licensed and/or to localize aspects of their operations. For example, card network operators in India must obtain authorization from the Reserve Bank of India, which has broad power under the Payment and Settlement Systems Act 2007 to regulate the
membership and operations of card networks. In Indonesia, bank regulations require participants in a card payment and settlement business to obtain a license and establish a local legal entity. Requirements to process transactions locally have been
proposed in Thailand and introduced in Taiwan. The development and enforcement of official regulatory policy under these and other similar laws and regulations in international markets may adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our
revenues and extend our global network.         U.S. CARD SERVICES    
  As a significant part of our proprietary Card-issuing business, our U.S. banking subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, issue a
wide range of Card products and services to consumers and small businesses in the United States. Our consumer travel business, which provides travel services to Cardmembers and other consumers, complements our core Card business, as does our Global
Payment Options business, which is described under  Corporate   Other  below.      The proprietary Card
business offers a broad set of Card products to attract our target customer base. As we continue to focus on premium products, the Company s priority will be to drive billed business and average spend per card rather than achieve broad growth
in Cards-in-force. Core elements of our strategy are:       

Focusing on acquiring and retaining high-spending, creditworthy Cardmembers      

Designing Card products with features that appeal to traditional and newer customer segments      

Using strong incentives to drive spending on our various Card products and generate loyal customers, including our Membership Rewards      program and other rewards features      

Using loyalty programs such as Delta SkyMiles, sponsored by our co-brand and other partners, to drive spending      

Developing and nurturing wide-ranging relationships with co-brand and other partners      

Promoting and using incentives for Cardmembers to use their Cards in new and expanded merchant categories, including everyday spend and traditional
cash and check categories          

Providing solutions to support the everyday business operations of our small business customers      

Providing exceptional customer service          

Providing opportunities to drive spending and loyalty programs in digital channels      
         14   

Table of Contents  

   In August 2012, J.D. Power and Associates released its annual nationwide credit card
satisfaction study and ranked American Express #1 in overall customer satisfaction among the top 10 largest card issuers in the United States, for the sixth consecutive year.       Consumer and Small Business Services    
  We offer individual consumer charge Cards such as the American Express      Card, the American Express      Gold Card, the Platinum Card     
and the Centurion      Card, as well as small business charge Cards. We also offer revolving credit Cards such as
Blue from American Express     , the Blue Cash      Everyday Card from American Express, Blue Sky from American Express      and, for small businesses, Blue for
Business      Credit Card and SimplyCash      Business Card. In addition, we offer a variety of Cards sponsored by and co-branded with other corporations and institutions for consumers and small businesses, such
as the Delta SkyMiles      Credit Card from American Express, TrueEarnings      Card exclusively for Costco members, Starwood Preferred Guest      Credit Card, JetBlue Card from American Express and Lowe s Business Rewards Card. For the year ended December 31, 2012, billed business from charge Cards
comprised 58% of total U.S. Card Services billed business. We also offer deposit products directly to consumers through American Express Personal Savings.       Centurion Bank and AEBFSB as Issuers of Certain Cards and Deposit Products       We have two U.S. banking subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, which are both FDIC-insured depository institutions and wholly owned subsidiaries of TRS. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are regulated,
supervised and examined by their respective banking regulators, identified in the table below. In addition, Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and their affiliates, including the Company and TRS, are subject to supervision, examination and enforcement by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the  CFPB ) with respect to our marketing and sale of consumer financial products and our compliance with certain federal consumer financial laws, including, among other laws, the Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010 (the  CFPA ) and the Truth in Lending Act ( TILA ). Both banks take steps to maintain compliance programs to address the various safety and soundness, internal control and compliance requirements, including
AML requirements and consumer protection laws that apply to them. A further discussion of the AML initiatives affecting us can be found under  Supervision and Regulation  below.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

   Certain additional information regarding each bank is set forth in the table below:

Centurion Bank   
     
   AEBFSB    
 
   Type of Bank   
     
  Utah-chartered industrial bank  
     
  Federal savings bank   
 
   Regulatory Supervision   
     
    Regulated, supervised and regularly examined by the Utah
Department of Financial Institutions ( UDFI ) and the FDIC      
  Subject to supervision, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to marketing and sale of consumer financial products and compliance with
federal consumer financial laws   
     
    Regulated, supervised and regularly examined
by the OCC, an independent bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury      
  Subject to supervision, examination and enforcement by the CFPB with respect to marketing and sale of consumer financial products and compliance with
federal consumer financial laws    
 
   Types of cards issued   
     
      Consumer
credit Cards           Consumer
charge Cards (including co-brand charge Cards)   

Consumer credit Cards (including all co-brand credit Cards)  
        Consumer charge Cards (including
co-brand charge Cards)      
    All OPEN    credit Cards
and charge Cards    
 
   Card marketing methods   
     
  Primarily direct mail, online and other remote marketing channels  

Direct mail, online and other remote marketing channels  
        In-person marketing, including
by third-party co-brand partners    
 
   Deposit Programs   
     
  Deposits obtained only through third-party brokerage channels  
     
  Deposits obtained through third-party brokerage channels and accepted directly from
consumers   
 
   Risk-based capital adequacy requirements, based on Tier 1
risk-based capital, total risk-based capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios at December 31, 2012*   
     
  Well capitalized  
     
  Well capitalized   

*  
  The risk-based capital standards for both the FDIC and OCC are substantively identical. Currently, a bank generally is deemed to be well capitalized if it maintains a
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. For further discussion regarding capital adequacy, including changes to capital adequacy rules, see
 Financial Holding Company Status and Activities   Capital Adequacy  under  Supervision and Regulation  below.         Charge Cards       Our charge Cards, which generally carry no
preset spending limits, are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing purchases of goods or services. Charges are approved based on a variety of factors including a Cardmember s current spending patterns, payment
history, credit record and financial resources. Cardmembers generally must pay the full amount billed each month. Charge Card accounts that are past due are subject, in most cases, to a delinquency assessment and, if not brought to current status,
may be cancelled. The no-preset spending limit and pay-in-full nature of these products attract high-spending Cardmembers.      The charge Cards also offer several ways for eligible U.S. Cardmembers to pay off certain of their purchases over time. The Sign   Travel      feature permits eligible U.S. Cardmembers to extend payment for airline tickets, cruise ship tickets and other travel items purchased with our charge Cards. The
Extended Payment Option provides eligible U.S. Cardmembers the ability to extend payment for eligible Charges above a certain dollar amount.       Revolving Credit Cards       We offer a
variety of revolving credit Cards. These Cards have a range of different payment terms, interest rate and fee structures, rewards programs, and Cardmember benefits. Revolving credit Card products, such as Blue from American Express     , the Blue Cash Everyday      Card from American Express, Blue Sky from American Express      and Blue for Business      Card,
provide Cardmembers with the flexibility to pay their bill in full each month or carry a monthly balance on their Cards to finance the purchase of goods or services. Along with charge Cards and co-brand Cards, these revolving credit Cards attract
affluent Cardmembers and promote increased relevance for our expanding merchant network.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

    Co-brand Cards    
  We issue Cards under co-brand agreements with selected commercial firms in the United States. The competition among card issuers and
networks for attractive co-brand card partnerships is quite intense because these partnerships can generate high-spending loyal cardholders. The duration of our co-brand arrangements generally ranges from four to ten years. Cardmembers earn rewards
provided by the partners  respective loyalty programs based upon their spending on the co-brand Cards, such as frequent flyer miles, hotel loyalty points and cash back. We make payments to our co-brand partners, which can be significant, based
primarily on the amount of Cardmember spending and corresponding rewards earned on such spending and, under certain arrangements, on the number of accounts acquired and retained. We expense amounts due under co-brand arrangements in the month
earned. Payment terms vary by arrangement, but are monthly or quarterly. In some cases, the partner is solely liable for providing rewards to the Cardmember under the co-brand partner s own loyalty program. As the issuer of the co-brand Card,
we retain all the credit risk with the Cardmember and bear the receivables funding and operating expenses for such Cards. The co-brand partner retains the risk associated with the miles points, or other currency earned by the Cardmember under the
partner s loyalty program.      During 2012, we launched two new co-branded Cards: The Morgan Stanley
Credit Card from American Express and The Platinum Card      from American Express exclusively for Morgan Stanley.
The new Cards offer exclusive benefits for Morgan Stanley clients with eligible brokerage accounts.       Card Pricing and
Account Management       On certain Cards we charge an annual fee that varies based on the type of Card and the number of Cards
for each account. We also offer many revolving credit Cards on which we assess finance charges for revolving balances. Depending on the product, we may also charge Cardmembers an annual program fee to participate in the Membership Rewards programs
and fees for account performance (e.g., late fees) or for certain optional services (e.g., Travel Insurance). We apply standards and criteria for creditworthiness to each Cardmember through a variety of means both at the time of initial solicitation
or application and on an ongoing basis during the Card relationship. We use sophisticated credit models and techniques in our risk management operations. For a further description of our risk management policies, see  Risk Management 
beginning on page 37 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.       Membership Rewards      Program
      The Membership Rewards program from American Express allows Cardmembers to earn one point for virtually every dollar
charged on eligible, enrolled American Express Cards, and then redeem points for a wide array of rewards, including travel, retail merchandise, dining and entertainment, financial services and even donations to benefit charities. A significant
portion of our Cards by their terms allow Cardmembers to earn bonus points for purchases at merchants in particular industry categories. Points generally have no expiration date and there is no limit on the number of points one can earn. A large
majority of spending by eligible Cardmembers earns points under this program.      The U.S. Membership
Rewards program has over 150 redemption partners and access to thousands of merchandise brands. Membership Rewards program tiers are aligned with specific Card products to better meet Cardmember lifestyle and reward program usage needs. American
Express Cardmembers participate in one of three Membership Rewards program tiers based on the credit or charge Card they have in their wallet. For those Cardmembers with American Express Cards, such as Blue from American Express and Blue for
Business, we have the Membership Rewards Express      program. American Express charge Cardmembers with American
Express Green and Gold Cards have the Membership Rewards program. Platinum Card      members and Centurion      Cardmembers are enrolled in the Membership Rewards First      program.      We believe our Membership Rewards
point bank is a substantial asset and a competitive advantage. We continue to evolve Membership Rewards as a virtual currency. For example, Cardmembers increasingly use our Pay with Points program including to make purchases at Amazon.com and for
airline tickets and other travel categories, as well as to pay for their annual membership fee.      During 2012, we launched a
number of new redemption partnerships, including a new points transfer partnership with Asia Miles, through which Cardmembers can redeem for flight awards on 21 airlines, including Cathay Pacific Airways, and
  
         17   

Table of Contents  

a new rewards partnership with One Kings Lane, allowing Cardmembers to redeem their points for gift cards to purchase furniture, accessories, gifts and other items for the home on the daily deal
site. Additionally, we broadened our Facebook rewards partnership, allowing Cardmembers to redeem their Membership Rewards points across a wide range of Facebook gaming applications. We also launched Mobile Gift Cards, which allows Cardmembers to
use Membership Rewards points for mobile phone-enabled gift cards of select retailers and use them instantly via smartphone at the point-of-sale.      When a Cardmember enrolled in the Membership Rewards program uses the Card, we establish reserves to cover the cost of estimated future reward redemptions for points earned to date. When a Membership
Rewards program enrollee redeems a reward using Membership Rewards points, we make a payment to the Membership Rewards program partner providing the reward pursuant to contractual arrangements. Membership Rewards expense is driven by Cardmember
Charge volume, customer participation in the program and contractual arrangements with redemption partners. For more information on our Membership Rewards program, see  Critical Accounting Estimates   Liability for Membership Rewards
Expense  appearing on page 18 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      Membership Rewards continues to be an important driver of Cardmember spending and loyalty. We believe, based on historical experience, Cardmembers enrolled in rewards programs yield higher spend, stronger
credit performance and greater profit for us. By offering a broader range of redemption choices, we have given our Cardmembers more flexibility in the use of their rewards points and favorably affected our average cost per point. We continually seek
to optimize the overall economics of the program and make changes to enhance its value to Cardmembers and to merchants. Our program is also valuable to merchants that become redemption partners as we bring them high-spending Cardmembers and new
marketing channels to reach these Cardmembers.       Cardmember Special Services and Programs    
  Throughout the world, our Cardmembers have access to a variety of fee-free and fee-based special services and programs, depending on the
type of Cards they have. Examples of these special services and programs include:       

Membership Rewards      program   
      
         Event Ticket Protection Plan    
 
         Global Assist      Hotline   
      
         Automatic Flight Insurance    
 
         Car Rental Loss and Damage Insurance   
      
         Premium Baggage Protection    
 
         Extended Warranty   
      
         American Express      Travel Insurance    
 
         Purchase Protection   
      
         CreditSecure         
 
         Return Protection   
      
         Roadside Assistance    
 
         Emergency Card Replacement   
      
         Advance Ticket Sales    
 
         Manage Your Card Account Online   
      
         Exclusive Access to Cardmember Events    
 
         Online Year-End Summary   
      
         Business Platinum Office Program    
    As part of our effort to deliver additional value for existing Cardmembers and to
attract new high-spending customers to American Express, we added the EMV chip and signature functionality to the Platinum
Card      and Centurion      Card in 2012 to provide our consumer and
OPEN      Cardmembers with improved convenience while traveling abroad. We also continued to roll out digital
innovations in 2012, with the launch of My Offers, the mobile offer engine discussed in  Global Merchant Services  under  Global Network   Merchant Services  above.   
   OPEN    
  In addition to our U.S. Consumer Card business, through AEBFSB we are also a leading payment card issuer for small businesses (generally,
firms with fewer than 100 employees and/or annual sales up to $10 million). American Express OPEN ( OPEN ) offers small business owners a wide range of tools, services and savings designed to meet their evolving payment and business needs,
including:       

charge and credit Cards          

rewards on eligible spend and business-relevant rewards redemption options      

travel and concierge services          

business, retail and travel protections such as employee card misuse protection, purchase protection and baggage insurance
     
         18   

Table of Contents  

up to 10% discounts at select suppliers of travel, business services and products through OPEN
Savings               

expense management tools and reporting          

online account management capabilities          

proprietary and third-party business solutions to support everyday business operations such as business travel and international payments

resources to help grow and manage a business through the award-winning community-driven Web site, OPEN Forum               

client managers for our top-spending clients to support business growth      
  In 2012, we continued to enhance our small business offerings by launching an enhanced Plum Card      that provides more payment flexibility for small businesses.   
  In addition to the products and services outlined above, OPEN engages in advocacy efforts on behalf of U.S. small
businesses. These advocacy efforts include our Victory in Procurement program to help small businesses obtain government contracts, programs designed to help women entrepreneurs create, grow and sustain businesses, and our efforts to increase
awareness of the importance of small businesses in our communities generally. For example, in 2012, we led the third Small Business Saturday     , a day to increase consumer awareness and patronage of local businesses and their role in the economy and local neighborhoods.   
   Card-Issuing Business   Competition       Our proprietary Card business encounters substantial and intense competition in the United States and internationally. As a card issuer, we compete in the United States with financial institutions that
issue general-purpose charge and revolving credit cards (such as Bank of America, Capital One Financial, Citibank and JPMorgan Chase) and Discover Financial Services, which issues the Discover card on the Discover network. We also encounter
competition from businesses that issue their own cards or otherwise extend credit to their customers, such as retailers and airline associations, although these cards are generally accepted only at limited locations. In recent years, we have faced
increasingly intense competition in the small business sector, as competitors have targeted OPEN s customer base and our leadership position in providing financial services and other fee-based solutions to small businesses.   
  The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through
their retail branch networks. Competing card issuers offer a variety of products and services to attract cardholders, including premium cards with enhanced services or lines of credit, airline frequent flyer program mileage credits, cash rebates and
other reward or rebate programs, services for small business owners,  teaser  promotional interest rates for both credit card acquisition and balance transfers, and co-branded arrangements with partners that offer benefits to cardholders.
     Most financial institutions that offer demand deposit accounts also issue debit cards to permit depositors to access their
funds. Use of debit cards for point-of-sale purchases has grown as most financial institutions have replaced ATM cards with general-purpose debit cards bearing either the Visa or MasterCard logo. Debit cards were historically marketed as
replacements for cash and checks, and transactions made with debit cards have typically been for smaller dollar amounts. However, debit cards are increasingly perceived as an alternative to credit or charge cards and used in that manner.
Additionally, overdraft accounts can be used by our competitors to extend credit to customers when transaction values exceed monies available in a linked demand deposit account.   
  As the payments industry continues to evolve, we are also facing increasing competition from non-traditional players, such as online
networks, telecom providers and software-as-a-service providers, that leverage new technologies and customers  existing charge and credit card accounts and bank relationships to create payment or other fee-based solutions. In addition, the
evolution of payment products in emerging markets may be different than it has been in developed markets. Instead of migrating from cash to checks to plastic, technology and consumer behaviors in these markets may result in the skipping of one or
more steps to alternative payment mechanisms such as mobile payments. For a further discussion of the evolving competitive landscape in the payments industry, see  Global Network   Merchant Services   Competition  under
 Global Network   Merchant Services  above and  Enterprise Growth Group   Online and Mobile Payments   Competition  under  Corporate   Other  below.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

   The principal competitive factors that affect the card-issuing business include:   

The features and quality of the services, including customer care, rewards programs and digital resources, provided to Cardmembers

The number, spending characteristics and credit performance of Cardmembers      

The quantity, diversity and quality of the establishments that accept Cards      

The cost of Cards and Cardmember services          

The pricing, payment and other Card account terms and conditions      

The number and quality of other payment cards and other forms of payment, such as debit cards and electronic wallets, available to Cardmembers

Reputation and brand recognition          

The level and effectiveness of advertising investments and marketing and promotional campaigns      

The nature and quality of expense management data capture and reporting capability, particularly for small businesses      

The ability to manage credit and interest rate risk throughout the economic cycle and implement operational and cost efficiencies
          In addition to the discussion in this section, see   Our operating results may suffer because
of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry   in  Risk Factors  below for further discussion of the potential impact of competition on our business.     
   Financing Activities       The Company meets its financing needs through a variety of sources, including cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash, direct and third-party sourced deposits, unsecured medium- and
long-term notes, asset securitizations, securitized borrowings through a secured financing facility, and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities in certain non-U.S. markets.   
  American Express Credit Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of TRS, along with its subsidiaries (collectively,  Credco )
acquires or finances the majority of charge Card receivables arising from the use of corporate Cards issued in the United States and consumer and corporate Cards issued in certain currencies outside the United States. Credco funds the acquisition or
financing of receivables principally through the sale of medium- and long-term notes. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB finance their revolving credit receivables and consumer and small business charge card receivables, in part, through the sale of
medium-term notes and by accepting consumer deposits in the United States. TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB also fund receivables through asset securitization programs. The cost of funding Cardmember receivables and loans is a major expense of Card
operations.      There is a discussion of our securitization and other financing activities on pages 31-35 under the caption
 Financial Review,  and Note 7 on page 80 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which portions we incorporate herein by reference. In addition, see   Difficult conditions in the business and economic environment, as well
as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations   and   Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet
liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital   in  Risk Factors  below.       Deposit Programs
      Centurion Bank and AEBFSB accept deposits from individuals through third-party brokerage networks, and AEBFSB accepts
deposits directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings, a set of deposit products, including High-Yield Savings and Certificate of Deposit accounts. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $39.7 billion in total U.S.
retail deposits. Our deposit-taking activities compete with those of other deposit-taking organizations that source deposits through telephone, Internet and other electronic delivery channels, brokerage networks and/or branch locations. We compete
primarily in the deposit sector on the basis of rates and our brand and its attributes.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

   Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits is
dependent on the capital levels of our U.S. banking subsidiaries. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act ( FDIA ) generally prohibits a bank, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on
any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless (1) it is well capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a
waiver from the FDIC. A bank that is less than well capitalized generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC unless the
FDIC determines that the bank is operating in a high-rate area. An adequately capitalized insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been granted a waiver of this prohibition
by the FDIC. Undercapitalized depository institutions may not solicit deposits by offering interest rates that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in such institution s normal market areas or in
the market area in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance provision within a written agreement, consent order,
order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). If a depository institution s federal regulator determines that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or is
engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, the regulator may reclassify a well capitalized institution as adequately capitalized, require an adequately capitalized institution to comply with certain restrictions as if it were undercapitalized,
or require an undercapitalized institution to take certain actions applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions, all of which would adversely impact the institution s ability to accept brokered deposits.   
   Card-Issuing Business and Deposit Programs   Regulation    
  Our charge card, consumer lending and deposit operations are subject to extensive regulation. In the United States, we are subject to a
number of federal laws and regulations, including:       

The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (which generally prohibits discrimination in the granting and handling of credit)      

The Fair Credit Reporting Act ( FCRA ), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act ( FACT Act ) (which, among
other things, regulates use by creditors of consumer credit reports and credit prescreening practices and requires certain disclosures when an application for credit is rejected)      

The Truth in Lending Act (which, among other things, requires extensive disclosure of the terms upon which credit is granted), including the amendments
to TILA that were adopted through the enactment of the Fair Credit and Charge Card Disclosure Act (which mandates certain disclosures on credit and charge card applications)      

The Fair Credit Billing Act (which, among other things, regulates the manner in which billing inquiries are handled and specifies certain billing
requirements)          

The Truth in Savings Act (which requires certain disclosures about rates paid and other terms of deposit accounts)      

The Electronic Funds Transfer Act (which, among other things, governs disclosures and settlement of transactions for electronic funds transfers and
customer rights and liability arising from the use of ATMs and other electronic banking services and, after the enactment of Dodd-Frank, imposes a cap on debit card interchange fees and prohibits exclusivity arrangements for payment card networks)

The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the  CARD Act ) (which prohibits certain acts and practices in
connection with consumer credit card accounts)          

The CFPA (Title X of Dodd-Frank)          

The Telephone Consumer Protection Act (which prohibits contacting customers on their cellular telephones without their express consent, and provides
for significant statutory damages)          

Regulation Z (which implements TILA and was recently amended by the Federal Reserve to extensively revise the open end consumer credit disclosure
requirements and implement the requirements of the CARD Act)          

Federal and state laws and regulations that generally prohibit engaging in unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices ( UDAAP ) in
offering consumer financial products and services      
         21   

Table of Contents  

   In the United States, certain applicable federal and state Privacy, Data Protection and
Information Security Laws govern the collection, use, sharing and safeguarding of customer information by financial institutions, including certain requirements related to security breach notification. Other countries in which we operate, including
those in the European Union, also have certain applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws that govern the collection, use, sharing and safeguarding of customer information by financial institutions, in some cases more
stringent than the requirements in the United States. U.S. federal legislation also regulates abusive debt collection practices. In addition, a number of U.S. states, the European Union, and many foreign countries in which we operate have
significant consumer credit protection and disclosure laws (in certain cases more stringent than the laws of the United States). Bankruptcy and debtor relief laws affect us to the extent that such laws result in amounts owed being classified as
delinquent and/or charged off as uncollectible. As stated above, financial institutions, card issuers and card networks are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective
AML programs. For a discussion of these and other regulations and legislation that impact our business, see  Supervision and Regulation  below.      American Express Company and its subsidiaries, including in particular our U.S. banking subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, and our other banking subsidiaries, are subject to a variety of laws and
regulations applicable to financial institutions. Changes in such laws and regulations or in the regulatory application or judicial interpretation thereof could impact the manner in which we conduct our business and the costs of compliance. We
regularly review and, as appropriate, refine our business practices in light of existing and anticipated developments in laws, regulations and industry trends so we can continue to manage our business prudently and consistent with regulatory
requirements and expectations.      The regulatory environment in which we operate has become increasingly complex and robust, and
supervisory efforts to apply relevant laws, regulations and policies have become more intense. The ultimate impact of this heightened scrutiny is uncertain, but internal and regulatory reviews have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result
in, changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures. Such reviews are also likely to continue to result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination, additional restitution to Cardmembers and may result in
additional regulatory actions which could include civil money penalties. In July 2012, the CFPB issued an industry bulletin regarding its review of marketing practices with respect to credit card add-on products, including debt cancellation,
identity theft protection, credit reporting and monitoring, and other supplementary products. We are cooperating with regulators in their ongoing regulatory examinations of credit card add-on products. For information about ongoing reviews by
several bank regulators, including the CFPB, relating to certain aspects of the Company s U.S. consumer card practices, see  Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010  within  Supervision and Regulation  below.   
  In August 2010, AEBFSB entered into a public, written supervisory agreement with the Office of Thrift Supervision ( OTS ),
which was then its primary federal banking regulator, requiring AEBFSB to make certain enhancements to its compliance program and to complete certain corrective actions relating to compliance. This supervisory agreement continues to remain in effect
following the transfer of supervision of AEBFSB from the OTS to the OCC. In October 2012, we announced that we reached settlements with several bank regulators, including the Federal Reserve, FDIC, OCC, UDFI and CFPB, to resolve reviews of certain
aspects of our U.S. consumer card practices for compliance with certain consumer protection laws and regulations. Similar settlements were reached with several of our subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and TRS. The American Express
entities agreed to pay civil money penalties totaling $27.5 million, and we, through our subsidiaries, established a restricted fund pool totaling $85 million for customer refunds (subject to adjustment depending on the ultimate amount of the
refunds). The majority of those refunds is related to debt collection practices and late fee charges. For a further description of the settlements reached in October 2012, see  Legal Proceedings  below.   
  In January 2003, the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body composed of the principal U.S. federal
entities that regulate banks and other financial institutions, issued guidance to the industry on credit card account management and loss allowance practices (the  Guidance ). The Guidance covers five areas: (1) credit line
management; (2) over-limit practices; (3) minimum payment and negative amortization practices; (4) workout and forbearance practices; and (5) certain income (fee) recognition and loss allowance practices. Centurion Bank and
AEBFSB evaluate and discuss the Guidance with their respective regulators on an ongoing basis as part of their regulatory examination processes, and, as a result, may refine their practices from time to time based on regulatory input. The Guidance
has not had, nor do we expect it to have, any material impact on our businesses or practices.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

    American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network       
  The American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network provides travel, financial and Cardmember services to consumers
through American Express-owned travel service offices, call centers, the Consumer Travel Web site, and the American Express Representative Network (which consists of independently-owned travel agency locations that operate under the American Express
brand). American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network has distinguished itself in the luxury space through its Platinum Travel Services and Centurion      Travel Services, which service the needs of our premium Cardmembers and support the exclusive travel benefits that we provide for them. These exclusive travel
benefits include the International Airline Program, which offers an international first- and/or business-class companion ticket offer on qualifying tickets with 26 world-class airlines, and the Fine Hotels   Resorts program, which is a
luxury hotel program offering value-added amenities.      In addition, we operate a wholesale tour operator business in the United
States through Travel Impressions, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TRS. As a tour operator, Travel Impressions secures inventory from suppliers such as airlines, hotels, auto rental companies and ground operators, which it then packages and sells to
consumers through travel agencies and travel agent consortia in the United States. Travel Impressions also manages and operates American Express Vacations, selling tour packages direct to consumers through the AmericanExpressVacations.com Web site,
which can be accessed through the Consumer Travel Web site and internationally through travel agents who work for the American Express international travel business. Travel Impressions is consistently recognized by its customers for outstanding
services, including being named Travel Weekly s  Best Tour Operator, Sales and Service,  for eight years in a row.      Our Consumer Travel Web site, amextravel.com, which is powered by Orbitz Worldwide, was redesigned and enhanced during 2012. The Web site offers a full range of travel rates and discounts on airfares,
hotels, car rentals, cruises and full vacation packages, with customer service for the Web site offered 24/7. The Web site also provides travel planning resources and, for American Express Cardmembers, benefits such as earning one extra Membership
Rewards      point when booking travel using a Card enrolled in the Membership Rewards program. In addition,
Cardmembers are able to Pay with Points by redeeming Membership Rewards points for some categories of travel through our Consumer Travel Web site, as well as through our call centers and American Express-owned travel service offices.   
   American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network   Competition    
  The American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network competes with a variety of different competitors including traditional  brick and
mortar  travel agents, credit card issuers offering products with significant travel benefits, online travel agents and travel suppliers that distribute their products directly via the Internet or telephone-based customer service centers. In
recent years we have experienced an increasing presence of  niche  players that are seeking to capitalize on the growth in the luxury travel segment by combining luxury travel offers with concierge-type services. The travel business is
broad with much overlap between consumer and business travel. For more information about the competitive environment in the travel business, see  Global Business Travel   Competition  under  Global Commercial Services 
below.       American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network   Regulation    
  The American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network is subject to domestic and international laws applicable to the provision of travel
services, including: licensure requirements; laws and regulations regarding passenger protections such as the Enhancing Airline Passenger Protections rule issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation; and laws and regulations regarding passenger
screening and registration such as the Secure Flight Rule issued by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration. Additionally, the American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network is subject to certain applicable U.S. state and federal Privacy,
Data Protection, and Information Security Laws, including certain requirements related to breach notification, and, as a result of American Express Company and TRS each being bank holding companies, our business is also subject to certain activity
restrictions under the BHC Act and certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective AML programs. For more information about the applicable activity restrictions under the BHC Act, see
 Supervision and Regulation  below.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

      INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES    
  We issue our charge and credit Cards in numerous countries around the globe. Our geographic scope is widespread and we focus primarily on
those countries that we believe offer us the greatest financial opportunity. For a discussion of Cards issued internationally through our GNS partner relationships, see  Global Network Services  above.   
  The Company continued to bolster its international proprietary Card business through the launch of numerous new or enhanced Card products
during 2012. These are Cards that we issue, either on our own or as co-brands with partnering institutions. In 2012, among other new proprietary products, we announced or launched several new co-branded products, including Aerolineas Argentinas in
Argentina and Jet Airways in India. We offer many of the same programs and services in our international proprietary Card-issuing business as we do in our U.S. proprietary issuing business. Also, as in the United States, we issue Cards
internationally under distribution agreements with financial services institutions. Another example of our distribution partnerships is affinity cards with fraternal, professional, educational and other organizations. For instance, we have been
successful in penetrating the affinity card segment in Australia, where we issue Cards with some of the largest professional associations in that country. In Australia, affinity cards are a substantial part of our consumer lending portfolio.
     As in the United States, the Membership Rewards      program is a strong driver of Cardmember spending in the international consumer business. We have more than 1,300 redemption partners across our international
business, with an average of approximately 58 partners in each country; approximately 25% of these partners are in the travel industry. Cardmembers can redeem their points with more than 30 airlines and 13 global hotel chains. Our redemption options
include travel, retail merchandise, entertainment, shopping and recreation gift certificates, experiences, financial services and charity rewards. In 2012, we continued to enhance our rewards programs in several countries, providing more flexibility
in the way Cardmembers can use their rewards points and upgrading digital capabilities to give Cardmembers access to rewards through mobile and online channels.   
  We continue to build on our strengths and look for further opportunities to increase our presence internationally.
In 2011, we acquired a controlling interest in Loyalty Partner, a leading marketing services company known for the loyalty programs it operates in Germany and Poland, and more recently in India and Mexico. This acquisition has furthered our strategy
to grow fee-based revenue, deepened our merchant relationships in select countries, added approximately 50 million consumers to our international customer base and expanded our range of rewards and loyalty marketing services. Loyalty Partner
builds merchant coalitions, such as its Payback      program, and offers loyalty cards good for discounts and
rewards at participating coalition partners. Merchants fund the consumer offers and are responsible for the accumulated loyalty points, and Loyalty Partner earns revenue from operating the loyalty platform and by providing marketing support. In
2012, we launched, through Loyalty Partner, the Payback program in Mexico, which utilizes digital offers and coupons, and is the first time Loyalty Partner has launched with an integrated American Express card product. Loyalty Partner also provides
market analysis, operating platforms and consulting services that help merchants grow their businesses. Using these services, merchants are able to run targeted and tailored campaigns across all available channels.   
  Membership Travel Services International provides premium travel and concierge services to our Platinum and
Centurion Cardmembers, through 25 exclusively dedicated call centers in 23 international countries. We deliver exclusively negotiated travel and lifestyle benefits to premium Cardmembers including the Fine Hotels   Resorts Program, American
Express      Vacations and American Express International Airline Program. In addition, we provide exclusive access
to events and airport lounge access to our premium Cardmembers.      We offer the flexibility of payment for travel and concierge
services by allowing International Consumer Cardmembers to use their Membership Rewards points to pay for their travel purchases in 15 countries outside the United States.       International Proprietary Consumer Card   Competition    
  Compared with the United States, consumers outside the United States use general-purpose charge and credit cards for a smaller percentage
of their total payments, with some large emerging market countries only just beginning to transition to card usage in any meaningful way. Although our geographic scope is widespread, we generally do not have significant share in the countries in
which we operate internationally. Our proprietary Card-issuing business is subject to competition from multinational banks, such as Banco Santander, Citibank and HSBC, as well as many local banks and financial institutions. We view Banco Santander
and Citibank as our strongest competitors on a global basis, as they currently offer card products in a large number of countries.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

    International Proprietary Consumer Card   Regulation    
  As discussed elsewhere in this report, regulators continued to propose and enact a variety of new regulatory changes to the payments
industry during the course of 2012.      In Europe, the EU continued in its efforts to work towards greater harmonization on a
number of fronts, in particular in relation to payments, the AML regime and data protection. The EU continues to sponsor initiatives in relation to the cross border issuing of credit, recurring transactions and the merger of the PSD and the E-Money
Directive. These pan-European initiatives have been supplemented by a broad range of consumer protection and transparency initiatives at an individual Member State level.      In countries outside Europe, we have seen regulators initiate new regulations in relation to a number of key themes, particularly responsible lending (such as Canada, New Zealand and Singapore), privacy
and data protection (such as Australia, Canada, Mexico and Singapore) and financial crime.      Regulators in a number of
countries are shifting their focus from just ensuring compliance with local rules and regulations towards paying greater attention to the product design and operation with a focus on customers and outcomes. Regulators  expectations of firms in
relation to their compliance, risk and control frameworks continue to increase and regulators are placing significant emphasis on a firm s systems and controls relating to the identification and resolution of issues.   
  We expect this activity to continue in 2013. We continue to evaluate our business planning in light of changing market circumstances and
the evolving political, economic, regulatory and media environment.         GLOBAL
COMMERCIAL SERVICES       In our Global Commercial Services ( GCS ) segment, we provide expense management and travel
services to companies and organizations worldwide through our Global Corporate Payments and Global Business Travel businesses. American Express is a leading provider of corporate payment solutions and a leading travel management company for
businesses worldwide. During 2012, we added or retained several major Global Corporate Payments clients in the United States and internationally, including AXA, DuPont, Sanofi, Beats Electronics, Phillips-Van Heusen and DeVry. Additionally, in 2012,
we added or retained several Global Business Travel clients in the United States and internationally, including LVMH, General Motors, EMC Corporation, Tyco and Air Products.      GCS offers a wide range of expense management and travel-related products and services to companies worldwide, including:       

A comprehensive offering of Corporate Card Programs, such as:      

Corporate Cards : issued to individuals through a corporate account established by their employer and that many business Cardmembers use to
manage travel and entertainment spending          

Corporate Meeting Cards : provided primarily to corporate meeting planners as a tool to help companies control their meetings and events expenses

Business Travel Accounts ( BTAs ) : centrally billed to and paid directly by corporate clients, BTAs are used by companies to pay for
their employees  travel expenses          

A suite of Business-to-Business (  B2B  ) Payment Solutions, including:      

Corporate Purchasing Card : an account established by companies to pay for everyday and large-ticket business expenses such as office and
computer supplies          

vPayment : offers companies single-use virtual account numbers for business-related purchases and permits the processing of transactions with
fraud controls          

Buyer-Initiated Payments ( BIP ) : an electronic solution for companies looking to automate their accounts payable processes
     
         25   

Table of Contents  

A variety of business travel-related products, services and solutions, including:      

Travel Services : online, offline and on-the-go travel offerings tailored to client needs      

Meetings   Events : a suite of solutions and tools to help organizations of all sizes gain control of and insight into their meetings
spend and help mitigate risk          

Advisory Services : a leading practice line offering tools and consulting to help companies maximize their travel program through compliance and
solution optimization          Global Corporate Payments    
  Global Corporate Payments ( GCP ) offers a range of payments and expense management solutions to companies worldwide through
our Corporate Card Programs and Business-to-Business Payment Solutions.       Corporate Card Programs    
  The American Express      Corporate Card is a charge card that individuals may obtain through a corporate account established by their employer for business purposes. Through our Corporate
Card Program, companies can manage their travel, entertainment and everyday business expenses and negotiate more effectively with suppliers, among other benefits. We use our direct relationships with merchants to offer Corporate Card clients
superior data about company spending, as well as streamlined dispute resolution. We issue local currency Corporate Cards in 44 countries and territories, and have international dollar/euro Corporate Cards available in 124 countries and territories.
We also offer Corporate Cards issued through our GNS partner relationships in an additional 32 countries and territories. In 2012, we launched BTA enhancements in Germany and Mexico. In addition, we upgraded the BTA capability globally to provide
improved transaction querying and faster reporting for our travel management company partners.      With the heightened focus on
cost containment, many companies are increasingly interested in our Corporate Meeting Card program which helps businesses control meeting-related expenses. It allows clients to capture meeting spending, simplify the payment process and gain access
to data that supports negotiations with suppliers.      American Express also partners with many other companies around the world
to offer a number of co-brand Corporate Cards in various countries. To date, American Express has 13 Corporate Card co-brand partnerships issued in 15 countries and territories. These products, typically suited for mid-sized companies (defined in
the United States as firms with annual revenues of $10 million to $1 billion worldwide), provide savings on everyday business spending and/or air travel. GCP is focused on continuing to expand its business with mid-sized companies, which
represent a significant growth opportunity. Businesses of this size often do not have a corporate card program; however, once enrolled, mid-sized companies typically put a significant portion of their business spending on the Corporate Card because
they can gain control, savings and employee benefits.      GCP offers the Savings at Work      Program to mid-sized companies in the United States, as well as similar programs globally, which provide companies
with cash back and/or discounted pricing on everyday business products and services, such as car rentals, hotels, restaurants and courier services. Corporate Cardmembers can also take advantage of our Membership Rewards program to earn points that
can be redeemed for air travel and hotel stays, as well as retail, home and recreation items. In select markets we also offer Corporate Membership Rewards that allows a company to earn points to redeem for enterprise-level rewards. Membership
Rewards is an effective tool for encouraging Corporate Card usage, leading to greater expense control and savings.   
   Business-to-Business Payment Solutions       We offer a series of Business-to-Business Payment Solutions to help companies manage B2B spending. These solutions provide a variety of benefits to companies, including cost savings, process efficiency,
improved cash flow and increased visibility, and control and security over business expenses. This type of spending by companies also helps to diversify our spend mix. The Corporate Purchasing Card helps large corporations and mid-sized companies
manage their everyday spending. It is used to pay for everyday goods and business expenses, such as office supplies, industrial supplies and business equipment. We issue local currency Corporate Purchasing Cards in 29 countries. We also offer
Corporate Purchasing Cards issued through our GNS partner relationships in an additional five countries.   
         26   

Table of Contents  

   vPayment, which offers companies single-use virtual account numbers, allows GCP clients to
make payments with enhanced controls, data capture and reconciliation capabilities. Charges are authorized for a specified amount during a designated amount of time. The solution automates reconciliation, eliminates manual check requests, interfaces
easily with a client s enterprise resource planning ( ERP ), procurement and accounts payable systems, and can be used at one or more stages of the procurement-to-payables process.   
  Buyer Initiated Payments allows American Express to pay B2B suppliers electronically on behalf of our clients, permitting our clients to
have more control over their payments, extend their own days payable outstanding (or  float ), and increase their cash on hand. Examples of BIP purchases by our clients include hospital equipment, industrial supplies, and construction and
building materials. Airlines have used BIP for purchases of jet fuel. This solution is best suited for mid- to large-sized companies that want to transition rapidly to electronic payments, reduce supplier inquiries, convert from paper to electronic
payments, and optimize cash flow. BIP is currently available to companies in the United States and Canada. In 2012, we launched BIP Express, a Web-hosted version of BIP, in Mexico and Germany.   
  In 2012, we launched PAYVE      in the United States, a payment service that enables companies to centralize the processing of multiple payment methods through a single electronic platform. PAYVE      enables companies to improve working capital and cash flow management while streamlining accounts payable processes.
      Online Capabilities       GCP offers companies and individual Cardmembers the ability to manage their Corporate Card Programs, and offers companies the ability to manage their Business-to-Business Payment Solutions, on a 24/7
basis through a suite of secure Web-based online tools. American Express @ Work      provides clients 
authorized users online access to global management information to help them gain visibility into their spending patterns, as well as the ability to make changes to their Corporate Card, Corporate Purchasing Card, BTA and Corporate Meeting Card
accounts. Cardmembers can use the online Manage Your Card Account tool to manage their individual Corporate Card account. Business-to-Business Payment Solutions also offers clients the option to use online access to manage their vPayment and BIP
solutions.       Global Corporate Payments   Competition    
  The corporate payments sector is dynamic and highly competitive, with much overlap between corporate and consumer payment cards and
services and competition increasingly intense at both the network and payment provider levels.      At the network level, we have
experienced increasing competition including intense price competition, aggressive expansion into new and emerging segments, efforts to transition B2B spend from cash and check to cards and electronic invoicing and payment vehicles, and increasing
support from the networks in the sales process. Both Visa and MasterCard continue to support card issuers such as Citibank, JPMorgan Chase and U.S. Bank to build and support data collection and reporting necessary to satisfy customer requirements.
     At the payment provider level, we are seeing increased competition, particularly for mid-sized companies, from both regional
banks and national banks, such as Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase. Payment providers have expanded global issuance footprints and product portfolios by forming partnerships and improving proprietary capabilities. Global servicing, data quality,
technological functionality and simplicity, customer experience, and price and other financial terms are among the key competitive factors in the corporate payments business.       Global Corporate Payments   Regulation       The GCP
business, which engages in the extension of commercial credit, is subject to more limited regulation than our consumer lending business. In the United States, we are subject to certain of the federal and state laws applicable to our consumer lending
business, including the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the FCRA (as amended by the FACT Act), as well as laws that generally prohibit engaging in unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or business practices. We are also subject to certain state laws that
regulate fees and charges on our products. In the United States, we are subject to certain applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws, including certain requirements related to breach notification. Other countries in which we
operate, including those in the European Union, also have certain applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws, in some cases more stringent than the requirements in the United States. We are also subject to bankruptcy and
debtor relief laws that can affect our ability to collect amounts owed to us. As discussed above, along with   
         27   

Table of Contents  

the rest of our business, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective AML programs. For a discussion of this
legislation and its effect on our business, see  Supervision and Regulation  below. In some countries, regulation of card practices and consumer protection legislation may apply to some corporate payments relationships.   
   Global Business Travel       American Express Global Business Travel ( GBT ) provides globally integrated solutions, both online and offline, as well as through mobile applications, to help organizations manage and optimize
their travel expenses and service their traveling employees. GBT seeks to provide our clients with dependability, deep insight and a comprehensive network. With clients ranging from small businesses to multinational and global corporations, we
provide: travel reservation advice and transaction processing through a global network that is available 24 hours per day; preferred partnerships with airline, hotel, car and limousine companies; travel expense management policy
consultation; meeting management, supplier negotiation and consultation; advisory services, management information reporting, business intelligence, data analysis, research and benchmarking; group and incentive travel services; policy control
advice; and mobile applications that help travelers be more efficient when traveling for business purposes.      We continue to
evaluate our economic model and invest in new products, services and technologies to enhance the value that we deliver to our clients and address ongoing travel industry challenges and opportunities. For example, we have substantially reduced our
reliance on commission revenues from suppliers (such as airlines or hotels) and now generate more revenues from clients who pay for the services that we provide. In addition, we have adjusted our expense base to reflect the shift of client
preferences for some types of transactions from high-touch personal service to automated servicing.      We
launched several new programs to support our corporate clients in 2012. For example, we enhanced our hotel offering by providing additional rates and including additional properties that do not load content in various travel booking engines. We also
made enhancements to our mobile travel solution, MOBILEXTEND     , including platform upgrades and the launch of AX
Connect Location   Communication, which helps travel managers locate and provide a level of care to travelers in the case of travel emergencies or disruption.       Global Business Travel   Competition       GBT
continues to face intense competition in the United States and internationally from numerous traditional and online travel management companies, as well as from direct sales by airlines, other travel suppliers and new entrants. Competition among
travel management companies is mainly based on price, service, value creation, convenience, global capabilities and proximity to the customer. Competition also comes from corporate customers themselves, as some companies have become accredited as
in-house corporate travel agents. New entrants could also represent additional competition along the end-to-end travel value chain, which could impact competition in the medium to long term.   
  For many years, travel management companies have faced pressure on revenues from airlines, as most carriers have stopped paying
 base  commissions to travel agents for tickets sold and significantly reduced other forms of travel agent compensation. Carriers have also made efforts to increase the number of transactions they book directly through their Web sites and
other means. These trends have reduced the revenue opportunities for travel management companies because they do not receive distribution revenue from directly booked transactions. In recent years, the airline industry has undergone bankruptcies,
restructurings, consolidations and other similar events including expanded grants of antitrust immunity to airline alliances. This immunity enables airlines to closely coordinate their international operations and to launch highly integrated joint
ventures in transatlantic and other markets. These types of structural changes may result in additional challenges to travel management companies. For additional information concerning these issues, see  Risk Factors  below.   
  Overall, intense competition among travel management companies, the ongoing trends of increasing direct sales by airlines, the rise of
low-cost carriers, ongoing reductions in or elimination of airline commissions and fees and the shift of customer preferences to online channels and automated servicing tools, continue to put pressure on revenue and profitability for travel
agencies.      As noted above, the travel business is broad with much overlap between consumer and business travel. See
 American Express U.S. Consumer Travel Network   Competition  under  U.S. Card Services  above for additional information on the competitive environment in the travel business.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

    Global Business Travel   Regulation    
  The GBT business is subject to domestic and international laws applicable to the provision of travel services, including licensure
requirements, as well as laws and regulations regarding passenger screening and registration such as the Secure Flight Rule issued by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration. In the United States, we are subject to certain applicable
Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws, including certain requirements related to security breach notification. Other countries in which we operate, including those in the European Union, also have certain applicable Privacy, Data
Protection and Information Security Laws to which we are subject, in some cases more stringent than the requirements in the United States. We are also subject to bankruptcy and debtor relief laws that can affect our ability to collect amounts owed
to us and, as a result of American Express Company and TRS each being bank holding companies, GBT is also subject to certain activity restrictions under the BHC Act and certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, with
regard to maintaining effective AML programs. For more information about the applicable activity restrictions under the BHC Act, see  Supervision and Regulation  below.   
     CORPORATE   OTHER    
  Corporate   Other consists of corporate functions and auxiliary businesses, including the Company s Enterprise Growth
Group, the Company s publishing business, as well as other company operations. We also discuss information relevant to the Company as a whole in this section.      As discussed in  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  on page 29 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, our corporate liquidity objective is to maintain access to cash,
readily-marketable securities and contingent sources of liquidity, such that we can continuously meet expected future financing obligations and business requirements for at least a twelve-month period. A large portion of the interest expense in
Corporate   Other includes the interest expense related to maintaining this liquidity pool since all of our businesses benefit from the liquidity, as well as interest expense related to other corporate indebtedness.   
   Enterprise Growth Group       The Enterprise Growth Group was established to pursue new forms of payments and digital commerce that open American Express to new customer segments, new geographies across the world, and new products and
services. Specifically, this includes establishing a digital services platform for the Company, expanding alternative mobile and online payment services, growing our prepaid products, forming new partnerships and building new revenue streams beyond
the traditional Card and travel businesses. Enterprise Growth seeks to optimize our assets and capabilities and build or acquire the talent, businesses and platforms required to deliver new forms of growth in the digital economy. The group consists
of three core business units: Online and Mobile which includes Serve Virtual Enterprises, Inc. or  Serve  (formerly known as Revolution Money), Fee Based Services and Global Payment Options. The group also includes the corporate
development function (the Company s mergers and acquisitions group).       Online and Mobile Payments    
  The Online and Mobile business unit is responsible for developing next generation payment capabilities and
associated services that can expand the role we play in the digital economy. Since launching Serve, we have been working to develop capabilities on the platform to support future digital initiatives and to allow us to deliver more alternative
payment options. Serve      is available in the United States as a digital software-based platform where consumers
can spend, send and receive money, and make person-to-person payments online at serve.com, via mobile phones and make purchases via the Serve card at merchants that accept American Express Cards. Serve unifies multiple payment options into a single
account that can be funded with cash via a Green Dot MoneyPak, from a bank account, debit, credit or charge card, or by receiving money from another Serve account. In 2012, we launched Serve Deals   Offers, which allows Serve customers to
get discounts on local offerings based on their communicated interests.      In addition to direct-to-consumer distribution
activities through the online channel, we have established business relationships in the mobile, e-commerce, not-for-profit and gaming space to build capabilities and drive adoption of the Serve platform. We are focused on working with partners that
have large customer bases that would benefit from embedding   
         29   

Table of Contents  

Serve directly into their payment path and rolling out easy-to-use digital payment solutions for consumers and businesses. For example, during 2012 we partnered with Zynga to launch Zynga Serve
Rewards, a new program that offers in-game incentives for everyday spending. We also developed a Facebook app that allows people to send and request money within a wall post in Facebook.   
  The team is also responsible for expanding our presence in emerging markets. We continue to identify market strategies that include
introducing new payment forms outside our charge and credit products and services, embracing new online and mobile payment technologies, and formulating strategic relationships to generate new, international revenue streams. For example, as a result
of our partnership with the Lianlian Group, the mobile top-up company has leveraged the Serve platform in connection with the processing of certain top-up transactions in three provinces in China as of the end of 2012.   
   Online and Mobile Payments   Competition       The online and mobile payments sector is dynamic and highly competitive, with a variety of different competitors that offer or are developing payment systems in e-commerce and across mobile devices, and
with frequent product introductions in response to evolving consumer habits and merchant needs. These competitors include traditional financial institutions, such as credit card issuers and networks, and increasingly alternative payment providers,
such as PayPal, Google Wallet and Square, as well as other non-traditional industry players, such as mobile operators, handset manufacturers, technology companies, retailers and other start-ups and new entrants to the payments industry. Partnerships
are also being formed among various competitors, such as partnerships between PayPal and Discover and between Square and Starbucks. Among other services, these competitors provide or are seeking to develop digital payment capabilities that can be
used to buy and sell goods online, alternative point-of-sale systems that enable digital payments at the physical point of sale, and services that support payments to and from deposit accounts or proprietary accounts for digital, mobile commerce and
other applications. A number of competitors rely principally on the Internet and wireless communication networks to support their services, and may enjoy lower costs than we do. Other competitors working to deliver digital and mobile payment
services may have and may deploy substantially greater cash reserves and other financial resources than we have or may offer a wider range of services and capabilities than we offer. Consumer and merchant adoption is a key competitive factor and our
competitors may develop platforms or technologies that become more widely adopted than ours. Micro-payments on social networks are relatively small today but have the potential to grow rapidly, representing the possibility for competition from a new
payment form. Competition will remain fierce as payment services and technologies continue to evolve.       Fee Based Services
      The Fee Based Services team within Enterprise Growth is tasked with creating and managing businesses
that can generate new, non-card payment and e-commerce revenue streams by capitalizing on the existing assets of American Express. The Fee Based Services team is responsible for supporting our LoyaltyEdge      offering, a private-labeled loyalty solution that helps companies like Delta Air Lines and FedEx design, implement
and manage customized points-based loyalty programs to engage and retain their customers. The team also supports the online retail site, vente-privee USA LLC, a joint venture between American Express and vente-privee.com, Europe s leader in
online private sales of luxury goods.      Foreign Exchange Services is part of the Fee Based Services organization and consists
of retail and wholesale foreign exchange services and the FX International Payments operation. Our retail foreign exchange business is concentrated primarily in key international airports, including multiple airport locations in Europe (London
Heathrow, Edinburgh, Madrid, Vienna, Geneva and Nice). This airport-based retail business is supplemented in Australia and Singapore with foreign exchange offices in city locations and through selected partner locations serving retail customers in
those countries. In 2012, we announced the expansion of our airport portfolio to include Birmingham (U.K.), Copenhagen and Rome international airports. Our online FX International Payments service enables companies, financial institutions and, in
the case of Australia and the United Kingdom, consumers to make cross-border payments in foreign currencies quickly and efficiently.       Global Payment Options       Global
Payment Options ( GPO ) offers a wide range of prepaid payment products, including both reloadable and non-reloadable prepaid payment products. For example, GPO offers the American Express      Gift Card, a variety of incentive rebate and reward prepaid cards, as well as several general purpose prepaid reloadable cards. In 2012, we launched a reloadable
prepaid card issued by TRS, available at Walmart stores across the United States and online to U.S. residents   
         30   

Table of Contents  

called Bluebird     . Bluebird is a general purpose prepaid
reloadable card that has no minimum balance, no monthly, annual, activation, inactivity or dormancy fees and customer service support free of charge. Bluebird is not FDIC-insured, but is issued under state money transmitter licenses. With Bluebird
and our other general purpose reloadable prepaid cards, we hope to serve new customer segments that do not rely on traditional charge and credit cards or debit and checking products to manage day-to-day finances. We also launched a gift card in the
United Kingdom (issued through our e-money licensed entity, American Express Advanced Services Europe Ltd.).      In addition, we have been in the business of issuing and selling Travelers Cheques since 1891. We sell the American Express      Travelers Cheque ( Travelers Cheque  or  Cheque ) as a safe and convenient alternative to cash. Travelers Cheques are currently available in
U.S. dollars and seven foreign currencies. We also issue and sell other forms of paper Travelers Cheques, including American Express      Gift Cheques ( Gift Cheques ), which are available in U.S. and Canadian dollars. Sales of Travelers Cheques and net interest income from the Travelers
Cheque investment portfolio continued to decline in 2012. We also issue general purpose reloadable prepaid travel cards in different denominations in the United States, Australia, Brazil, South Africa, India and China.   
  We sell American Express prepaid products through a variety of channels globally, including sales directly to customers via the Internet.
Travelers Cheques and Gift Cheques are sold primarily through a broad network of selling outlets across multiple countries, including American Express travel offices, third-party financial institutions and select independent agents. Gift cards are
available at americanexpress.com, in malls and retail locations and in bank branches. Reloadable prepaid products are available in selling locations as well as online in the United States.       Global Payment Options   Competition       Our products
compete with a wide variety of financial payment products including cash, foreign currency, checks, other brands of travelers checks, debit, prepaid and ATM cards, store branded gift cards, other network branded cards and other payment cards.
     The principal competitive factors affecting the prepaid sector vary depending on the type of product, but some are:

Number and location of merchants accepting the form of payment      

Availability to the consumer of other forms of payment      

Amount of fees charged to the consumer          

Compensation paid to, and frequency of settlement by, selling outlets      

Accessibility of sales and refunds for the products          

Success of marketing and promotional campaigns          

Ability to service the customer satisfactorily, including for lost or stolen instruments      
   Global Payment Options   Regulation       As an issuer of Travelers Cheques and prepaid cards, we are regulated in the United States under the  money transmitter  or  sale of check  laws in effect in most states. These laws
require travelers check (and, where applicable, prepaid card) issuers to meet certain safety and soundness criteria, to hold outstanding proceeds of sale in highly rated and secure investments, and to provide detailed reports. We invest the proceeds
from sales of our Travelers Cheques and prepaid cards in accordance with applicable law, predominantly in highly rated debt securities consisting primarily of intermediate- and long-term federal, state and municipal obligations. Many states examine
licensees annually.      In addition, the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act requires, among other things, the
registration of travelers check issuers and the providers of foreign exchange services as  Money Service Businesses  and compliance with applicable AML recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Further, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended in
2011, requires that we maintain an effective AML program for prepaid access products. Outside the United States, there are varying licensing and AML requirements, including some that are similar to those in the United States.   
  Travelers check and prepaid card issuers are required by the laws of many states to comply with state unclaimed and abandoned property
laws, under which such issuers must pay to states the face amount of any travelers check or prepaid card   
         31   

Table of Contents  

that is uncashed or unredeemed after a period of time depending on the type of product. In recent years, a number of states have passed legislation establishing shorter periods for travelers
checks and/or prepaid cards, often with retroactive application. We have challenged, and intend to continue to challenge, what we believe are significant defects in these laws, which can have a significant impact on our Travelers Cheques and prepaid
cards business in the states in which they are enacted.      We continuously monitor state legislative activity concerning any of
our GPO prepaid offerings. In certain states where regulation continues to restrict fees and has made it unprofitable for us to offer prepaid cards, we have either limited or withdrawn from selling in these states.   
   American Express Publishing       Through American Express Publishing, we produce: luxury lifestyle magazine brands such as  Travel + Leisure      ,  Food  
Wine      ,  Departures       and  Executive Travel ; a variety of travel, cooking, wine, time management and financial books and products; international editions of our titles; digital and
mobile content; luxury-marketing events; and custom print and online programs for clients. We seek to deliver lifestyle expertise that informs choices, enriches perspective and empowers affluent and accomplished people   and the businesses that
serve them   to make decisions and lead extraordinary lives. We have a management services agreement with Time Inc. pursuant to which we share certain profits relating to this business.       The Global Services Group       The Global Services Group
( Global Services ) was created to heighten the Company s focus on customer service and to ensure all business operations are managed as effectively and efficiently as possible. We have organized support functions by process rather
than business unit, which the Company expects will streamline costs, reduce duplication of work, better integrate skills and expertise, and improve customer service.      Global Services comprised principally the following divisions:       World Service
      Our U.S. and international service organizations have been consolidated under World Service. Our customer service
units have worked over a number of years to ensure outstanding service to customers, while at the same time improving operating margins. As mentioned above, J.D. Power and Associates released its annual nationwide credit card satisfaction study
and ranked American Express highest in overall satisfaction among 10 of the largest card issuers in the United States for the sixth consecutive year.       Global Business Services       The Global Business Services
division is a shared services organization that includes procurement, real estate, human resources operations and processing, financial operations and processing, and business transformation. These internal process-driven activities have been
consolidated to simplify and standardize processes for increased quality, efficiency and cost savings.       Global Credit
Administration       Global Credit Administration ( GCA ) is responsible for the end-to-end management of our credit,
collections and fraud operations around the world. GCA aims to strike the right balance between helping Cardmembers in need through a range of repayment options, and taking actions to recover balances and limit exposure for American Express.
      Technologies       We continue to make investments in our systems and infrastructure to allow faster introduction and greater customization of products, while maintaining the security of customer data. We also are using
technology to develop and improve our service capabilities to continue to deliver a high quality customer experience. For example, we maintain a   
         32   

Table of Contents  

service delivery platform that our employees use in the Card business to support a variety of customer servicing and account management activities such as account maintenance, updating of
Cardmember information, the addition of new Cards to an account and resolving customer satisfaction issues. In international markets, we are enhancing our global platforms and capabilities, such as in revolving credit.   
  We continue to devote resources to our technology platform to ensure the highest level of data integrity, information security, data
protection and privacy. Our internal IT organization retains our key technology competencies, such as information technology strategy and information security, while outsourcing most of our technology infrastructure management and application
development and maintenance to third-party service providers. This enables us to benefit from third-party expertise and lower information technology costs per transaction. We continue our efforts to safeguard the data entrusted to us in accordance
with our internal policies and applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws, as described under  Supervision and Regulation   Privacy and Data Protection  below.   
  We continue to leverage online channels to lower costs, improve service quality and enhance our business model. As of the end of 2012,
customers had enrolled approximately 30 million Cards globally in our online account management capability known as the  Manage Your Card Account  service. This service enables Cardmembers to review all of their card transactions
online, pay their American Express bills electronically, view and service their Membership Rewards program accounts and conduct various other functions quickly and securely online in accordance with applicable Privacy, Data Protection and
Information Security Laws. We now have an online presence in 22 countries around the world, including the United Kingdom, Australia, Italy, France, Mexico and Japan. We also have a presence on social media networks, such as Facebook, Foursquare and
Twitter, which provide us with another channel to communicate and interact with our Cardmembers.        
 SUPERVISION AND REGULATION        Overview       Federal and state banking laws, regulations and policies extensively regulate the Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, including prescribing standards relating to capital, earnings, liquidity,
dividends, the repurchase or redemption of shares, loans or extension of credit to affiliates and insiders, internal controls, information systems, risk management, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, asset growth and
impaired assets, among other things. Such laws and regulations are intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and other customers and the federal deposit insurance funds, as well as to minimize systemic risk, and not for the protection
of our shareholders or other creditors. Following the financial crisis of 2008, new laws and regulations were promulgated and supervisory efforts to apply laws, regulations and policies have become more intense through increased examination
scrutiny, heightened regulatory expectations regarding compliance and enforcement actions.      American Express Company and TRS
are bank holding companies, and have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, under the BHC Act. As bank holding companies under the BHC Act, American Express Company and TRS are subject to supervision and examination by the Federal
Reserve. Under the system of  functional regulation  established under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve supervises the Company, including all of its non-bank subsidiaries, as an  umbrella regulator  of the consolidated
organization and generally defers to the primary U.S. regulators of the Company s U.S. depository institution subsidiaries. Bank regulatory agencies have broad examination and enforcement power over bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries, including the power to impose substantial fines, limit dividends and other capital distributions, restrict operations and acquisitions, and require divestitures. Bank holding companies and banks, as well as subsidiaries of both, are
prohibited by law from engaging in practices that the relevant regulatory authority deems unsafe or unsound. The Company and its subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, also are subject to supervision, examination and enforcement by the
CFPB with respect to marketing and sale of consumer financial products and compliance with certain federal consumer financial laws, including, among other laws, the CFPA and the TILA, as discussed further below under    Consumer Financial
Protection Act of 2010.       Many aspects of our business also are subject to rigorous regulation by other U.S. federal
and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Certain of our public disclosure, internal control environment and corporate governance principles are
subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of   
         33   

Table of Contents  

2002 ( Sarbanes-Oxley ) and related regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. As a global financial institution, to the extent that different regulatory systems
impose overlapping or inconsistent requirements on the conduct of our business, we face complexity and additional costs in our compliance efforts. New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations (including changes in
interpretation or enforcement) as well as the enforcement of both existing and new laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. In addition to the discussion in this section, see
  Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network 
 in  Risk Factors  below for a further discussion of the potential impact legislative and regulatory changes may have on our results of operations and financial condition.       The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act         Dodd-Frank, which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructured the financial regulatory regime in the United States. Among other things, Dodd-Frank created a new systemic risk oversight
body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the  FSOC ), which oversees and coordinates the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Federal Reserve, the SEC, the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the OCC and the FDIC) in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns. Dodd-Frank also directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve as to supervisory requirements and prudential standards
applicable to bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, which include the Company, and nonbank financial companies designated by the FSOC for supervision by the Federal Reserve. As discussed further
throughout this section, certain aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us or across the industry. In addition to the
discussion in this section, see   The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition   in  Risk
Factors  below for further discussion of the potential impact resulting from the implementation of Dodd-Frank.     
   Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010       Enacted as part of Dodd-Frank, the CFPA created the CFPB, a consumer financial services regulator. On July 21, 2011, our marketing and sale of consumer financial products and our compliance with
certain federal consumer financial laws, including the CFPA and the TILA, became subject to supervision and examination by the CFPB. The CFPB also assumed responsibility from our current banking regulators for supervision, examination and
enforcement of Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and their affiliates, including the Company, with respect to such federal consumer financial laws and then-existing regulations implementing those laws.   
  Dodd-Frank also transferred to the CFPB exclusive rulemaking authority for such federal consumer financial laws and authorized the CFPB
to prohibit  unfair, deceptive or abusive  acts and practices and to ensure that all consumers have access to markets for consumer financial products and services, and that such markets are fair, transparent and competitive. The review of
products and practices to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive conduct will be a continuing focus of the CFPB and banking regulators more broadly, as well as by the Company itself.   
  In July 2012 the CFPB issued an industry bulletin regarding its review of marketing practices with respect to credit card add-on
products, including debt cancellation, identity theft protection, credit reporting and monitoring, and other supplementary products. We are cooperating with regulators in their ongoing regulatory examinations of credit card add-on products. For a
description of the settlements reached with, and ongoing reviews by, several bank regulators, including the CFPB, relating to certain aspects of the Company s U.S. consumer card practices, see  Card-Issuing Business and Deposit Programs
  Regulation  under  U.S. Card Services  above.       Financial Holding Company Status and Activities
      The BHC Act limits the nonbanking activities of bank holding companies. The activities of bank holding companies that
have not elected to be treated as  financial holding companies  are restricted to those activities that the Federal Reserve has determined are  so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto.  An eligible bank
holding company may elect to be treated as a financial holding company, which is authorized to engage in a broader range of financial activities. A financial holding company may engage in any activity that has been determined by rule or order to be
financial in nature,   
         34   

Table of Contents  

incidental to such financial activity, or (with prior Federal Reserve approval) complementary to a financial activity and that does not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of a
depository institution or to the financial system generally. As a financial holding company, American Express engages in various activities permissible only for a bank holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company
including, in particular, providing travel agency services, acting as a finder and engaging in certain insurance underwriting and agency services.      For a bank holding company to become and remain eligible for financial holding company status, the bank holding company and each of its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions must be  well
capitalized  and  well managed,  and each of its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions must have received at least a satisfactory rating on its most recent assessment under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the
 CRA ). If the bank holding company fails to meet applicable standards for financial holding company status (which, in most cases, is confidential supervisory information), it is likely to be barred from engaging in new types of financial
activities or making certain types of acquisitions or investments in reliance on its status as a financial holding company, and ultimately could be required to either discontinue the broader range of activities permitted to financial holding
companies or divest its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions.      See   Our business is subject to significant and
extensive government regulation and supervision, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition   in  Risk Factors  below.       Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies       As discussed above, Dodd-Frank created a new systemic risk oversight body, the FSOC, to identify, monitor and address potential threats to U.S. financial stability. Additionally, Dodd-Frank imposes
heightened prudential requirements on bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, including the Company, and requires the Federal Reserve to establish prudential standards for such large bank holding companies that
are more stringent than those applicable to other bank holding companies, including standards for risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits, liquidity, risk management requirements, resolution plans (referred to as  living
wills ), stress tests, early redemption, credit exposure reporting and concentration. The Federal Reserve has discretionary authority to establish additional prudential standards on its own or at the FSOC s recommendation regarding
contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits and otherwise as it deems appropriate. Because the Federal Reserve may, on its own volition or in response to a recommendation by the FSOC, tailor the application of these
enhanced prudential standards to specific companies, including the Company, the ultimate impact of these enhanced standards on the Company is not certain.      In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued rules relating to supervisory and company-run stress tests for large bank holding companies, discussed below under   Stress Testing .  With
respect to the remaining enhanced prudential standards, in January 2012, the Federal Reserve published a notice of proposed rulemaking to implement many of the heightened prudential requirements, which would require the following:   

Enhanced Capital and Leverage Requirements:  See  Basel III  below.      

Enhanced Liquidity Standards:  The Federal Reserve s notice of proposed rulemaking states that the enhanced liquidity standards will be
addressed in  stages.  As the first stage of this undertaking, the proposed rules focus on prudential steps to manage liquidity risk, which comprehensively detail liquidity risk management responsibilities for boards of directors and
senior management, and would require:          

maintenance of a liquidity buffer, consisting of assets meeting certain standards, that is sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and projected
loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days over a range of liquidity stress scenarios;          

production of comprehensive cash flow projections and identification and quantification of discrete and cumulative cash flow mismatches;

regular stress testing of cash flow projections over various time horizons;      

establishment and maintenance of a contingency funding plan that sets out strategies for addressing liquidity needs during liquidity stress events;

establishment and maintenance of limits on potential sources of liquidity risk, including concentrations of funding, maturity of specified liabilities
within various time horizons, and off-balance sheet exposures that could create funding needs during liquidity stress events; and      
         35   

Table of Contents  

variety of monitoring requirements.         The Federal Reserve noted that it would  implement the second stage  of a regulatory liquidity framework for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in consolidated assets, or a subset
of such bank holding companies, through future proposals that would require such bank holding companies to satisfy specific liquidity requirements derived from or consistent with the international liquidity standards incorporated into the Basel III
framework (discussed below).       

Single Counterparty Credit Exposure Limits:  Under the proposed rule, beginning October 1, 2013, bank holding companies with $50 billion or
more in consolidated assets generally would be subject to a limit on aggregate net credit exposure with any single unaffiliated counterparty equal to 25% of capital stock and surplus.      

Enhanced Risk Management Requirements:  Under the proposed rule, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets would be
required to establish a dedicated risk committee reporting directly to the company s board of directors, comprised of members of the bank holding company s board of directors, which would document, review and approve the enterprise-wide
risk management practices of the company. The risk committee would be required to have an appropriate number of independent directors, would be required to have at least one risk management expert and would be required to oversee the operation of an
enterprise-wide risk management framework commensurate with the company s capital structure, risk profile, complexity, activities, size and other appropriate risk-related factors, and would be subject to certain governance provisions set forth
in the proposed rule. Such bank holding companies, including the Company, would also be required to appoint a Chief Risk Officer.         Because the proposed rule is not final, the ultimate impact of these measures on us is not certain.      Dodd-Frank also mandates that certain expenses of the Office of Financial Research, which include, among other things, the operating expenses of the FSOC and certain expenses of the FDIC, be funded
through assessments on bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the Company, and certain other non-bank financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve. In May 2012, the U.S. Treasury issued a rule
setting forth the manner in which these assessments would be made. Under this rule, the total of the covered expenses will be distributed pro rata (based on consolidated assets) among bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated
assets.       Stress Testing       In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued rules relating to supervisory and company-run stress tests for large bank holding companies. These rules require analyses of certain large bank holding
companies to evaluate whether the companies have sufficient capital on a total consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses as a result of adverse economic conditions (so-called  stress tests ). These rules implement a key portion of the
enhanced prudential requirements of Dodd-Frank and include the following:       

Supervisory Stress Testing:  The Federal Reserve must conduct annual stress tests of bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total
consolidated assets. Under this rule, the stress tests use a minimum of three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve (baseline, adverse and severely adverse), and be based on methodologies and data that the Federal Reserve
will make available to companies no later than November 15 of each year. A summary of results of individual stress tests will be made public by the Federal Reserve on a company-specific basis.      

Company Stress Testing:  Bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets and that participated in the 2009
Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, such as the Company, are also required to conduct a similar stress test on a semiannual basis. A summary of the results of each of these tests must be publicly disclosed. Dodd-Frank requires the other federal
bank regulators to issue regulations that are consistent with the stress test regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, which would ultimately apply to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. In October 2012, the FDIC and the OCC issued rules to implement the
annual company stress testing requirements that would be applicable to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, respectively.         The Federal Reserve applies its stress tests rules and its capital planning requirements, discussed in   Capital Planning   below, on a consolidated basis.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

    Capital Planning    
  Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including the Company, are required to develop and maintain
a so-called  capital plan,  and to submit the capital plan to the Federal Reserve for review. The capital plan must cover a  planning horizon  of at least nine quarters (beginning with the quarter preceding the submission of the
plan) and include the following components:       

an assessment of the bank holding company s expected uses and sources of capital over the planning horizon that accounts for the bank holding
company s size, complexity, risk profile and scope of operations, and under expected and stressful conditions according to scenarios developed by the bank holding company and the Federal Reserve;      

a detailed description of the bank holding company s process for assessing capital adequacy, including how it will, under expected and stressful
conditions, maintain capital commensurate with its risks, above the minimum regulatory ratios, and to serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary depository institutions, and sufficient to continue operations by maintaining steady access to
funding, meeting obligations to creditors and other counterparties and continuing to serve as a credit intermediary;          

the bank holding company s capital policy; and          

a discussion of any expected changes to the bank holding company s business.      
  Each capital plan must consider a minimum of four planning scenarios, including separate baseline and stressed scenarios developed by the
bank holding company and the Federal Reserve. The stressed scenario developed by the Federal Reserve for the 2013 process is designed to represent an outcome that, in the opinion of the Federal Reserve, is unlikely, but could occur if the U.S.
economy were to experience a deep recession while at the same time economic activity in other major economies were also to contract significantly. In addition to other limitations, our ability to make any capital distributions (including dividends
and share repurchases) is contingent on the Federal Reserve s approval or non-objection to our capital plan. Likewise, the Federal Reserve may limit our ability to take any capital actions should the Company fail to include any intended action
in its capital plan.      A bank holding company s board of directors, or a designated committee thereof, is required, at
least annually, to review the  robustness  of the bank holding company s process for assessing capital adequacy, ensure that any deficiencies are remedied and approve the capital plan.   
  In its review of the capital plan, the Federal Reserve will consider the plan s comprehensiveness, the reasonableness of its
assumptions and analysis, and the bank holding company s methodologies for reviewing the robustness of the capital adequacy process and ability to maintain capital above minimum regulatory ratios under expected and stressful conditions
throughout the planning horizon. Based on its review, the Federal Reserve will either object or not object to the capital plan. The Federal Reserve has broad authority to object to capital plans, and to require bank holding companies to revise and
resubmit their capital plans for approval. Bank holding companies are also subject to an ongoing requirement to revise and resubmit their capital plans upon the occurrence of certain events specified by rule, or when required by the Federal Reserve.
If a bank holding company receives an objection to its capital plan, it must resubmit a revised plan within 30 days. Should the Federal Reserve object to a capital plan, a bank holding company may not make any capital distribution other than those
capital distributions that the Federal Reserve has indicated non-objection to in writing.      The Federal Reserve has indicated
that it intends to publish the results of its review of the portion of each bank holding company s capital plan that relates to the stress scenario developed by the Federal Reserve. The information to be released will include, among other
things, company-specific information about projected post-stress capital ratios and the minimum value of these ratios over the planning horizon. Additionally, the Federal Reserve may limit the Company s capital actions should the Company fail
to include any intended action in its approved 2013 capital plan.      In November 2012, the Federal Reserve released additional
guidance and instructions for 2013 capital plans. Under this guidance, the Federal Reserve noted that certain large bank holding companies, such as the Company, will have limited ability to adjust downward planned capital actions in light of stress
test results. Should an adjustment occur, however, the Federal Reserve intends to publicly disclose the results of stress tests using both the original and adjusted 2013 capital plans. Additionally, although they are not yet in effect, the Federal
Reserve s guidance requires a bank holding company to demonstrate that it can achieve the capital ratios required by the Basel III framework as it would come into effect.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

   On January 7, 2013, we submitted our comprehensive capital plan to the Federal Reserve.
We expect a response from the Federal Reserve by March 14, 2013.       Dividends    
  The Company and TRS, as well as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, are limited by banking statutes, regulations and supervisory policy in their
ability to pay dividends. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit, without first obtaining regulatory approval, insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from making dividend distributions if such
distributions are not paid out of available recent earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet capital adequacy standards. As described below under   Prompt Corrective Action ,  the FDIA also generally prohibits an
FDIC-insured depository institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. In addition to specific
limitations on the dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies, federal regulators could prohibit a dividend that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition of the banking
organization.      Dividend payments by the Company and TRS to shareholders are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve.
It is Federal Reserve policy that bank holding companies generally should pay dividends on common stock to common shareholders only out of net income available to common shareholders over the past year and only if the prospective rate of earnings
retention appears consistent with the organization s current and expected future capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Increasingly, however, the Federal Reserve has limited dividend payments to about 30% of earnings.
Moreover, bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that place undue pressure on the capital of depository institution subsidiaries or that may undermine the bank holding company s ability to be a source of strength to its
banking subsidiaries. The Federal Reserve could prohibit a dividend by the Company or TRS that would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.   
  Because the Company is a bank holding company with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets, its payment of dividends is subject to
heightened regulatory requirements. The Company is required to include projected dividend payments in the capital plan required to be submitted to the Federal Reserve, discussed above under   Capital Planning ,  and the restrictions
imposed as part of the capital planning process will likely be the principal limitation on our ability to make capital distributions (including dividends and share repurchases). In addition, under the Federal Reserve s final rule relating to
capital plans released in November 2011, the Company generally is required to obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before it can make capital distributions, including dividend payments, under any of the following circumstances (regardless
of whether the distribution is part of a capital plan to which the Federal Reserve has not objected):       

the Company will not meet a minimum regulatory capital ratio or a Tier 1 common equity ratio of at least 5% after giving effect to the capital
distribution;          

the Federal Reserve has notified the Company that it has determined that either (i) the capital distribution will result in a material adverse
change to the Company s capital or liquidity structure, or (ii) the Company s earnings are materially underperforming projections;          

the dollar amount of the capital distribution will exceed the projected distribution described in the Company s approved capital plan; or

the capital distribution will occur after the occurrence of an event requiring the resubmission (other than pursuant to an objection) of the
Company s capital plan and before the Federal Reserve has acted on the resubmitted plan.         Prior
approval of a bank holding company s capital distributions is not required for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets that are well capitalized, provided the capital distribution does not exceed one percent of
such company s Tier 1 capital, the Company provides the Federal Reserve with at least 15 calendar days  notice of the proposed distribution, and the Federal Reserve does not object. The Federal Reserve has indicated that capital plans
implying dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive  particularly close scrutiny.    
         38   

Table of Contents  

    Living Wills    
  As noted above, we will be required to prepare and provide to regulators a resolution plan. The resolution plan is mandated under the
Dodd-Frank Act, which requires bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or greater to submit a plan for rapid and orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code in the event of material distress or failure. Pursuant to a rule that took effect
in November 2011, the first such resolution plan for us is required to be submitted by December 31, 2013 and annual updates will be required thereafter. The establishment and maintenance of this resolution plan may, as a practical matter,
present additional constraints on transactions and business arrangements between our bank and non-bank subsidiaries.   
   Activities and Acquisitions       As a bank holding company with insured depository institution subsidiaries, we are subject to banking laws and regulations that limit our activities, investments and acquisitions. In addition,
acquisitions and investments are subject to the prior review and approval of our regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC. The banking agencies have broad discretion in evaluating proposed acquisitions and investments. In
deciding whether to approve an acquisition, federal banking agencies may consider, among other factors, effects of the acquisition on competition, financial and managerial resources, and financial stability; future prospects, including current and
projected capital ratios and levels; the competence and expertise of management and our record of compliance with laws and regulations; public benefits; the convenience and needs of the community and our depository institution subsidiaries 
record of compliance with the CRA; risks to the stability of the U.S. banking or financial system; and our effectiveness in combating money laundering. As a financial holding company, we may engage in a broader range of financial and related
activities than are otherwise permissible for bank holding companies as long as we continue to meet the eligibility requirements for financial holding companies noted above.      Among other things, the BHC Act requires a bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting
shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of any class of the voting securities of the institution; (2) it or any of its
subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association (the Bank Merger Act requires regulatory approval before a bank subsidiary may make such an acquisition); or (3) it
may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company.      The Federal Reserve must approve certain additional capital
contributions to an existing non-U.S. investment and certain direct and indirect acquisitions by the Company of an interest in a non-U.S. company, including in a foreign bank. Dodd-Frank requires bank holding companies with total consolidated assets
equal to or greater than $50 billion to provide the Federal Reserve with written notice (which is largely tantamount to an approval process) prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company (other than
an insured depository institution) that is engaged in financial activities described in section 4(k) of the BHC Act and that has total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more, subject to certain exceptions. Dodd-Frank also requires financial
holding companies to obtain Federal Reserve approval prior to acquiring any nonbank company with total consolidated assets in excess of $10 billion.      Applicable federal and state laws also limit the ability of persons to invest in or acquire control of the Company without providing notice to or obtaining the approval of one or more of our regulators.
The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person, entity, or group of persons or entities acting in concert, from directly or indirectly acquiring  control  of a bank holding company such as the Company, unless the Federal Reserve has
been given prior notice and has not objected to the transaction. Under Federal Reserve regulations, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of the Company would generally create a rebuttable presumption of acquisition of control of
the Company and require prior notice to and non-objection by the Federal Reserve. Additionally, under the BHC Act, any person or company is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of the Company, which, among
other things, includes the acquisition of ownership of or control over 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the Company or the power to exercise a  controlling influence  over the Company. In the case of an acquirer that is a
bank or bank holding company, the BHC Act requires approval of the Federal Reserve for the acquisition of ownership or control of any voting securities of the Company, if the acquisition results in the bank or bank holding company controlling more
than 5% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of the Company.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

    Source of Strength    
  Bank holding companies are required by statute to act as a source of strength to all of their insured depository institution
subsidiaries. Therefore, the Company is required to act as a source of strength to Centurion Bank and AEBFSB and may be required to commit capital and financial resources to support both institutions. Such support may be required at times when,
absent this requirement, the Company otherwise might determine not to provide it.      Capital loans by a bank holding
company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company
to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.       Capital Adequacy       The Company, TRS, Centurion Bank and
AEBFSB are required to comply with the applicable capital adequacy rules established by the federal banking regulators. Currently, there are two risk-based measures of capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been promulgated by the
Federal Reserve, as well as a leverage measure. As discussed further below, new risk-based and leverage measures have been proposed by the federal banking regulators.      The risk-based capital rules are designed to make regulatory capital requirements sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and financial holding companies, to account for off-balance-sheet
exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Capital ratios represent capital (as defined) as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance-sheet items. As a supervisory matter, the federal bank regulatory agencies
expect most bank holding companies, and in particular larger bank holding companies such as the Company, to maintain regulatory capital ratios that, at a minimum, qualify a bank holding company and its depository institution subsidiaries as
 well capitalized.  The required ratios to qualify as well capitalized are currently a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and, for depository institutions, a leverage ratio
of at least 5%. The Proposed Basel III Rules (as defined below), if implemented in the form proposed, will amend the capital ratios required for well capitalized status. The rules also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth
or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Following the recent financial crisis, the federal bank regulatory
agencies have encouraged larger bank holding companies to maintain capital ratios appreciably above the  well capitalized  standard. Moreover, the Federal Reserve is focusing more on the regulatory requirement that common equity be the
 predominant  element of Tier 1 capital. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it will consider a  tangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratio  (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital
strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.      For additional information regarding our capital ratios,
see  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  on pages 29-31 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.       General Risk-Based Capital Rules       The Company, TRS,
Centurion Bank and AEBFSB currently calculate regulatory capital ratios under rules adopted by the applicable federal bank regulatory agency, based on the 1988 Capital Accord ( Basel I ) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the
 Basel Committee ). The applicable federal bank regulatory agencies refer to these capital rules as their  general risk-based capital rules.  Under these rules, the minimum requirement for the ratio of total capital to
risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance-sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8%. At least half of the total capital must be composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes common equity, undivided profits, minority
interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, and non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (and, under existing standards, a limited amount of qualifying trust preferred securities and qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock
at the holding company level), less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Tier 2 capital may consist of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt, mandatorily convertible debt securities, other preferred stock and trust
preferred securities and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses.      Dodd-Frank applies to bank holding companies such
as the Company the same risk-based capital and leverage requirements that apply to insured depository institutions. Going forward this will preclude the Company from including in   
         40   

Table of Contents  

Tier 1 capital trust preferred securities or cumulative preferred stock, if any, issued on or after May 19, 2010 and, over a three-year period beginning January 1, 2013, and requires
the Company to phase out all trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred stock from inclusion in its Tier 1 capital. The minimum requirement for the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets is 4%.   
  The general risk-based capital rules state that the capital rules are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk
considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The Federal Reserve may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for
categories of banks (e.g., systemically important firms), or for an individual bank, as situations warrant. As discussed above, the Federal Reserve in fact expects large bank holding companies, such as the Company, and their depository institution
subsidiaries to maintain regulatory capital ratios well in excess of these minimums.       Advanced Approaches Risk Based
Capital Rules       In June 2004, the Basel Committee issued the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital
Measurement and Capital Standards ( Basel II ). The applicable federal bank regulatory agencies refer to their Basel II-based rules as their  advanced approaches rules  and apply them only to banking institutions having $250
billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in foreign exposures. The agencies refer to those institutions as  advanced approaches  institutions. The Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are required to enter the
parallel-run period and commence calculating their risk-based capital ratios under the advanced approaches risk-based capital rules, while continuing to calculate risk-based capital ratios under the general risk-based capital rules as a floor, by
January 1, 2014, unless extended by their respective regulators. The U.S. advanced approaches risk-based capital rules, which became effective April 1, 2008, initially provided that advanced approaches institutions like the Company would
calculate their capital requirements only under the new Basel II-based requirements after completion of three transitional floor periods, which themselves commence after a satisfactory parallel-run period of no less than four consecutive calendar
quarters during which the institution is required to confidentially report regulatory capital under both the general and advanced approaches risk-based capital rules. However, the U.S. banking agencies have amended their capital rules to provide
that minimum capital as required under the general risk-based capital rules will act as a floor for minimum capital requirements calculated in accordance with the advanced approaches risk-based capital rules.   
  In June 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies released proposed rules implementing standardized approach to credit risk outlined in
the Basel II-based rules (the  Standardized Approach Rules ). The Standardized Approach Rules would replace the risk-weighting categories for assets under the federal bank regulatory agencies  general risk-based capital rules to
provide a more risk-sensitive treatment for certain assets and to address weaknesses that the federal banking regulators identified over recent years. The new risk-weights for the standardized approach range from 0% to 600% as compared to the
risk-weights of 0% to 100% in the federal bank regulatory agencies  existing general risk-based capital rules. Higher risk weights would apply to a variety of exposures, including certain securitization exposures, equity exposures, claims on
securities firms and exposures to counterparties on OTC derivatives. The federal bank regulatory agencies  June 2012 proposal provided that the Standardized Approach Rules will become effective on January 1, 2015, with an option for early
adoption.       Leverage Requirement       Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an international standard. However, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage ratio rules for banking
institutions (and, as further discussed below, the Proposed Basel III Rules will impose an additional leverage ratio). The federal bank regulatory agencies  existing capital rules provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total
assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the  Leverage Ratio ), of 3.0% for banking institutions that meet certain specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All other banking institutions are
generally required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4.0%. The federal bank regulatory agencies  proposed revised capital rules released in June 2012, in addition to addressing their Standardized Approach Rules and Proposed Basel III
Rules (as defined below), if implemented, will eliminate the 3.0% minimum leverage ratio for certain banking institutions, with the consequence that all banking institutions will be required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 4.0%.   

         41   

Table of Contents  

    Basel III       In June 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies released proposed rules (the  Proposed Basel III Rules ) implementing the final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity
regulation, known as  Basel III,  released by the Basel Committee in December 2010. The Proposed Basel III Rules, among other things:       

Introduce as a new capital measure  Common Equity Tier 1  ( CET1 ), specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and
 Additional Tier 1 capital  instruments meeting specified requirements, require that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures (such as the deductions described below) be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital,
and expand the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations          

When fully phased in, require banking institutions to maintain:      

a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5%  capital conservation buffer,  which is added to the 4.5% CET1
ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7% (there is no comparable CET1 requirement under either the federal bank regulatory agencies  general or advanced
approaches risk-based capital rules)          

a minimum ratio of Tier 1 (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital
conservation buffer, which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation (the current minimum requirement is 4.0% )

a minimum ratio of Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the
capital conservation buffer, which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation (the current minimum requirement is 8.0%)

Apply to advanced approaches banking institutions only, including the Company, a new Basel III-based leverage ratio of at least 3.0%, calculated as the
ratio of Tier 1 capital to an expanded concept of leverage exposure that includes both on-balance sheet and certain off-balance sheet exposures          

For advanced approaches institutions only, introduce a  countercyclical capital buffer,  an add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the
range of 0% to 2.5% (potentially resulting in total buffers of up to 5.0% being added to each of the ratios of CET1, Tier 1 Capital and Total capital to risk-weighted assets), which can be assessed with respect to certain banking institutions and
bank holding companies, including the Company, when the relevant U.S. federal banking regulator determines excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk      
  Banking institutions whose ratio of CET1, Tier 1 Capital or Total capital to risk-weighted assets is above the minimum but below the
conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.
     The Proposed Basel III Rules provide for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include the
requirement that deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income, significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities and mortgage servicing rights, be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of
CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. The amount of these assets that is not deducted from CET1 will be risk weighted at 250%. Goodwill will be subject to a full deduction from CET1, which is consistent with the
calculation of other capital ratios.      The federal bank regulatory agencies initially stated that the Proposed Basel III Rules
would become effective on January 1, 2013, but in November 2012 indicated that the implementation of these rules would be delayed. The final rules as implemented and applicable to us may differ from the Proposed Basel III Rules or the Basel III
final framework as published by the Basel Committee. Therefore, the implications for the Company s and its subsidiaries  regulatory capital requirements remain uncertain at this time.   
  In November 2011, the Basel Committee supplemented Basel III by issuing final provisions applying a new CET1 surcharge to certain global
systemically important banks ( G-SIBs ). In a companion release addressing progress on a variety   
         42   

Table of Contents  

of financial regulatory reforms relating to global systemically important financial institutions, the Financial Stability Board released a list of 29 such institutions and indicated that it used
the G-SIB surcharge methodology in creating the list. The Company was not included on either the original or revised list of G-SIBs released in November 2012. While the Proposed Basel III Rules did not address the adoption of the surcharge on
G-SIBs, the federal bank regulators noted that they plan to implement this surcharge for institutions with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, or some subset of such institutions, consistent with the Basel Committee s G-SIB
surcharge proposal.       Liquidity Ratios under Basel III    
  Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in
the United States and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to
liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio ( LCR ), is designed to ensure
that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets that can be converted into cash to meet its liquidity needs for a 30-day time horizon under a significantly severe liquidity stress scenario specified by
supervisors. The other test, referred to as the net stable funding ratio ( NSFR ), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements
will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of cash, U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source.   
  The Basel III liquidity framework contemplates that the LCR will be implemented beginning with 60% compliance required starting on
January 1, 2015 with the remaining portion phased-in over the next four years in 10% increments, reaching 100% on January 1, 2019. The Basel III liquidity framework contemplates that the NSFR will be implemented as a minimum standard by
January 1, 2018.      The Federal bank regulatory agencies have not yet proposed rules implementing the Basel III liquidity
framework for U.S. banking institutions.      The Federal Reserve s proposed heightened prudential requirements for bank
holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated total assets also include enhanced liquidity standards, as discussed above under   Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies .    
   Prompt Corrective Action       The FDIA requires, among other things, that federal banking regulators take prompt corrective action in respect of FDIC-insured depository institutions (such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) that do not meet
minimum capital requirements. The FDIA specifies five capital tiers:  well capitalized,   adequately capitalized,   undercapitalized,   significantly undercapitalized  and  critically
undercapitalized.  A depository institution s capital tier depends upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. A bank may be deemed to be in a
capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating. Once an institution becomes  undercapitalized,  the FDIA imposes progressively more restrictive
constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified. A depository institution that is not well capitalized is also subject to restrictions on the acceptance of
brokered deposits including Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service deposits. The majority of the Company s outstanding U.S. retail deposits has been raised through third-party channels, and such deposits are considered brokered
deposits for bank regulatory purposes, although as part of our funding strategy, a majority of the deposits raised during 2012 were accepted directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings, a set of deposit products offered by
AEBFSB. For a description of our deposit programs, see  Deposit Programs  under  U.S. Card Services   Consumer and Small Business Services  above and  Deposit Programs  on page 33 of our 2012 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.      The FDIA generally prohibits an FDIC-insured depository
institution from making any capital distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are
subject to restrictions on borrowing from the Federal Reserve   
         43   

Table of Contents  

and to growth limitations, and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable, any holding company must guarantee the capital plan up to an
amount equal to the lesser of 5% of the depository institution s assets at the time it became undercapitalized and the amount of the capital deficiency at the time it fails to comply with the plan. In the event of the holding company s
bankruptcy, such guarantee would take priority over claims of its general unsecured creditors. If a depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized.   
  Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to
sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to appointment of a
receiver or conservator.       Early Remediation Regime    
  Dodd-Frank requires the establishment of an  early remediation  regime for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in
consolidated assets, including the Company. In January 2012, the Federal Reserve published a notice of proposed rulemaking that included a proposed early remediation system based in part on the prompt corrective action regime that currently applies
to insured depository institutions under the FDIA. The proposed rule, however, utilizes  forward-looking  triggers based on capital and leverage, stress test requirements, risk management, liquidity and publicly available market data.
Because these rules are not yet final, their ultimate impact on us is not certain.       Transactions Between Centurion Bank or
AEBFSB and Their Respective Affiliates       Certain transactions (including loans and credit extensions from Centurion Bank
and AEBFSB) between Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, on the one hand, and their affiliates (including the Company, TRS and their non-bank subsidiaries), on the other hand, are subject to quantitative and qualitative limitations, collateral requirements,
and other restrictions imposed by statute and Federal Reserve regulation. Effective July 21, 2012, Dodd-Frank significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization and changes
the procedure for seeking exemptions from these restrictions. Transactions subject to these restrictions are generally required to be made on an arms-length basis. These restrictions generally do not apply to transactions between a depository
institution and its subsidiaries.       FDIC Insurance Assessments    
  Centurion Bank and AEBFSB accept deposits and those deposits are insured by the FDIC up to the applicable limits. The FDIC s deposit
insurance fund ( Deposit Insurance Fund ) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions. As part of its efforts to rebuild the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC required insured depository institutions, including Centurion
Bank and AEBFSB, to prepay their estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009.      Each
institution s assessments are based on the average consolidated total assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period (the  assessment base ). The assessment rate applicable
to large depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, is adjusted based upon the insured depository institution s ratio of (1) long-term unsecured debt to the assessment base, (2) long-term unsecured debt issued by
another insured depository institution to the assessment base and (3) brokered deposits to the assessment base. The adjustments for brokered deposits to the assessment base do not apply so long as the institution is well capitalized and has a
composite CAMELS rating of 1 or 2. The rules permit the FDIC to impose additional discretionary assessment rate adjustments.   
  Dodd-Frank requires the FDIC to maintain a minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund of 1.35% of estimated insured deposits by
September 30, 2020. On December 20, 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule setting the increased reserve ratio at 2%. This rule represents an increase in the reserve ratio and will result in increased costs for Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. In
addition, Dodd-Frank eliminated the ceiling (1.5% of insured deposits) on the size of the Deposit Insurance Fund and made the payment of dividends from the Deposit Insurance Fund by the FDIC discretionary.   
  Under the FDIA, the FDIC may terminate the insurance of an institution s deposits upon a finding that the institution has engaged in
unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. We do not know of any practice, condition or violation that might
lead to termination of deposit insurance at either of our insured depository institution subsidiaries.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

    FDIC Powers upon Insolvency of Insured Depository Institutions    
  If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution, such as Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, upon its
insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power: (1) to transfer any of the depository institution s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution s creditors; (2) to
enforce the terms of the depository institution s contracts pursuant to their terms; or (3) to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC
to be burdensome and the disaffirmation or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.      In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority
over other general unsecured claims against the institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and depositors in non-U.S. offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of the institution by a receiver. As a result, whether
or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of Centurion Bank or AEBFSB, the debt holders and depositors in non-U.S. offices would be treated differently from, and could receive substantially less, if anything, than the depositors
in U.S. offices of the depository institution.       Orderly Liquidation Authority under Dodd-Frank    
  Dodd-Frank creates Orderly Liquidation Authority ( OLA ), a resolution regime for systemically important non-bank financial
companies, including bank holding companies, under which the Treasury Secretary may appoint the FDIC as receiver to liquidate such a company if the company is in danger of default and presents a systemic risk to U.S. financial stability. This
determination by the Treasury Secretary must come after supermajority recommendations by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC and consultation by the Treasury Secretary with the President. OLA is similar to the FDIC resolution model for depository
institutions (including the very broad powers granted to the FDIC as receiver), with certain modifications to reflect differences between depository institutions and non-bank financial companies and to reduce disparities between the treatment of
creditors  claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an OLA proceeding as compared to disparities that would exist in the resolution by the FDIC of an insured depository institution. However, the provisions governing the rights of
creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified from the FDIA regime in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors  claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims
under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist between these two regimes, including: the right of the FDIC under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in
some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors  claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a  bridge 
entity.      An Orderly Liquidation Fund will fund OLA liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the
U.S. Department of Treasury and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that receive more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies
with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as the Company, and on certain other non-bank financial companies. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, the Company could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. It is
not possible to determine the level of any such future assessments.      The orderly liquidation authority provisions of the
Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon enactment. However, a number of rulemakings are required under the terms of the Act, and a number of provisions of the new authority require clarification. The FDIC has completed its initial phase of rulemaking
under the orderly liquidation authority, but may provide additional guidance. New guidance may affect the manner in which the new authority is applied.       Cross-Guarantee Provisions       Under the
 cross-guarantee  provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 ( FIRREA ), insured depository institutions, such as Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any
loss incurred or reasonably anticipated to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly controlled insured depository institution. Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are commonly controlled within the meaning
of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

    Community Reinvestment Act    
  Centurion Bank and AEBFSB are subject to the CRA, which imposes affirmative, ongoing obligations on depository institutions to meet the
credit needs of their local communities, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. The CRA requires an institution s primary federal regulator, as part of the examination
process, to assess the institution s record in meeting its obligations under the CRA, and also to take such assessment into account in evaluating merger and acquisition proposals and applications to open or relocate a branch office. AEBFSB was
examined by the OCC for CRA compliance in November 2012. We are awaiting the results of this examination. Centurion Bank will be examined by the FDIC during the first quarter of 2013, with the results to be released shortly thereafter. In each of
their last examinations, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB received  satisfactory  CRA ratings.      In the case of a bank
holding company, such as the Company and TRS, applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary depository institution of the applicant bank holding company in considering
the application. In addition, as discussed previously, the failure of the Company s subsidiary depository institutions to maintain satisfactory CRA ratings could result in restrictions on the Company s and TRS  ability to engage in
activities in reliance on financial holding company authority.       Privacy and Data Protection    
  We use information about our customers to develop and make available relevant, personalized products and services. Customers are given
choices about how we use and disclose their information, and we give them notice regarding the measures we take to safeguard this information in accordance with applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws.   
  Regulatory and legislative activity, as well as media and public focus, in the areas of privacy, data protection and information security
continues to increase worldwide, spurred by advancements in technology (including mobile devices), broad use of the Internet, expanding uses of mobile commerce and social networking, and related concerns about the rapid and widespread collection,
dissemination and use of personal information, and highly publicized security breaches and cybersecurity incidents. Our regulators, including regulatory examiners, are increasingly focused on ensuring that our privacy, data protection and
information security-related policies and practices, including those related to access controls, are adequate to inform consumers of our data collection, use, sharing and/or security practices, to provide them with choices, if required, about how we
use and share their information, and to safeguard their personal information in accordance with applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws.      In the United States, certain of our businesses may be subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( GLBA ) and its implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA imposes certain
limitations on the ability of financial institutions to share consumers  nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties; requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their data collection,
sharing and security practices and affords customers the right to  opt out  of the institution s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions), and requires financial
institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial
institution s activities and the sensitivity of customer information processed by the financial institution. The GLBA does not preempt state laws that afford greater privacy protections to consumers. Various states also have adopted laws, rules
and/or regulations pertaining to privacy and/or information security, including certain potentially applicable financial privacy laws (such as a law in effect in California); data security and/or data disposal requirements (including potentially
applicable requirements adopted in states such as Massachusetts and Nevada); online privacy laws (such as a law in effect in California); and laws relating to the confidentiality of certain types of data (such as laws governing certain
health-related information and/or Social Security numbers, for which there are also potentially applicable federal laws, rules, regulations, and/or guidance as well). Certain of these requirements may apply to the personal information of our
employees and/or contractors as well as our customers.      Various U.S. federal banking regulatory agencies, and 46 U.S. states,
the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, have enacted data security breach notification requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulator and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the
event of a data security breach. Data breach notification laws are also becoming more prevalent in other parts of the world where we operate, including Japan, South   
         46   

Table of Contents  

Korea, Taiwan, Mexico and Germany. In many countries that have yet to impose data breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and
penalties by data protection authorities to encourage voluntary breach notification and discourage data security breaches.      We
are also subject to certain Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws in other countries in which we operate (including countries in the European Union, Mexico, Canada, Japan and Australia), some of which are more stringent than those
in the United States.      In Europe, European Directive 95/46/EC (commonly referred to as the  Data Protection
Directive ), which has been in place since 1995, provides for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. The Data Protection Directive requires the controller of an
individual s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational steps to protect personal data. More recently, Directive 2009/136/EC (commonly referred to as the  e-Privacy Directive  or
 Cookies Directive ) introduced new requirements on the collection and use of data about internet users and required Member States to enact national laws to comply with such requirements. Compliance with data protection laws in Europe and
elsewhere could result in higher technology, administrative and other costs for the Company and limit our ability to optimize the use of our closed-loop data.      The European Commission released on January 25, 2012 the text of its draft proposed data protection framework regulation to replace the EU Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC). If enacted, it may
affect parties, such as the Company, that collect and/or process the personal data of residents of Member States and may result in additional compliance requirements and costs. The draft General Data Protection Regulation proposes, among other
things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches, in certain circumstances, to data subjects and supervisory authorities, applying uniformly across sectors and across the European Union and proposes significant fines for non-compliance with
the proposed regulation s requirements. The proposed regulation may be finalized in late 2013 with an effective date 18-24 months thereafter.      In November 2012, we received approval from the data protection authority in the United Kingdom of our binding corporate rules ( BCR ) for transferring personal data collected in European
Economic Area countries to American Express group companies worldwide. This approval is effective January 28, 2013. It followed a consultation process between the UK authority and the data protection authorities in other countries in Europe and
enables us to proceed with obtaining formal approvals of our BCR from authorities across the European Economic Area.      We
continue our efforts to safeguard the personal information entrusted to us in accordance with applicable Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws, and our internal privacy, data protection and information security-related policies,
including taking steps to reduce the potential for identity theft or other fraud, while seeking to collect and use personal information in an appropriate manner to achieve our business objectives. We also have undertaken measures to assess the level
of access to customer and employee data by our employees, partners and service providers.       Fair Credit Reporting
      The FCRA regulates the disclosure of consumer credit reports by consumer reporting agencies and the use of consumer
credit report information by banks and other companies. Among other things, FCRA places restrictions (with limited exceptions) on the sharing and use of certain personal financial and creditworthiness information of our customers with and by our
affiliates.      The FCRA was significantly amended by the enactment in December 2003 of the FACT Act. The FACT Act requires any
company that receives information concerning a consumer from an affiliate, subject to certain exceptions, to permit the consumer to opt out from having that information used to market the company s products to the consumer. In November 2007,
the federal banking agencies issued a final rule implementing the affiliate marketing provisions of the FACT Act. Companies subject to oversight by these agencies were required to comply with the rule by October 1, 2008. We have implemented
various mechanisms to allow our customers to opt out of affiliate sharing and of marketing by the Company and our affiliates, and we continue to review and enhance these mechanisms to ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and
a favorable customer experience.      The FACT Act further amended the FCRA by adding several new provisions designed to prevent
or decrease identity theft and to improve the accuracy of consumer credit information. The federal banking agencies and the Federal Trade   
         47   

Table of Contents  

Commission ( FTC ) published a final rule in November 2007 requiring financial institutions to implement a program containing reasonable policies and procedures to address the risk of
identity theft and to identify accounts where identity theft is more likely to occur. Companies subject to oversight by the federal banking agencies originally were required to comply with the rule by November 1, 2008, but the FTC suspended
enforcement of its rule through December 31, 2010 pending consideration of legislation by Congress to clarify the scope of entities covered by the law and the implementing regulations. On December 18, 2010, the President signed into law
the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010. Our internal policies and standards, as well as our enterprise-wide data protection, information security and fraud prevention programs, are designed to comply with the new identity theft requirements.
     The FACT Act also imposes duties on both consumer reporting agencies and on businesses that furnish or use information
contained in consumer credit reports. For example, a furnisher of information is required to implement procedures to prevent the reporting of any information that it learns is the result of identity theft. Also, if a consumer disputes the accuracy
of information provided to a consumer reporting agency, the furnisher of that information must conduct an investigation and respond to the consumer in a timely fashion. The federal banking regulatory agencies and the FTC have issued rules that
specify the circumstances under which furnishers of information would be required to investigate disputes regarding the accuracy of the information provided to a consumer reporting agency. The FACT Act also requires grantors of credit that use
consumer credit report information in making a determination to offer a borrower credit on terms that are  materially less favorable  than the terms offered to most of the lender s other customers to notify the borrower that the terms
are based on a consumer credit report. In such a case the borrower is entitled to receive a free copy of the report from the consumer reporting agency. The federal bank regulatory agencies and the FTC have issued rules that specify the circumstances
under which  risk-based pricing  notices must be provided to customers and the content, format and timing of such notices. Since July 21, 2011, Dodd-Frank requires the addition of certain information about credit scores to
 risk-based pricing  notices and to adverse action notices otherwise required by the FCRA. Grantors of credit using prescreened consumer credit report information in credit solicitations are also required to include an enhanced notice to
consumers that they have the right to opt out from receiving further prescreened offers of credit. The enactment of the FACT Act and the promulgation of rules implementing it are not expected to have a significant impact on our business or
practices.       The CARD Act       We are subject to the provisions of the legislation known as the CARD Act, which was enacted in May 2009. The CARD Act regulates credit card billing practices, pricing, disclosure and other practices.
Among other things, the CARD Act and related regulations prohibit issuers from treating a payment as late for any purpose, including imposing a penalty interest rate or late fee, unless a consumer has been provided a  reasonable amount of
time  to make the payment. It also requires issuers to apply payment amounts in excess of the minimum payment first to the balance with the highest annual percentage rates ( APRs ) and then to balances with lower APRs. In addition,
the CARD Act prohibits an issuer from increasing the APR on outstanding balances, except in limited circumstances such as when a promotional rate expires, a variable rate adjusts, or an account is seriously delinquent or completes a workout
arrangement. The CARD Act also requires that penalty fees be reasonable and proportional.      The CARD Act also requires issuers
to maintain reasonable written policies to consider a consumer s income or assets and current obligations prior to opening an account or increasing a credit line. In addition, applicants for new accounts who are under the age of 21 must
demonstrate an independent ability to make the required minimum periodic payments. The Federal Reserve issued clarifications to its rules implementing the CARD Act effective October 1, 2011, which include a requirement that applicants who are 21 and
over must also demonstrate an independent ability to make the required monthly minimum payments and provide that issuers may consider household income or assets only under specific conditions.   
  The CARD Act requires issuers to periodically reevaluate APR increases to determine if a decrease is appropriate. The obligation to
periodically reevaluate APR increases commenced in February 2011 and is ongoing.      Certain provisions of the CARD Act also
apply to stored value and prepaid products sold on or after August 22, 2010. In March 2010, the Federal Reserve amended its Regulation E to impose new restrictions on the ability to impose dormancy, inactivity or service fees with respect to
gift certificates, store gift cards and general-use prepaid cards issued primarily for personal use. Such fees may only be imposed under certain conditions. Additionally, the rules prohibit the sale or issuance of
  
         48   

Table of Contents  

a gift certificate, store gift card or general-use prepaid card that has an expiration date of less than five years after either the date a certificate or card is issued or the date on which
funds were last loaded. The rules also require implementation of policies and procedures to give consumers a reasonable opportunity to purchase a certificate or card with at least five years before the certificate or card expiration date, prohibit
any fees for replacing an expired certificate or card or refunding the remaining balance as long as the underlying funds remain valid, and require additional disclosures for any fee other than a dormancy, inactivity or service fee.   
   Anti-Money Laundering Compliance       American Express is subject to a significant number of AML laws and regulations as a result of being a financial company headquartered in the United States, as well as having a global presence. In the
United States, the majority of AML requirements is derived from the Bank Secrecy Act, as it has been amended by the Patriot Act. In Europe, AML requirements are largely the result of countries transposing the 3   rd    European Union Money Laundering Directive (and preceding EU Money
Laundering Directives) into local laws and regulations. We anticipate the passage of the 4th European Money Laundering Directive in 2013, which may add new AML requirements. Numerous other countries, such as Australia, Canada, Mexico and Argentina,
have also enacted or proposed new or enhanced AML legislation and regulations applicable to American Express.      The
underpinnings of these laws and regulations are the efforts of each government to prevent the financial system from being used by criminals to hide their illicit proceeds and to impede terrorists  ability to access and move funds used in
support of terrorist activities. Among other things, these laws and regulations require financial institutions to establish AML programs that meet certain standards, including, in some instances, expanded reporting, particularly in the area of
suspicious transactions, and enhanced information gathering and recordkeeping requirements. Any errors, failures or delays in complying with federal, state or foreign AML and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and
civil lawsuits, penalties and forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions.      American Express has established
and continues to maintain a Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy, designed to ensure that, at a minimum, American Express and all of its businesses are in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations related to AML and anti-terrorist
financing initiatives. The American Express Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy requires that each American Express business maintains a compliance program that provides for a system of internal controls to ensure that appropriate due diligence and,
when necessary, enhanced due diligence, including obtaining and maintaining appropriate documentation, is conducted at account opening and updated, as necessary, through the course of the customer relationship. The Global Anti-Money Laundering
Policy is also designed to ensure there are appropriate methods of monitoring transactions and account relationships to identify potentially suspicious activity and reporting suspicious activity to governmental authorities in accordance with
applicable laws, rules and regulations. In addition, the American Express Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy requires the training of appropriate personnel with regard to AML and anti-terrorist financing issues and provides for independent testing
to ensure that the Global Anti-Money Laundering Policy is in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.       Office
of Foreign Assets Control Regulation       The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with
designated foreign countries, nationals and others. The United States prohibits U.S. persons from engaging with individuals and entities identified as  Specially Designated Nationals,  such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. These
prohibitions are administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ) and are typically known as the OFAC rules. The OFAC rules prohibit U.S. persons from engaging in financial transactions
with or relating to the prohibited individual, entity or country, require the blocking of assets in which the individual, entity or country has an interest, and prohibit transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in
the possession or control of U.S. persons) to such individual, entity or country. Blocked assets (e.g., property or bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. We maintain a global
sanctions program designed to ensure compliance with OFAC requirements. Failure to comply with such requirements could subject us to serious legal and reputational consequences, including criminal penalties.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

    Compensation Practices    
  Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC and the
OTS jointly issued final guidance on sound incentive compensation policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by the Federal Reserve, including bank holding companies, such as the Company, as well as all insured depository
institutions, including Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. The final guidance sets forth three key principles for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage excessive risk-taking
and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking organizations. The three principles provide that a banking organization s incentive compensation arrangements should (1) provide incentives that appropriately balance risk and
financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risks, (2) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance,
including active and effective oversight by the organization s board of directors. Any deficiencies in compensation practices of a banking institution that are identified by the Federal Reserve or other bank regulatory agencies in connection
with its review of such organization s compensation practices may be incorporated into the organization s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The final guidance provides that
enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization s safety and soundness and the organization is
not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.      Additionally, in 2011, the Federal Reserve, the OCC,
the FDIC, the OTS, the SEC, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the National Credit Union Administration issued proposed rulemaking pursuant to Dodd-Frank on incentive-based compensation practices. Under the proposed rule, all financial
institutions with total consolidated assets of $1 billion or more (such as the Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB) would be prohibited from offering incentive-based compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by offering
 excessive  compensation or compensation that could lead the company to material financial loss. All covered institutions would be required to provide federal regulators with additional disclosures to determine compliance with the proposed
rule and also to maintain policies and procedures to ensure compliance. Additionally, for covered institutions with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets, such as the Company, the proposed rule requires that at least 50% of certain
executive officers  incentive-based compensation be deferred for a minimum of three years and provides for the adjustment of deferred payments to reflect actual losses or other measures of performance that become known during the deferral
period. Moreover, the board of directors of a covered institution with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets must identify employees who have authority to expose an institution to substantial risk, evaluate and document the
incentive-based compensation methods used to balance risk and financial rewards for the identified employees, and approve incentive-based compensation arrangements for those employees after appropriately considering other available methods for
balancing risk and financial rewards. The form and timing of any final rule cannot be determined at this time.      The scope and
content of these policies and regulations on executive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies and regulations will
adversely affect the ability of American Express and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate its and their key employees.   
   Anti-Corruption       We are subject to complex international and U.S. anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the  FCPA ), the UK Bribery Act and other laws that
prohibit the making or offering of improper payments. The FCPA makes it illegal to corruptly offer or provide anything of value to foreign government officials, political parties or political party officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining
business or an improper advantage. The anti-bribery provisions of the FCPA are enforced by DOJ. The FCPA also requires us to strictly comply with certain accounting and internal controls standards, which are enforced by the SEC. In recent years, DOJ
and SEC enforcement of the FCPA has become more intense. The UK Bribery Act, which took effect in July 2011, also prohibits commercial bribery, and the receipt of a bribe, and makes it a corporate offense to fail to prevent bribery by an associated
person, in addition to prohibiting improper payments to foreign government officials. Failure to comply with the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and other laws can expose us and/or individual employees to potentially severe criminal and civil penalties.
The risk may be greater when we transact business, whether through subsidiaries or joint ventures or other partnerships, in countries with higher perceived levels of corruption. We have risk-based policies and procedures designed to detect and deter
prohibited   
         50   

Table of Contents  

practices, provide specialized training, monitor our operations and payments, and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the manner in which transactions are
recorded. However, if our employees, contractors or agents fail to comply with applicable laws governing our international operations, the Company, as well as individual employees, may face investigations or prosecutions, which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.         FOREIGN
OPERATIONS       We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the use of our Card products, Travelers Cheques, travel
and other financial products and services in countries outside the United States and continue to broaden the use of these products and services outside the United States. (For a discussion of our revenue by geographic region, see Note 25 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements, which you can find on pages 108-110 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders and which is incorporated herein by reference.) Our revenues can be affected by political and economic conditions in these
countries (including the availability of foreign exchange for the payment by the local Card issuer of obligations arising out of local Cardmembers  spending outside such country, for the payment of Card bills by Cardmembers who are billed in a
currency other than their local currency, and for the remittance of the proceeds of Travelers Cheque sales). Substantial and sudden devaluation of local Cardmembers  currency can also affect their ability to make payments to the local issuer of
the Card in connection with spending outside the local country.      As a result of our foreign operations, we are exposed to the
possibility that, because of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar may be realized in amounts greater or less than the U.S. dollar amounts at which they are
currently recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Examples of transactions in which this may occur include the purchase by Cardmembers of goods and services in a currency other than the currency in which they are billed; the sale in one
currency of a Travelers Cheque denominated in a second currency; and, in most instances, investments in foreign operations. These risks, unless properly monitored and managed, could have an adverse effect on our operations. For more information on
how we manage risk relating to foreign exchange, see  Risk Management   Market Risk Management Process  on pages 39-40 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
        SEGMENT INFORMATION AND CLASSES OF SIMILAR SERVICES    
  You can find information regarding the Company s reportable operating segments, geographic operations and classes of similar
services in Note 25 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which appears on pages 108-110 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which Note is incorporated herein by reference.   
     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY    
  Set forth below in alphabetical order is a list of all our executive officers as of February 22, 2013. None of our executive
officers has any family relationship with any other executive officer, and none of our executive officers became an officer pursuant to any arrangement or understanding with any other person. Each executive officer has been elected to serve until
the next annual election of officers or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. Each officer s age is indicated by the number in parentheses next to his or her name.   

DOUGLAS E. BUCKMINSTER      
  President, International Consumer and Global Network Services        Mr. Buckminster (52) has been President, International Consumer and Global Network Services since February 2012. He has been President, International Consumer and Small Business Services of the
Company since November 2009. Prior thereto he had been Executive Vice President, International Consumer Products and Marketing since July 2002.       

JAMES BUSH      
  Executive Vice President, World Service        Mr. Bush
(54) has been Executive Vice President, World Service since October 2009. Prior thereto, he served as Executive Vice President, U.S. Service Delivery Network since June 2005. Prior thereto, he served as Regional President for the Japan,
Asia/Pacific, Australia region since September 2001.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

KENNETH I. CHENAULT      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer        Mr. Chenault
(61) has been Chairman since April 2001 and Chief Executive Officer since January 2001.       

L. KEVIN COX      
  Chief Human Resources Officer        Mr. Cox (48) has
been Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company since May 2012. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company since April 2005.       

EDWARD P. GILLIGAN      
  Vice Chairman        Mr. Gilligan (53) has been Vice
Chairman of the Company and head of the Company s Global Consumer and Small Business Card Issuing, Network and Merchant businesses since October 2009. Prior thereto, he had been Vice Chairman of the Company and head of the Company s Global
Business to Business Group since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Group President, American Express International   Global Corporate Services since July 2005.   

WILLIAM H. GLENN      
  President, Global Corporate Payments and Business Travel     
  Mr. Glenn (55) has been President, Global Corporate Payments and Business Travel since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been
President, Global Merchant Services since June 2007. Prior thereto, he had been President of Merchant Services North America and Global Merchant Network Group since September 2002.   

MARC D. GORDON      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer     
  Mr. Gordon (52) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer since September 2012. Mr. Gordon joined
American Express from Bank of America, where he served as Enterprise Chief Information Officer from December 2011 until April 2012. Prior thereto, he had been Chief Technology Officer, Global Delivery Operation at Bank of America from May 2008
until November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been Chief Information Officer, Global Consumer Bank at Bank of America from September 2004 until April 2008.       

ASH GUPTA      
  Chief Risk Officer and President, Risk and Information Management        Mr. Gupta (59) has been President of Risk and Information Management and Chief Risk Officer since July 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the
Company since July 2003.       

JOHN D. HAYES      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer     
  Mr. Hayes (58) has been Executive Vice President since May 1995 and Chief Marketing Officer of the Company since August 2003.

DANIEL T. HENRY      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     
  Mr. Henry (63) has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since October 2007.   

LOUISE M. PARENT      
  Executive Vice President and General Counsel     
  Ms. Parent (62) has been Executive Vice President and General Counsel since May 1993.   

THOMAS SCHICK      
  Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs     
  Mr. Schick (66) has been Executive Vice President, Corporate and External Affairs since March 1993.   

DANIEL H. SCHULMAN      
  Group President, Enterprise Growth        Mr. Schulman
(55) has been Group President, Enterprise Growth since August 2010. Mr. Schulman joined American Express from Sprint Nextel Corporation, where he served as President of the Prepaid group from 2009 until August 2010. Before joining Sprint,
Mr. Schulman was the founding CEO of Virgin Mobile USA, a mobile virtual operator, acquired by Sprint in 2009. Prior to that he was CEO of priceline.com and spent the early part of his career with AT T, where he ultimately led the
company s consumer long distance business.       

JOSHUA G. SILVERMAN      
  President, U.S. Consumer Services        Mr. Silverman
(44) has been President, U.S. Consumer Services since July 2011. Before joining American Express, Mr. Silverman served as Executive in Residence for Greylock Ventures, a venture capital firm, from October 2010 until June 2011.
Mr. Silverman was the Chief Executive Officer of Skype from March 2008 until October 2010. Prior to that he was a senior executive at eBay from 2003 until 2008 and was Chief Executive Officer and co-founder of Evite, the social event planning
site, which he ran until it was sold to IAC in 2001.   
         52   

Table of Contents  

STEPHEN J. SQUERI      
  Group President, Global Corporate Services     
  Mr. Squeri (53) has been Group President, Global Corporate Services since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been Group
President, Global Services since October 2009. From May 2005 to October 2009, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer for the Company. In addition, from July 2008 to September 2010, he was the head of Corporate
Development, overseeing mergers and acquisitions for the Company. Prior thereto, he had been President, Global Commercial Card since February 2002.       

ANR  WILLIAMS      
  President, Global Merchant Services        Mr. Williams
(47) has been President of Global Merchant Services since November 2011. Prior thereto, he had been President of Global Corporate Payments since June 2007. Prior thereto, he had been Executive Vice President of U.S. Commercial Card from January
2004 through May 2007.         EMPLOYEES    
  We had approximately 63,500 employees on December 31, 2012.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

      GUIDE 3   STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK
HOLDING COMPANIES       The accompanying supplemental information should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company s 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. This information excludes discontinued operations unless otherwise
noted.      Beginning the first quarter of 2012, the Company revised the income statement reporting of annual membership card fees
on lending products, increasing net card fees and reducing interest on loans. Corresponding amounts presented in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Refer to Note 1  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  on page 65 of the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders.      Certain other reclassifications of prior
period amounts have been made to conform to the current presentation. The card fees revision previously discussed and these other reclassifications did not have an impact on the Company s financial position or results of operations.   
   Distribution of Assets, Liabilities, and Shareholders  Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential    
  The following tables provide a summary of the Company s consolidated average balances including major categories of interest-earning
assets and interest-bearing liabilities along with an analysis of net interest earnings. Consolidated average balances, interest, and average yields are segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Assets, liabilities, interest income and interest
expense are attributed to U.S. and non-U.S. based on location of the office recording such items.       
 
         54   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Averages based on month end balances, except reserves for cardmember and other receivables/loans, which are based on quarter end averages.     

(d)  
  Average yields for available-for-sale investment securities have been calculated using total amortized cost balances and do not include changes in fair value recorded
in other comprehensive (loss) income. Average yield on non-taxable investment securities is calculated on a tax-equivalent basis using the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent.     

(e)  
  Amounts include (i) average equity securities balances, which are included in investment securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the
associated dividend income. The average yield on other assets has not been shown as it would not be meaningful.         

(f)  
  The average yield on total interest-earning assets is adjusted for the impacts of items mentioned in (c) above.     

(g)  
  Includes premises and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation.     
         55   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Averages based on month end balances.         

(b)  
  Interest expense incurred on derivative instruments in qualifying hedging relationships has been reported along with the related interest expense incurred on the hedged
debt instrument. In 2011 and 2010, for long-term debt, interest expense also included income earned on forward points related to the Company s foreign exchange swaps. This income was $41 million and $33 million in the U.S and $89 million and
$60 million for non-U.S entities, respectively. For 2012 the interest has been reclassified to other, net expenses. The average rates presented exclude the effects for forward points.     

(c)  
  Amounts include (i) average deferred compensation liability balances, which are included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, and (ii) the
associated interest expense. The average rate on other liabilities has not been shown as it would not be meaningful.         

(d)  
  Net average yield on interest-earning assets is defined as net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets as adjusted for the items mentioned in
note (d) on page 55.     
         56   

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Net Interest Income   Volume and Rate Analysis (a)    
  The following table presents the amount of changes in interest income and interest expense due to changes in both average volume and
average rate. Major categories of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities have been segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Average volume/rate changes have been allocated between the average rate and average volume variances
on a consistent basis based upon the respective percentage changes in average balances and average rates.       

(a)  
  Refer to the notes on pages 55 and 56 for additional information.         

(b)  
  Long-term debt volume and rate analysis does not include the impact of income earned on forward points related to the Company s foreign exchange swaps. Refer to
page 56 sub-footnote (b) for further details.     
         57   

Table of Contents  

    Investment Securities Portfolio    
  The following table presents the fair value of the Company s available-for-sale investment securities portfolio. Refer to Note 6
 Investment Securities  on page 79 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information.       
    The following table presents an analysis of remaining contractual maturities and weighted average yields
for available-for-sale investment securities. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a tax-equivalent basis as discussed earlier.       

(a)  
  The expected payments on state and municipal obligations and mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their contractual maturities because the issuers have the
right to call or prepay certain obligations.         

(b)  
  Excludes equity securities and other securities included in the prior table above as these are not debt securities with contractual maturities.

(c)  
  Average yields for available-for-sale investment securities have been calculated using the effective yield on the date of purchase.     
  As of December 31, 2012, no investments exceeded 10 percent of shareholders  equity.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

    Loans and Cardmember Receivables Portfolios    
  The following table presents gross loans, net of unearned income, and gross cardmember receivables by customer type segregated between
U.S. and non-U.S., based on the domicile of the borrowers. Allowance for losses is presented beginning on page 64. Refer to Note 4  Accounts Receivable and Loans  on page 72 and Note 5  Reserve for Losses  on page 77 in the 2012
Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information.       

(a)  
  The increase in U.S. cardmember loans between 2009 and 2010 was due to the adoption of accounting standards related to transfers of financial assets and consolidation
of variable interest entities ( VIEs ), which resulted in the consolidation of the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the  Lending Trust ) beginning January 1, 2010.     

(b)  
  Represents loans to individual and small business consumers.         

(c)  
  Other loans primarily represent loans to merchants and a store card portfolio whose billed business is not processed on the Company s network. Other loans at
December 31, 2008, also included a loan to an affiliate in discontinued operations.         

(d)  
  Represents receivables from individual and small business charge card consumers.     

(e)  
  Represents receivables from corporate charge card clients.     
         59   

Table of Contents  

    Maturities and Sensitivities to Changes in Interest Rates    
  The following table presents contractual maturities of loans and cardmember receivables by customer type and segregated between U.S. and
non-U.S. borrowers, and distribution between fixed and floating interest rates for loans due after one year based upon the stated terms of the loan agreements.       

(a)  
  Cardmember loans have no stated maturity and are therefore included in the due within one year category. However, many of the Company s Cardmembers will revolve
their balances, which may extend their repayment period beyond one year for balances due at December 31, 2012.         

(b)  
  Cardmember receivables are immediately due upon receipt of Cardmember statements and have no stated interest rate and are included within the due within one year
category. Receivables due after one year represent modification programs classified as Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs), wherein the terms of a receivable have been modified for Cardmembers that are experiencing financial difficulties and a
long-term concession (more than 12 months) has been granted to the borrower.         

(c)  
  Cardmember and other loans due after one year primarily represent installment loans and approximately $145 million of TDRs.     
   Cardmember Loan and Cardmember Receivable Concentrations       The following table presents the Company s exposure to any concentration of gross cardmember loans and cardmember receivables which exceeds 10 percent of total cardmember loans and cardmember
receivables. Cardmember loan and cardmember receivable concentrations are defined as cardmember loans and cardmember receivables due from multiple borrowers engaged in similar activities that would cause these borrowers to be impacted similarly to
certain economic or other related conditions.       

(a)  
  Refer to Note 22  Significant Credit Concentrations  on page 105 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information on concentrations,
including exposure to the airline industry, and for a discussion of how the Company manages concentration exposures. Certain distinctions between categories require management judgment.     
         60   

Table of Contents  

(b)  
  Includes corporate charge card receivables of $771 million from financial institutions, $24 million from U.S. Government agencies and $13 billion from other corporate
institutions.         

(c)  
  The Company s charge card products generally have no pre-set limit, and therefore are not reflected in unused credit available to Cardmembers.
        Risk Elements       The following table presents the amounts of non-performing loans and cardmember receivables that are either non-accrual, past due, or restructured, segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers. Past due
loans are loans that are contractually past due 90 days or more as to principal or interest payments. Restructured loans and cardmember receivables are those that meet the definition of TDR.   

(a)  
  The increase in non-performing loans between 2009 and 2010 was due to the adoption of accounting standards related to transfers of financial assets and consolidation of
VIEs, which resulted in the consolidation of the Lending Trust beginning January 1, 2010. As a result of these changes, amounts as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 include impaired loans and receivables for both the American Express
Issuance Trust (the  Charge Trust ) and the Lending Trust; correspondingly, 2009 and 2008 amounts only include impaired loans and receivables for the Charge Trust and the seller s interest portion of the Lending Trust.

(b)  
  The Company s policy is generally to cease accruing interest income once a related cardmember loan is 180 days past due at which time the cardmember loan is
written off. The Company establishes loan loss reserves for estimated uncollectible interest receivable balances prior to write-off. For the U.S., as of December 31, 2009, these amounts primarily include certain cardmember loans placed with
outside collection agencies.         

(c)  
  Represents modification programs classified as TDRs, wherein the terms of a loan or receivable have been modified for Cardmembers that are experiencing financial
difficulties and a concession has been granted to the borrower. Such modifications to the loans and receivables may include (i) reducing the interest rate (as low as zero percent, in which case the loan is characterized as non-accrual in the
Company s TDR disclosures), (ii) reducing the outstanding balance (in the event of a settlement), (iii) suspending delinquency fees until the Cardmember exits the TDR program, and (iv) placing the Cardmember on a fixed payment
plan not exceeding 60 months. Upon entering the modification program, the Cardmember s ability to make future purchases is either cancelled, or in certain cases suspended until the Cardmember successfully exits the modification program. In
accordance with the modification agreement with the Cardmember, loans revert back to their original contractual terms (including their contractual interest rate) when the Cardmember exits the modification program, either (i) when all payments
have been made in accordance with the modification agreement or (ii) the Cardmember defaults out of the modification program.     
         61   

Table of Contents  

    Impact of Non-performing Loans on Interest Income    
  The following table presents the gross interest income for both non-accrual and restructured loans for 2012 that would have been
recognized if such loans had been current in accordance with their original contractual terms, and had been outstanding throughout the period or since origination if held for only part of 2012. The table also presents the interest income related to
these loans that was actually recognized for the period. These amounts are segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.       

(a)  
  Based on the contractual rate that was being charged at the time the loan was restructured or placed on non-accrual status.     
   Potential Problem Receivables       This disclosure presents outstanding amounts as well as specific reserves for certain receivables where information about possible credit problems of borrowers causes management to have serious doubts as
to the ability of such borrowers to comply with the present repayment terms. At December 31, 2012, the Company did not identify any potential problem loans or receivables within the cardmember loans and receivables portfolio that were not
already included in  Risk Elements  above.       Cross-border Outstandings    
  Cross-border disclosure is based upon the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council s ( FFIEC ) guidelines
governing the determination of cross-border risk. The Company has adopted the FFIEC guidelines for its cross-border disclosure starting with 2009 reporting.      The primary differences between the FFIEC and Guide 3 guidelines for reporting cross-border exposure are: i) available-for-sale investment securities are reported based on amortized cost for FFIEC instead
of fair value for Guide 3; ii) net local country claims are reduced by local country liabilities (regardless of currency denomination) excluding any debt that is funding the local assets through a foreign domiciled subsidiary for FFIEC compared to
Guide 3 where only amounts in the same currencies are offset and such debt noted above is a reduction to local country claims; iii) the FFIEC methodology includes mark-to-market exposures of derivative assets, which are excluded under Guide 3; and
iv) investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries are included under FFIEC but excluded under Guide 3.      The following table
presents the aggregate amount of cross-border outstandings from borrowers or counterparties for each foreign country that exceeds 1 percent of consolidated total assets for any of the periods reported below. Cross-border outstandings include loans,
receivables, interest-bearing deposits with other banks, other interest-bearing investments and other monetary assets that are denominated in either dollars or other non-local currency.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

   The table separately presents the amounts of cross-border outstandings by type of borrower
including governments and official institutions, banks and other financial institutions and other, along with an analysis of local country assets net of local country liabilities.   

(a)  
  Cross-border outstandings between 0.75 percent and 1.0 percent of consolidated total assets are included in Other Countries. For comparability, countries that meet the
threshold for any year presented are included for all years. For all three periods, the only country included is France.         

(b)  
  Generally, all charge and credit cards have revocable lines of credit, and therefore, are not disclosed as cross-border commitments. Refer to loan concentrations on
page 60 for amount of unused lines of credit.     
         63   

Table of Contents  

    Summary of Loan Loss Experience   Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses
      The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s allowance for cardmember loan losses. The table
segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.       

(a)  
  Refer to Note 5  Reserves for Losses  on page 77 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of management s process for evaluating
allowance for loan losses.         

(b)  
  The Company presents a net write-off rate based on principal losses only (i.e., excluding interest and fees) to be consistent with industry convention. In
addition, because the Company s practice is to include uncollectible interest and fees as part of its total provision for losses, a net write-off rate including principal, interest and fees is also presented.     

(c)  
  These amounts include net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions and foreign currency translation adjustments. The amount for 2009 included $160 million of
reserves, that were removed in the reclassification in connection with securitizations during the year. The offset is in the allocated cost of the associated retained subordinated securities.     

(d)  
  Average cardmember loans are based on month end balances.     
         64   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s allowance for other loan
losses. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.       

(a)  
  Provisions for other loan losses are determined based on a specific identification methodology and models that analyze specific portfolio statistics.

(b)  
  Includes primarily foreign currency translation adjustments.         

(c)  
  The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is based on write-offs of principal and fees. Average other loans are based on month end balances.
    
         65   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the changes to the Company s allowance for losses on
cardmember receivables. The table segregates such changes between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.       
 
         66   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Refer to Note 5  Reserves for Losses  on page 77 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of management s process for evaluating
allowance for receivable losses.         

(b)  
  In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company revised the time period in which past due cardmember receivables in U.S. Card Services are written off to 180 days past due,
consistent with applicable regulatory guidance. Previously, receivables were written off when 360 days past billing. The net write-offs for 2008 include approximately $341 million resulting from this write-off methodology change.

(c)  
  For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, trend amounts include net write-offs related to unauthorized transactions and, for all periods, foreign
currency translation adjustments.         

(d)  
  The net write-off rate presented is on a worldwide basis and is based on write-offs of principal and fees. Averages are based on month end balances.
    
         67   

Table of Contents  

    Allocation of Allowance for Losses    
  The following table presents an allocation of the allowance for losses for loans and cardmember receivables and the percent of loans and
cardmember receivables in each category of total loans and cardmember receivables, respectively, by customer type. The table segregates loans and cardmember receivables and related allowances for losses between U.S. and non-U.S. borrowers.
      
     Customer Deposits       The following table presents the average balances and average interest rates paid for types of customer deposits segregated between U.S. and non-U.S. offices. Refer to Note 9  Customer Deposits 
on page 83 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for additional information.       

(a)  
  Averages are based on month end balances.         

(b)  
  Other U.S. customer deposits include primarily non-interest-bearing and interest-bearing demand deposits.     

(c)  
  None of these customer deposit categories exceeded 10 percent of average total customer deposits for any of the periods presented.     
         68   

Table of Contents  

    Time Certificates of Deposit of $100,000 or More    
  The following table presents the amount of time certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more issued by the Company in its U.S. offices,
further segregated by time remaining until maturity.       
    As of December 31, 2012, time certificates of deposit and other time deposits in amounts of $100,000 or more issued
by non-U.S. offices was $352 million.       Return on Equity and Assets    
  The following table presents the Company s return on average total assets, return on average shareholders  equity, dividend
payout ratio, and average shareholders  equity to average total assets ratio.       

(a)  
  Based on the year s net income as a percentage of average total assets calculated using month end average balances.     

(b)  
  Based on the year s net income as a percentage of average shareholders  equity calculated using month end average balances.     

(c)  
  Calculated on the year s dividends declared per share as a percentage of the year s net income per basic share.     
   Short-term Borrowings       The following table presents amounts and weighted average rates for categories of short-term borrowings. Refer to Note 10  Debt  on page 84 in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for
additional information.       

(b)  
  Does not include non-interest-bearing short-term borrowings (i.e., book overdrafts).     
  Short-term borrowings, including commercial paper and federal funds purchased, are defined as any debt instrument with an original
maturity of 12 months or less. Commercial paper generally is issued in amounts not less than $100,000 and with maturities of 270 days or less.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited
to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.      If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.       Current Economic and Political Risks         Difficult conditions in the business and
economic environment, as well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.        Our results of operations are materially affected by economic and market conditions, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. Ongoing concerns over elevated levels of unemployment,
European sovereign debt, budget discussions in Washington, decelerating growth in China and geopolitical issues continue to impact global economies and markets. This environment and the uncertain expectations for an economic recovery have had, and
may continue to have, an adverse effect on us, in part because we are very dependent upon consumer and business behavior. A prolonged period of slow economic growth or deterioration in economic conditions could change customer behaviors further. For
example, Cardmembers could decide to redeem Membership Rewards points at abnormally high levels to replace expenditures using other forms of payment.      Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and other energy costs, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all
affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending is
likely to materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the factors discussed above may cause our earnings, credit metrics and margins to fluctuate and diverge from expectations of analysts
and investors, who may have differing assumptions regarding their impact on our business, and may impact the trading price of our common shares.      Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect our commercial or other lending activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of
certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general
economic downturns.      We held approximately $4.5 billion of investment securities of state and municipal obligations as of
December 31, 2012. In the event that actual default rates of these investment securities were to significantly change from historical patterns due to challenges in the economy or otherwise, it could have a material adverse impact on the value
of our investment portfolio. While we do not have any material exposure to European sovereign debt as of December 31, 2012, economic disruptions in other countries, even in countries in which we do not conduct business or have operations, could
adversely affect us.      If the conditions described above (or similar ones) were to persist or worsen, we could experience
continuing or increased adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.        Adverse capital and credit market
conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.        The
global money and capital markets, while demonstrating generally improved conditions, remain susceptible to volatility and disruption, which could negatively impact market liquidity conditions.   
         70   

Table of Contents  

   We need liquidity to pay merchants, operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on
capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments from Cardmembers and
merchants, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash, direct and third-party sourced deposits, debt instruments such as unsecured medium- and long-term notes and
asset securitizations, securitized borrowings through our secured financing facilities, the Federal Reserve discount window and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities. Policies of the United States and other governments regarding banking,
monetary and fiscal policies intended to promote or maintain liquidity and/or stabilize financial markets may not be effective.   
  Our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on investor
demand. Notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune from pressures experienced broadly across the financial markets. The fragility of the credit markets and the current economic and regulatory environment have impacted financial
services companies. Although the market for our unsecured term debt and asset securitizations has improved, there is no assurance that the markets will be open to us in the future. For example, recent concerns regarding U.S. debt and budget matters
and the sovereign debt crisis in Europe have caused uncertainty in financial markets. A further downgrade of U.S. debt ratings in the future could, in addition to causing economic and financial market disruptions, materially adversely affect our
ability to access capital markets on favorable terms, as well as have other material adverse effects on the operation of our business and our financial results and condition. The impact of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe on financial
institutions in Europe and globally could also have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally. In addition, our liquidity position will be impacted by our ability to meet our objectives with respect to the maintenance and growth of our
direct and third-party sourced deposit programs. We also would have less flexibility in accessing the commercial paper market as a short-term funding vehicle in the event of a downgrade in Credco s short-term debt rating and volatility in the
commercial paper market generally.      In the event that current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy
our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit and consumer deposits, the overall availability
of credit to the financial services industry, new regulatory restrictions and requirements, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in April 2009 by two of the major ratings agencies) and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders or
depositors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to an economic downturn.   
  While we have experienced positive credit trends since the latter half of 2009, if the performance of our charge Card and credit Card
portfolios were to weaken through increasing delinquencies and write-offs, our long-term and short-term debt ratings could be downgraded and our access to capital could be materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could increase.
Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities,
satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital or bear an unattractive cost to raise capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly
reduce financial flexibility. If levels of market disruption and volatility worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.      For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see  Financial
Review   Funding Programs and Activities  on pages 32-35 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.        We can be adversely affected by the impairment of other financial institutions.        Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are
interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies.
Defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by one or
more of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

     Any reduction in the Company s and its subsidiaries  credit ratings could increase the cost
of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.        Although the Company s and its subsidiaries  long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt were downgraded during the second quarter
of 2009 by Moody s Investors Services ( Moody s ) and Standard   Poor s ( S P ), two of the major rating agencies. The rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company and its subsidiaries, and their
ratings of the Company s and its subsidiaries  long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including their financial strength as well as factors not entirely within their control, including conditions affecting the
financial services industry generally, and the wider state of the economy. There can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain their current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other things,
adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the Company and its subsidiaries are able to obtain funding.      We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company s and its subsidiaries  ratings could be downgraded at any time
and without any notice by any of the rating agencies.        Adverse currency fluctuations, foreign exchange controls and continued concerns
regarding European sovereign debt and the continuation of the euro as a currency could decrease earnings we receive from our international operations and impact our capital.     
  During 2012, approximately 30% of our total revenues net of interest expense were generated from activities outside the United States. We
are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the
U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into
U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   
  Concerns persist regarding the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations, the overall
stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. These concerns may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate more widely than in the
past and could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro currency entirely. If there is a significant devaluation of the euro and
we are unable to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro, the value of our euro-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into U.S. dollars for inclusion in our financial statements.
Similarly, the re-introduction of certain individual country currencies or the complete dissolution of the euro could adversely affect the value of our euro-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. The re-introduction of individual country
currencies would require us to reconfigure our billing and other systems to reflect individual country currencies in place of the euro. Implementing such changes could be costly and failures in the currency reconfiguration could cause disruptions in
our normal business operations. In addition, foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge our market exposure to re-introduced currencies may not be immediately available or may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us.   
  The potential developments regarding Europe and the euro, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could continue to
have an adverse impact on consumer and business behavior in Europe and globally, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed above, concerns over the effect of this
financial crisis on financial institutions in Europe and globally could have an adverse impact on the capital markets generally.   
         72   

Table of Contents  

    Legal and Regulatory Risks         Ongoing legal proceedings regarding the Company s non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions in merchant contracts could require changes to those provisions that could result in a
material loss of revenue or increased expenses, substantial monetary judgments and/or damage to the Company s global reputation and brand.        The DOJ and certain states  attorneys general have brought an action against the Company alleging that the provisions in the Company s Card acceptance agreements with merchants that prohibit
merchants from discriminating against the Company s Card products at the point of sale violate the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and MasterCard, which were also defendants in the DOJ and state action, entered into a settlement and have been
dismissed as parties pursuant to that agreement, which was approved by the Court. The settlement enjoins Visa and MasterCard from entering into contracts that prohibit merchants from engaging in various actions to steer cardholders to other card
products or payment forms at the point of sale. In addition, the Company is a defendant in a number of actions, including proposed class actions filed by merchants that challenge the Company s non-discrimination and honor-all-cards provisions
in its merchant contracts. A description of these legal proceedings is contained in  Legal Proceedings  below. An adverse outcome in any of these proceedings against the Company could materially and adversely impact the profitability of
the Company, require it to change its merchant agreements in a way that could expose the Company s card products to steering, selective acceptance or other forms of discrimination at the point of sale that would impair our Cardmembers 
experience, threaten the imposition of substantial monetary damages, and/or damage the Company s global reputation and brand. Even if the Company were not required to change its merchant agreements, changes in Visa s and MasterCard s
policies or practices as a result of legal proceedings, lawsuit settlements or regulatory actions could result in changes to our business practices and materially and adversely impact the Company s profitability.   
    The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business, results of
operations and financial condition.        Dodd-Frank, as well as regulations promulgated thereunder, may continue to have a
significant adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition by, for example, requiring us to change our business practices, requiring us to comply with more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements,
limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, imposing additional costs on us (including increased compliance costs and increased costs of funding raised through the issuance of asset-backed securities), limiting the fees we can charge for
services, impacting the value of our assets, and increasing our collateral posting requirements on interest rate and currency swaps we enter. A description of certain provisions of Dodd-Frank and other legislative and regulatory developments is
contained in  Supervision and Regulation  above. In particular, because the Company and TRS are large bank holding companies they will be subject to the restrictions discussed above under  Financial Holding Company Status and
Activities   Heightened Prudential Requirements for Large Bank Holding Companies  under  Supervision and Regulation  above.      Dodd-Frank has resulted in increased scrutiny and oversight of consumer financial services and products, primarily through the establishment of the CFPB. The CFPB has broad rulemaking and enforcement
authority over providers of credit, savings and payment services and products and authority to prevent  unfair, deceptive or abusive  practices. The CFPB has the authority to write regulations under federal consumer financial protection
laws, and to enforce those laws against and examine for compliance large financial institutions like the Company, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB. It is also authorized to collect fines and require consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage
in consumer financial education, track consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. Our compliance with such regulations could result in increased costs to the Company
and may require additional attention from the Company s senior management. Likewise, any failure to follow such regulations may result in restitution to Cardmembers or regulatory actions, including civil money penalties. In addition to
increasing our compliance costs, CFPB oversight has resulted, and is likely to continue to result, in changes to pricing, practices, products and procedures and may potentially impair our ability to respond to marketplace changes. Such changes could
make our products and services less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably. Such changes could also have an adverse effect on the Company s brand and reputation. See   Litigation and regulatory actions
could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses   below.      Many provisions of Dodd-Frank, including numerous provisions not described above, require the adoption of rules to implement. In addition, Dodd-Frank mandates multiple studies, which could result in
additional legislative or regulatory   
         73   

Table of Contents  

action. Therefore, the ultimate consequences of Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations on the Company s business, results of operations and financial condition remain uncertain.
       Our business is subject to significant and extensive government regulation and supervision, which could adversely affect our results of
operations and financial condition.        On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and TRS each became bank
holding companies under the BHC Act and elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, including, without limitation,
consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two U.S. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities, investments and
acquisitions under the Federal Reserve s regulations.      Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect
depositors  funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of our shareholders or creditors. If we fail to satisfy regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies that have
elected to be treated as financial holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and we may be restricted in our ability to take certain capital actions (such as declaring dividends or repurchasing
outstanding shares) or engage in certain activities or acquisitions. Additionally, our banking regulators have wide discretion in the examination and the enforcement of applicable banking statutes and regulations, and may restrict our ability to
engage in certain activities or acquisitions, or may require us to maintain more capital.      In addition to the regulatory risks
discussed elsewhere, we are also subject to extensive government regulation and supervision in jurisdictions around the world, both as a participant in the financial services industry and otherwise. Among other things, as a result of regulators
enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be fined, required to pay restitution, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities or subjected to new or
substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. Regulatory action could cause significant damage to our global reputation and brand and any change to our
business practices that makes our products and services less attractive to our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and
unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. As a result, the profitability of our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected.
     There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to
our businesses may be imposed, which could impact the profitability of our business activities, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, require us to change certain of our business practices or alter our relationships with customers,
affect retention of our key personnel, or expose us to additional costs (including increased compliance costs). Such changes also may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes and could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 required us to make fundamental changes to many of our business practices, including marketing,
underwriting, pricing and billing. We have made changes to Card product terms and practices that are designed to comply with, and mitigate the impact of the changes required by, the CARD Act; however, there is no assurance that such changes will
continue to be successful. In the event the CARD Act constrains our ability to respond to economic, market and other conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including our revenue and net income.   
  Many of our competitors are subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legislative and regulatory regimes. The more
restrictive laws and regulations applicable to U.S. financial institutions like us can put us at a competitive disadvantage to non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and non-U.S. competitors, including prohibiting us from engaging
in certain transactions, making the pricing of our products and services more expensive or adversely affecting our cost structure.      See  Supervision and Regulation  above for more information about the regulations to which we are subject.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

     Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments and/or
requirements resulting in increased expenses.        Businesses in the payments industry have historically been subject to
significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or punitive damages. In addition, we may be involved in various actions or proceedings brought by
governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting in increased expenses and damage to our global reputation and our brand.
We may also have to change our pricing, practices, products and procedures in response to pending or future litigation or regulatory action. The current environment of additional regulation, increased regulatory compliance efforts and enhanced
regulatory enforcement has resulted in significant operational and compliance costs and may limit our ability to continue providing certain products and services.      In October 2012, we announced that we reached settlements with several bank regulators to resolve reviews of certain aspects of our U.S. consumer card practices for compliance with certain consumer
protection laws and regulations. Similar settlements were reached with several of our subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and TRS. The American Express entities agreed to pay civil money penalties totaling $27.5 million and we, through
our subsidiaries, established a restricted fund pool totaling $85 million for customer refunds (subject to adjustment depending on the ultimate amount of the refunds). The majority of those refunds are related to debt collection practices and late
fee charges. In connection with the settlements, ongoing discussions with regulators and our own internal reviews, we and our subsidiaries have made and continue to make changes to certain of our card practices and products, which have resulted, and
are likely to continue to result, in additional restitution to Cardmembers and may result in additional regulatory actions, which could include civil money penalties. Further action by the CFPB or other banking regulators could result in significant
reputational harm or fines, or may prevent us from engaging in certain business activities that would otherwise be permitted.        We are
subject to capital adequacy rules, and if we fail to meet these rules, our financial condition would be adversely affected.        Under regulatory capital adequacy rules and other regulatory requirements, the Company, TRS and our U.S. subsidiary depository institutions, Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, must meet rules for capital adequacy
and leverage ratios that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. As discussed in  Financial
Holding Company Status and Activities   Capital Adequacy  under  Supervision and Regulation  above, the capital requirements applicable to the Company and TRS as bank holding companies and our U.S. subsidiary depository
institutions are in the process of being substantially revised, including in connection with our transition to Basel II and as a result of Basel III and the requirements of Dodd-Frank. If the Company, TRS or our U.S. subsidiary depository
institutions fail to meet current or future minimum capital, leverage or other financial requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially adversely affected. In light of recent market events, Dodd-Frank and Basel III, the
Company, TRS and our U.S. subsidiary depository institutions will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent capital adequacy standards than in the past. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. Failure
by any of the Company, TRS or a U.S. subsidiary depository institution to maintain its respective status as  well capitalized  and  well managed,  if unremedied over a period of time, could compromise our competitive position and
could result in restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve, including limiting our ability to pay common stock dividends, repurchase our common stock or invest in our business. For more information on capital adequacy requirements, see
 Financial Holding Company Status and Activities   Capital Adequacy  under  Supervision and Regulation  above.   
    We are subject to restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock.     
  We are limited in our ability to pay dividends by our regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe or
unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the
organization s expected future needs, asset quality and financial condition. We are also subject to a requirement to submit capital plans that include, among other things, projected dividend payments, to the Federal Reserve for review. Guidance
from the Federal Reserve states that our dividend policies will be assessed against, among other things, our ability to achieve Basel III capital ratio requirements. A company that has not achieved Basel III capital requirements on a fully
phased-in basis may have difficulty increasing dividends.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

   The Federal Reserve will assess the Company s capital adequacy based on capital plans
we submitted as discussed in  Financial Holding Company Status and Activities   Capital Planning  under  Supervision and Regulation  above. While the regulations ultimately applicable to the Company will be determined by the
Federal Reserve, the Company estimates that, had regulations implementing Basel III been in place during the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company s capital ratios under Basel III would have exceeded the minimum requirements. This
estimate could change in the future. While we expect to meet the Basel III capital requirements, inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, as phased in by the Federal Reserve, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially
different from both the Proposed Basel III Rules and the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010. Moreover, given that the federal banking agencies have delayed the effectiveness of the Proposed Basel III Rules, it cannot be certain
when in the final rule as adopted will be applicable to us. Consequently, it remains uncertain how the final Basel III rules, as implemented by the federal banking agencies, will affect the Company and its subsidiaries. Additionally, stress testing
requirements may have the effect of requiring the Company to comply with the Basel III capital requirements, or potentially even greater capital requirements, sooner than expected.   
  During 2012, we repurchased 69 million shares of our common stock through our share repurchase program. On January 7, 2013, we
submitted our capital plan to the Federal Reserve requesting approval to proceed with additional share repurchases in 2013. The plan includes an analysis of performance and capital availability under certain adverse economic assumptions. We expect a
response from the Federal Reserve by March 14, 2013. No additional shares are expected to be repurchased prior to its response. We cannot predict whether the Federal Reserve will approve additional share purchases.   
  American Express Company relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for liquidity, and federal and state law limit the amount of dividends
that our subsidiaries may pay to the parent company. Limitations in the payments of dividends that American Express Company receives from its subsidiaries could also reduce our liquidity position.   
  For more information on bank holding company dividend restrictions, see  Supervision and Regulation   Financial Holding Company
Status and Activities   Dividends  above, as well as  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity   Share Repurchases and Dividends  on page 31 and Note 23 on pages 106-107 of our 2012 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.        Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the
subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network.     
  We are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the United States and many other countries in which our
charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous regulations applicable to financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a
provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to
maintaining effective AML programs. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our charge and
credit Cards may be used, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge and credit Cards. In addition, Member States of the European Economic Area have implemented the Payment Services Directive for electronic
payment services, including cards, that put in place a common legal framework for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business. The Directive is now
undergoing review and further changes, as yet to be defined, are anticipated.      Various regulatory agencies and legislatures
are also considering regulations and legislation covering identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards. These
new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations and legislation could have the effect of
limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored-value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth.   
  In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card
networks, including interchange fees paid to card issuers in  four party  payment networks such as Visa   
         76   

Table of Contents  

and MasterCard and the fees merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Poland, Italy, Switzerland, Hungary, the European Union, Australia,
Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela, among others, have conducted interchange fee investigations that are ongoing, concluded or on appeal. In some cases these investigations have led to changes in network rules, such as non-discrimination and
honor-all-card provisions.      The interchange fee, which is the collectively set fee paid by the merchant acquirer to the card
issuing bank in  four party  payment networks, is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not
have such interchange fees. For this reason, as well as the fact that Visa and MasterCard are the dominant card networks, the regulators  focus has primarily been on these networks. However, antitrust actions and government regulation relating
to merchant pricing could ultimately affect all networks. Among other impacts, lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well
as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.      Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from
restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to encourage customers to pay with particular forms of payment such as cash, check, credit or debit cards, so long as such offers do not discriminate on the basis of the network or issuer.
Further, to the extent required by federal law or applicable state law, the discount or incentive must be offered to all prospective buyers and must be clearly and conspicuously disclosed. Dodd-Frank also permits U.S. merchants to establish
minimum purchase amounts of no more than $10 for credit card purchases, provided that the merchants do not discriminate between networks or issuers. Federal government agencies and institutions of higher learning are also permitted to establish
maximum amounts for credit card purchases provided they do not discriminate between networks or issuers. As a result of this law, customers may be incentivized by merchants to move away from the use of charge and credit card products to other forms
of payment, such as debit, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.      In Europe, some countries such as
Italy and Poland have proposed or adopted regulation of interchange or merchant fees. In January 2012, the EC published a Green Paper (a document to begin a process of consultation toward potential regulation) covering a range of issues affecting
the payments industry. The Green Paper contemplates direct regulation of interchange fees as well as changes to non-discrimination and honor-all-cards rules and to regulation of surcharging. Other issues covered in the Green Paper include separation
of processing from card network management, perceived barriers to cross-border acquiring, mobile payments and technical standardization. The EC has completed a consultation period and is expected to issue its preliminary conclusions in early of
2013. These conclusions may involve proposals for regulation or recommendations for self-regulation and could take another 18-24 months to adopt and implement. See   An increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially
adversely affect our business and results of operations   below.      Increased regulatory focus on the Company, such as
in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely impact
our results of operations.        If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest successfully in, and compete at the
leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected.        Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of
our business, including in transaction processing, data management and analysis, customer interactions and communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. We
rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these
new technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our Cards, networks and other services. Because of evolving payments technologies and the competitive landscape, we may not, among other things, be
successful in increasing or maintaining our share of online spending and enhancing our Cardmembers  digital experience, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. We also expect increased regulatory and legal scrutiny
and requirements with respect to data privacy and protection in connection with these new technologies. Our ability to develop, acquire or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be limited by patent rights that
third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies may be   
         77   

Table of Contents  

inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards, by resistance to change from Cardmembers or merchants, by the complexity of our systems or by intellectual property rights of third parties.
     We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, including copyrights,
trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition,
competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and business environment in which we operate,
and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property-related litigation, we cannot assure you that a future assertion of an infringement claim against us will not cause us to lose significant revenues, incur significant license,
royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages.        Regulation in the areas of privacy, information
security and data protection could increase our costs and affect or limit how we collect and/or use personal information and our business opportunities.        We are subject to various applicable Privacy, Information Security and Data Protection Laws, including requirements concerning security breach notification, and we could be negatively impacted by them.
For example, in the United States, certain of our businesses may be subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and implementing regulations and guidance. Among other things, the GLBA imposes certain limitations on the ability of financial institutions to
share consumers  nonpublic personal information with nonaffiliated third parties; requires that financial institutions provide certain disclosures to consumers about their data collection, sharing and security practices and affords customers
the right to  opt out  of the institution s disclosure of their personal financial information to nonaffiliated third parties (with limited exceptions); and requires financial institutions to develop, implement and maintain a written
comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution s activities, and the sensitivity of customer
information processed by the financial institution. For more information on the GLBA and various state laws, see  Privacy and Data Protection  under  Supervision and Regulation  above.   
  Various U.S. federal banking regulatory agencies, states and foreign jurisdictions have enacted data security breach notification
requirements with varying levels of individual, consumer, regulatory and/or law enforcement notification in certain circumstances in the event of a security breach. Many of these requirements also apply broadly to merchants that accept our Cards and
our business partners. In many countries that have yet to impose data security breach notification requirements, regulators have increasingly used the threat of significant sanctions and penalties by data protection authorities to encourage
voluntary notification and discourage data security breaches.      In addition, legislators and/or regulators in the United States
and other countries in which we operate are increasingly adopting or revising Privacy, Information Security and Data Protection Laws that potentially could have significant impact on our current and planned privacy, data protection and information
security-related practices, our collection, use, sharing, retention and safeguarding of consumer and/or employee information, and some of our current or planned business activities. This also could increase our costs of compliance and business
operations and could reduce revenues from certain business initiatives. There is also increasing enforcement activity in the areas of data protection, privacy and/or information security in various countries in which we operate.   
  For example, in the United States, during 2012 the FTC and the White House issued reports pertaining to consumer privacy. The FTC s
report, which applies to a company s collection and use of consumer information both online and offline, indicates certain privacy principles that at least one key U.S. regulator (the FTC) expects companies to adhere to as  best
practices.  These include, for example, greater transparency and  privacy-by-design  (i.e. building reasonable protections into data collection, retention, and management procedures). The White House report sets administration
positions, including calling on Congress to enact new consumer protections with respect to commercial data practices in the form of a  Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights  and a national data breach notification standard that preempts the
existing patchwork of state standards. In recent years there also has been increasing enforcement activity in the areas of privacy, information security and data protection in the United States, including at the federal level by the FTC, as well as
increased privacy-related enforcement activity at the state level, including in California, such as with regard to mobile applications. The U.S. House of Representatives and Senate considered a number of draft privacy, security breach notification,
cybersecurity and   
         78   

Table of Contents  

information-security related bills during the 112th Congress and various committee hearings were held on related subjects. There also continues to be legislative activity in these areas at the
state level.      In the European Union, the European Data Protection Directive, which obligates the controller of an
individual s personal data to, among other things, take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data, has been implemented through local laws in Member States. As these laws are interpreted throughout the
European Union, compliance costs are increasing, particularly in the context of ensuring that adequate data protection and data transfer mechanisms are in place. The European Commission proposed in January 2012 a new regulation to replace the
current Data Protection Directive that, among other things, would tighten data protection requirements and make enforcement more rigorous, for example, by streamlining enforcement at a European level, introducing data breach notification
requirements and increasing penalties for non-compliance. The proposed regulation may be finalized in late 2013 with an effective date 18-24 months thereafter. This proposed regulation follows the implementation of the European Union s
e-Privacy Directive, which imposes consent requirements on the use of  cookies  for certain purposes such as online behavioral advertisement.      Compliance with current or future Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws (including those regarding security breach notification) affecting customer and/or employee data to which we are
subject could result in higher compliance and technology costs and could restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability or provide certain products and services, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our
failure to comply with Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security Laws could result in potentially significant regulatory and/or governmental investigations and/or actions, litigation, fines, sanctions and damage to our global reputation and
our brand.        Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could
materially adversely affect our business.        Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key
personnel. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management team is relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and
payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. As
further described in  Supervision and Regulation   Compensation Practices  above, our compensation practices are subject to review and oversight by the Federal Reserve and the compensation practices of our U.S. depository institution
subsidiaries are subject to review and oversight by the FDIC and the OCC. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices, which may or may not affect our competitors, by the Federal Reserve,
the FDIC or other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including limitations on any incentive compensation policies pursuant to Dodd-Frank, could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel.
The loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.        Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax
positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.        We operate in jurisdictions
throughout the world. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, and of various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative initiatives may be proposed, such as proposals
for fundamental tax reform in the United States, which may impact our effective tax rate and could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign, tax laws and
regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our historical tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in defending our position in
connection with any such challenge.       Business Risks         Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry.     
  The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in addition to charge, credit and debit card networks and issuers, cash, credit
and ACH, as well as evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products, such as   
         79   

Table of Contents  

aggregators (e.g., PayPal, Square and Amazon), wireless payment technologies (including using mobile telephone networks to carry out transactions), prepaid systems and systems linked to payment
cards, and bank transfer models. We are the fourth largest general-purpose card network on a global basis based on purchase volume, behind Visa, MasterCard and China UnionPay. We believe Visa and MasterCard are larger than we are in most countries.
As a result, competitive card issuers and acquirers on the Visa and MasterCard networks may be able to benefit from the dominant position, resources, marketing and pricing of Visa and MasterCard.   
  Because of consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers,
there are now a smaller number of significant issuers. Continuing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a strong relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a
competitor, resulting in a potential loss of business for us. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among
all issuers remains intense. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors.      In addition, some of
our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, including larger cash reserves, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising
and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition, co-brand card programs or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats or respond or adapt to changes in consumer
spending habits as effectively as our competitors. Our competitors may also be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services on different platforms than we are. Spending on our charge and credit Cards could continue to be
impacted by increasing consumer usage of debit cards issued on competitive networks.      Internationally, competition remains
fierce, and as a result, we may not be successful in accelerating our growth outside of the United States through proprietary consumer, small business and corporate products, GNS partners and alternative payment vehicles.   
  New technologies, together with the portability provided by smartphones and tablets and evolving consumer behavior with social
networking, are rapidly changing the way people interact with each other and transact business all around the world. In this connection, traditional and non-traditional competitors such as mobile telecommunications companies and aggregators are
working to deliver digital and mobile payment services for both consumers and merchants.      In the United States, alternative
payment vehicles that seek to redirect customers to payment systems based on ACH continue to emerge and grow, and existing debit networks also continue to expand both on- and off-line and are making efforts to develop online PIN functionality, which
could further reduce the relative use of charge and credit cards online.      To the extent alternative payment mechanisms,
systems and products continue to successfully expand in the online payments space, our discount revenues and our ability to access transaction data through our closed-loop network could be negatively impacted. The Company s Enterprise Growth
Group focuses on this strategic challenge by generating alternative sources of revenue on a global basis in areas such as online and mobile payments and fee-based services. While expanding the Enterprise Growth Group is a top priority for the
Company, many of the growth initiatives will involve new areas for the Company and we may not be successful in executing our strategy. Our failure to expand Enterprise Growth and drive adoption of new products and services, including new technology
and payment options that we offer, would negatively impact our future growth. To the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with relevant
customers, regulators and industry participants, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. Laws and business practices that favor local competitors, require card transactions to be routed over domestic networks or prohibit or limit
foreign ownership of certain businesses could slow our growth in international regions. Further, expanding our service offerings, adding customer acquisition channels and forming new partnerships could have higher cost structures than our current
arrangements, adversely impact our average discount rate or dilute our brand.      Regulators have recently put forward various
proposals that may impact our businesses, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to impose taxes or fees on
certain financial institutions. These or similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could impact our ability to compete effectively.   
         80   

Table of Contents  

     We face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants that
accept our Cards for payment for goods and services.        Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on
high revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is
primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. In recent years, we have been under market pressure, including pressure created by regulatory-mandated reductions to competitors  pricing, to reduce merchant
discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. In addition, differentiated payment models from non-traditional players in the alternative payments space and the regulatory and litigation environment could pose challenges to our
traditional payment model and adversely impact our average discount rate. A continuing priority of ours is to drive greater value to our merchants, which if not successful could negatively impact our discount revenue and financial results. If we
continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate or are unable to sustain merchant discount rates on our Cards and have overall volume growth or an increase in merchant coverage and activation, our revenues and profitability,
and therefore our ability to invest in innovation and in value-added services to merchants and Cardmembers, could be materially and adversely affected.        An increasing prevalence of surcharging by merchants could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.     
  While our Card acceptance agreements with merchants generally do not prohibit merchants from surcharging our Cardmembers, merchants are
encouraged to welcome our Cardmembers and are obliged to comply with applicable laws and our card acceptance agreements, including any non-discrimination provisions in our agreements. There are certain countries in which surcharging is specifically
permitted, such as Australia and certain countries in the European Union. In Australia, we have seen selective, but increasing, merchant surcharging on American Express Cards in certain merchant categories and, in some cases, on a basis that is
greater than that applied to cards issued on the bankcard networks, which is known as differential surcharging. New rules issued by the Reserve Bank of Australia in 2012 allow us and other payment networks to prohibit merchants from surcharging by
more than their reasonable costs of accepting a particular payment card. This could lead to an increase in higher surcharges on American Express Cards when compared to cards issued by other issuers or on other networks. In addition, the proposed
settlement by MasterCard and Visa of their U.S. merchant class litigation, which was preliminarily approved in November 2012, requires MasterCard and Visa to permit U.S. merchants to surcharge MasterCard and Visa credit card transactions under
certain terms and subject to certain conditions, while permitting the networks to continue to prohibit surcharges on debit card transactions. MasterCard and Visa have announced revised network rules that went into effect on January 27, 2013
that prohibit merchants that also accept American Express Cards from implementing surcharges of MasterCard and/or Visa credit card transactions unless they also surcharge American Express transactions in a manner that would violate the
non-discrimination provisions generally agreed to by most merchants that accept Cards on the American Express network (i.e., by surcharging American Express transactions but not surcharging MasterCard and Visa debit card transactions). This may
encourage merchants that currently accept American Express Cards to either violate their Card acceptance agreements with American Express or to discontinue acceptance of American Express Cards. If this occurs, it could materially and adversely
affect American Express merchant coverage and Charge volumes.      If surcharging becomes widespread, American Express Cards and
credit and charge cards generally could become less desirable to consumers, which could result in a decrease in Cards in force and transaction volumes. The impact could vary depending on the manner in which a surcharge is levied and whether
surcharges are levied upon all payment cards, whether debit cards are excluded, or whether the amount of the surcharge varies depending on the card, network, acquirer or issuer. Surcharging could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations, particularly to the extent surcharging disproportionately impacts American Express Cardmembers.   
    We may not be successful in our efforts to promote Card usage through our marketing, promotion and rewards programs, or to effectively control the
costs of such programs, both of which may impact our profitability.        Our business is characterized by the high level
of spending by our Cardmembers. Increasing consumer and business spending and borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and growth in Card lending balances,
depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products. One of the ways in which we attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember attrition and seek to retain or capture a
greater share of customers  total spending on   
         81   

Table of Contents  

Cards issued on our network, both in the United States and in our international operations, is through our Membership Rewards program, as well as other Cardmember benefits. We may not be able to
cost-effectively manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember services expenses. For example, Cardmembers  increased engagement with our Membership Rewards
program drove an increase in the ultimate redemption rate to 94 percent in 2012 from 92 percent in 2011, which resulted in higher rewards expenses in 2012. In addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards and co-brand programs that are
similar to ours, and issuers may in the future institute programs that are more attractive to Cardmembers than our programs.   
  If we continue to increase our investments in marketing, promotion and rewards programs, we will need to find ways to offset the
financial impact by increasing payments volume, the amount of fee-based services we provide or both. We may not succeed in doing so, particularly in the current regulatory environment.        Our brand and reputation are key assets of our Company, and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.     
  Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company, and we believe our continued success depends on our ability to preserve, grow
and leverage the value of our brand. Our ability to attract and retain consumer and small business Cardmembers and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices,
financial condition and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters   even if related to seemingly isolated incidents   could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and
potential Cardmembers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers and maintain existing ones. Negative public opinion could also result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or
circumstances, including card practices, regulatory compliance and the use and protection of customer information, and from actions taken by regulators or others in response to such conduct. Social media channels can also cause rapid, widespread
reputational harm to our brand.      Our brand and reputation may also be harmed by actions taken by third parties that are
outside our control. For example, any shortcoming of a third-party vendor or GNS partner that issues Cards and acquires merchants on the American Express network may be attributed by Cardmembers and merchants to us, thus damaging our reputation and
brand value. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Furthermore, as a corporation with
headquarters and operations located in the United States, a negative perception of the United States arising from its political or other positions could harm the perception of our company and our brand. Although we monitor developments for areas of
potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.        If we cannot successfully execute on our strategy, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted.        We may not be able to implement important strategic initiatives in accordance with our expectations, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. These strategic
initiatives are designed to improve our results of operations and drive long-term shareholder value, and include:       

Increasing plastic penetration, including by growing our share of premium and small business spend and B2B payments      

Continuing to expand internationally through proprietary and GNS offerings      

Expanding our presence in the digital payments space, including online and mobile channels      

Successfully leveraging our brand in the prepaid space      

Growing our existing fee-based businesses such as insurance products and other services and introducing new business initiatives to increase fee
revenue         The process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is
complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers  changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share and results of operations.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

   We also continue to pursue a disciplined expense-management strategy, including
restructuring operations. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to control the growth of expenses in the future, particularly as expenses incurred in our foreign entities are subject to foreign exchange volatility and regulatory
compliance and legal and related costs are difficult to predict or control, particularly given the current regulatory and litigation environment. Moreover, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs of investing in our businesses. These
investments may not be as productive as we expect or at all.        We may not be successful in realizing the benefits associated with our
investments, acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and investment activity.        We have recently acquired a
number of businesses, including our acquisitions of Serve, Accertify and Loyalty Partner, and made a number of strategic investments. We may also evaluate other potential transactions. These transactions could be material to our financial condition
and results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, value potential investment or acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities, and
complete proposed acquisitions and investments. Our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies, businesses or technologies into our existing operations could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or
investment, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally.        A significant disruption or breach in the security of our
information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and
credit Cards.        We and other third parties process, transmit and store Cardmember account information in connection
with our charge and credit Cards, and in the normal course of our business, we collect, analyze and retain significant volumes of certain types of personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our customers and employees. Information
security risks for large financial institutions like us have generally increased in recent years. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to Cardmembers  accounts, including
Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft, and to expose and exploit potential security and privacy vulnerabilities in corporate systems and Web sites. As outsourcing and specialization of
functions within the payments industry increase, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our Cards and there is a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties, including merchants
that accept our Cards and our business partners, may be compromised.      We develop and maintain systems and processes to detect
and prevent data breaches and fraudulent activity, but the development and maintenance of these systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and regulatory requirements change and efforts to overcome security
measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, the possibility of data breaches, malicious social engineering and fraudulent or other malicious activities cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain.
     Our information technology systems, including our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems, may experience
service disruptions or degradation because of technology malfunction, sudden increases in customer transaction volume, natural disasters, accidents, power outages, telecommunications failures, fraud, denial-of-service and other cyber attacks,
terrorism, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar events. Service disruptions could prevent access to our online services and account information, compromise Company or customer data, and impede transaction processing and
financial reporting. Inadequate infrastructure in lesser developed countries could also result in service disruptions, which could impact our ability to do business in those countries.   
  If our information technology systems experience a significant disruption or breach or if actual or perceived fraud levels or other
illegal activities involving our Cards were to rise due to the actions of third parties, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, it could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance), increased litigation and remediation
costs, greater concerns of customers and/or business partners relating to the privacy and security of their data, and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse
impact on our business. Data breaches and other actual or perceived failures to maintain confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data may also negatively impact the assessment of the Company, TRS and its U.S. banking subsidiaries by banking
regulators.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

     We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline industry,
that represent a significant portion of our business. We are exposed to risks associated with these industries, including bankruptcies, liquidations, restructurings, consolidations and alliances of our partners, and the possible obligation to make
payments to our partners.        In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual
arrangements with business partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with Costco and Delta Air Lines to offer co-branded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership Rewards program we have partnered
with businesses in many industries, including the airline industry, to offer benefits to Cardmember participants. Under some types of these contractual arrangements, we may be obligated to make or accelerate payments to certain business partners
such as co-brand partners and merchants upon the occurrence of certain triggering events such as: (i) our filing for bankruptcy, (ii) our economic condition deteriorating such that our senior unsecured debt rating is downgraded
significantly below investment grade by S P and Moody s, (iii) our ceasing to have a public debt rating, or (iv) a shortfall in certain performance levels. If we are not able to effectively manage the triggering events, we could
unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, we have credit risk to certain co-brand partners relating to our prepayments for loyalty
program points that may not be fully redeemed. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, liquidations, insolvencies, financial distress, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may occur in any industry representing a
significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular card products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. For example, we could be materially impacted if we
were obligated to or elected to reimburse Cardmembers for products and services purchased from merchants that have ceased operations or stopped accepting our Cards.      The airline industry represents a significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. The airline industry
accounted for approximately 10 percent of our worldwide billed business for the year ended December 31, 2012.      There
continues to be significant consolidation in the airline industry, particularly in the United States (e.g., American/US Airway and United Airlines/Continental Airlines), through mergers and/or grants of antitrust immunity to airline alliances and
joint ventures, and this trend could continue.      In particular, the United States Department of Transportation has granted
antitrust immunity to members of the Skyteam, Star and Oneworld Alliances, enabling the covered airlines to closely coordinate their cross-regional operations and to launch highly integrated joint ventures in transatlantic and other markets,
including jointly pricing and managing capacity on covered routes, sharing revenues and costs, and coordinating sales and corporate contracts, all outside the scope of the U.S. antitrust laws. The EC has similarly approved the Oneworld Alliance, and
its review of the other alliances and cooperation between alliance members is continuing.      Increasing consolidation and
expanded antitrust immunity could create challenges for our relationships with the airlines including reducing our profitability on our airline business. Further consolidation may also result from airline bankruptcies, which could be an outcome of
American Airline s pending case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.      Airlines are also some of the most important
and valuable partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have to determine whether or not to continue participation.
Similarly, if one of our co-brand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine which co-brand cards it would offer. Our largest airline co-brand loan portfolio, American
Express  Delta SkyMiles Credit Card, accounted for less than 15 percent of worldwide Cardmember loans as of December 31, 2012.      If an airline determined to withdraw from Membership Rewards or to cease offering an American Express co-brand Card, whether as the result of a merger or otherwise, such as the withdrawal of Continental
Airlines in 2011 from our Airport Club Access program for Centurion and Platinum Cardmembers and our Membership Rewards points transfer program, our business could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to the general risks
related to the airline industry, see  Risk Management   Exposure to Airline Industry  on page 38 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference.   
         84   

Table of Contents  

     Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize
all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended.        Many factors can influence the amount of our expenses, as
well as how quickly they may increase. Our ongoing investments, which may be necessary to maintain a competitive business, may increase our expenses. We have regularly undertaken, and are currently undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our
business operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion, rewards and infrastructure), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and improve our
operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing functions (including,
among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower-cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet and mobile channels to save costs and planned staff reductions relating to certain of these
reengineering actions. If we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize on these efforts, or if the actions taken ultimately come at the expense of operational efficiency, we may not realize all
or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Failure to achieve these benefits or successfully manage our expenses could have a negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and ability to achieve our previously
announced financial targets.        Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective.     
  Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. We have established policies and
procedures intended to identify, monitor and manage the types of risk to which we are subject, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk and reputational risk. See  Risk Management  on
pages 37- 40 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. Although we have devoted significant resources to
develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, these policies and procedures, as well as our risk management techniques such as our hedging strategies, may not be fully effective. In addition, as
regulations and markets in which we operate continue to evolve, our risk management framework may not always keep sufficient pace with those changes. If our risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate our risks, we could
suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.      Management of our risks in some cases depends upon the
use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If the models we use to mitigate these risks are inadequate, we may incur increased losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that we have not appropriately
anticipated, identified or mitigated.      We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans and
settlement risk with regard to GNS partners, merchant bankruptcies, the rate of bankruptcies, and other credit trends that can affect spending on Card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our Card
products.      Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are exposed to both consumer credit risk,
principally from Cardmember receivables and our other consumer lending activities, and institutional credit risk from merchants, GNS partners and GCP clients. Third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
operational failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk. Our ability to assess creditworthiness may be impaired if the criteria or models we use to manage our credit risk become less predictive of
future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for
loan losses. Although delinquencies and charge-offs declined in 2012, we believe we are experiencing historical lows in these rates and they are likely to increase. In addition, if economic conditions do not improve, these rates may increase more
than expected. Higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds. In addition, our ability to recover amounts that
we have previously written off may be limited, which could have a negative impact on our revenues.      Although we make estimates
to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be accurate. In addition, the information we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review
our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that
  
         85   

Table of Contents  

are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers. Increased credit risk, whether resulting from
underestimating the credit losses inherent in our portfolio of loans and receivables, deteriorating economic conditions or otherwise, could require us to increase our provision for losses and could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.      We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. Market risk
represents the loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables. We are exposed to market risk from interest rates in our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in the interest rates
at which we borrow and lend money affect the value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net
income, could fall.      We must also accurately estimate the fair value of certain of our assets and our liabilities and, in
particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including our investment portfolio and derivative instruments.   
  Additionally, we must effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. Liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access
cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility; or we may be too
illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. For additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see   Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to
meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital   above.      Finally, we must also manage the operational and
compliance risks to which we are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed processes or information systems, poor data quality, human error or the external environment
(i.e., natural disasters). Operational risk includes, among others, the risk that employee error or intentional misconduct could result in a material financial misstatement; a failure to monitor an outsource partner s compliance with a service
level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements; or a failure to adequately monitor and control access to data in our systems we grant to third-party service providers. As processes are changed, or new products and services are introduced, we
may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Compliance risk arises from the failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules, regulations and internal policies and procedures. Operational and compliance
risks can expose us to reputational risks as well as fines, civil money penalties or payment of damages and can lead to diminished business opportunities and diminished ability to expand key operations.   
    An inability to accept or maintain deposits due to market demand or regulatory constraints could materially adversely affect our liquidity position
and our ability to fund our business.        As a source of funding, our U.S. banking subsidiaries accept deposits from
individuals through third-party brokerage networks as well as directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $39.7 billion in total U.S. retail deposits. Many other financial
services firms are increasing their use of deposit funding, and as such we may experience increased competition in the deposit markets, particularly as to brokerage networks. We cannot predict how this increased competition will affect deposit
renewal rates, costs or availability. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted.      Our ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates on deposits also is dependent on capital levels of our U.S. banking subsidiaries. The FDIA generally prohibits a bank, including
Centurion Bank and AEBFSB, from accepting brokered deposits or offering interest rates on any deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited), unless
(1) it is well capitalized or (2) it is adequately capitalized and receives a waiver from the FDIC. The majority of the Company s outstanding U.S. retail deposits has been raised through third-party brokerage networks, and such
deposits are considered brokered deposits for bank regulatory purposes, although a majority of the deposits raised during 2012 were accepted directly from consumers through American Express Personal Savings. A bank that is less than well capitalized
generally may not pay an interest rate on any deposit, including direct-to-consumer deposits, in excess of 75 basis points over the national rate published by the FDIC unless the FDIC determines that the bank is operating in a high-rate area.
An adequately capitalized insured depository institution may not accept, renew or roll over any brokered deposit unless it has applied for and been granted a waiver of this prohibition by the FDIC. Undercapitalized depository institutions may not
solicit deposits by offering interest rates that are significantly higher than the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in such institution s normal market areas or in the   
         86   

Table of Contents  

market area in which such deposits would otherwise be accepted. There are no such restrictions on a bank that is well capitalized (provided such bank is not subject to a capital maintenance
provision within a written agreement, consent order, order to cease and desist, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive issued by its federal regulator). If a depository institution s federal regulator determines that it is in
an unsafe or unsound condition or is engaging in unsafe or unsound banking practices, the regulator may reclassify a well capitalized institution as adequately capitalized, require an adequately capitalized institution to comply with certain
restrictions as if it were undercapitalized, and require an undercapitalized institution take certain actions applicable to significantly undercapitalized institutions.      While Centurion Bank and AEBFSB were considered  well capitalized  for these purposes as of December 31, 2012, there can be no assurance that they will continue to meet this definition.
Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Additionally, our
regulators can adjust the requirements to be well capitalized at any time and have authority to place limitations on our deposit businesses, including the interest rate we pay on deposits. An inability to attract or maintain deposits in the future
could materially adversely affect our liquidity position and our ability to fund our business.        We rely on third-party providers of
various computer systems, platforms and other services integral to the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business.        We operate a service network around the world. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral
to the operations of our global businesses. A significant amount of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. We also rely on third parties to interact with our customers, including through social media platforms and mobile technologies. We
are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. A failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider s
compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in economic and reputational harm to us. There is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over
third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. In addition, the management of multiple third-party vendors increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain
outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the world.      Additionally, we rely on third-party
service providers, merchants, processors, aggregators, GNS partners and other third parties for the timely transmission of accurate information across our global network. If a service provider fails to provide the data quality, communications
capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruptions, terrorism, hacking or other cybersecurity incidents or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services. See   A significant disruption or
breach in the security of our information technology systems or an increase in fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure and could reduce the use and
acceptance of our charge and credit Cards   above.        Our business is subject to the effects of geopolitical events, weather,
natural disasters and other conditions.        Geopolitical events, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, severe weather
conditions, health pandemics, intrusion into or degradation of our infrastructure by hackers and other catastrophic events can have a negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged
as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems.
Because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus is likely to decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might
involve health-related risks. In addition, disruptions in air travel and other forms of travel caused by such events can result in the payment of claims under travel interruption insurance policies that we offer and, if such disruptions to travel
are prolonged, they can materially adversely affect overall travel-related spending. If the conditions described above (or similar ones) result in widespread or lengthy disruptions to travel, they could have a material adverse effect on our results
of operations. Cardmember spending may also be negatively impacted in areas affected by natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The impact of such events on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition or results of
operations.   
         87   

Table of Contents  

    Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements    
  We have made various statements in this Report that may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our
management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above and on pages 54-56 of the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which could cause actual results
to differ materially from such statements. The words  believe,   expect,   anticipate,   optimistic,   intend,   plan,   aim,   will,   may, 
 should,   could,   would,   likely  and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above and in the 2012 Annual Report to
Shareholders are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance
on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.   

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS         Not applicable.       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         Our principal executive offices are in a 51-story, 2.2 million square foot building located in lower Manhattan on land leased from the Battery Park City Authority for a term expiring in 2069. We have
a 49% ownership interest in the building and Brookfield Financial Properties owns the remaining 51% interest in the building. We also lease space in the building from Brookfield.   
  Other owned or leased principal locations currently include the American Express Service Centers in Fort Lauderdale, Florida;
Phoenix, Arizona; and Salt Lake City, Utah; the American Express Data Centers in Phoenix, Arizona, in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and in Greensboro, North Carolina; a multi-building campus housing the American Express Finance Center in Phoenix, Arizona;
the headquarters for American Express Services Europe Limited in London, England; the Amex Bank of Canada and Amex Canada Inc. headquarters in Markham, Ontario, Canada; and service centers located in Mexico City, Mexico; Sydney, Australia; Gurgaon,
India and Brighton, England.      During 2004 and 2005, we engaged in several sale-leaseback transactions pursuant to which we
sold various owned properties to third parties and leased back the properties under long-term net leases whereby each American Express entity that leases back the property is responsible for all costs and expenses relating to the property (including
maintenance, repair, utilities, operating expenses and insurance costs) in addition to annual rent. The sale-leaseback transactions have not materially impacted our financial results in any year. Gains resulting from completed sale and leaseback
transactions are amortized over the initial ten-year lease periods. We continue to consider whether sale-leaseback transactions are appropriate for other properties that we currently own.   
  Generally, we lease the premises we occupy in other locations. We believe the facilities we own or occupy suit our needs and are well
maintained.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal and arbitration proceedings, including class actions, arising out of the conduct of their respective business activities. The Company
believes it has meritorious defenses to each of these actions and intends to defend them vigorously. In the course of its business, the Company and its subsidiaries are also subject to governmental examinations, information gathering requests,
subpoenas, inquiries and investigations. The Company believes it is not a party to, nor are any of its properties the subject of, any pending legal, arbitration, regulatory or investigative proceedings that would have a material adverse effect on
the Company s consolidated financial condition or   
         88   

Table of Contents  

liquidity. However, it is possible that the outcome of any such proceeding could have a material impact on results of operations in any particular reporting period as the proceedings are
resolved. Certain legal proceedings involving the Company are described below.      For those legal proceedings and governmental
examinations disclosed below as to which a loss is reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, and for which the Company is able to estimate a range of possible
loss, the current estimated range is zero to $430 million in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters. This aggregate range represents management s estimate of possible loss with respect to these matters and is
based on currently available information. This estimated range of possible loss does not represent the Company s maximum loss exposure. The legal proceedings and governmental examinations underlying the estimated range will change from time to
time and actual results may vary significantly from the current estimate. For additional information, see Note 24 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which can be found on pages 107-108 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders.   
   Corporate Matters    
  During the last few years as regulatory interest in credit card network pricing to merchants and related issues has increased, the
Company has responded to many inquiries from banking and competition authorities throughout the world.      On October 4,
2010, the DOJ, along with Attorneys General from Connecticut, Iowa, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio and Texas, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York against the Company, MasterCard International
Incorporated and Visa, Inc., alleging a violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The complaint alleges that the defendants  policies prohibiting merchants from steering a customer to use another network s card, another
type of card or another method of payment ( anti-steering  and  non-discrimination  rules and contractual provisions) violate the antitrust laws. The complaint alleges that the defendants participate in two distinct markets, a
 General Purpose Card network services market  and a  General Purpose Card network services market for merchants in travel and entertainment ( T E ) businesses.  The complaint contends that each of the defendants
has market power in the alleged two markets. The complaint seeks a judgment permanently enjoining the defendants from enforcing their anti-steering and non-discrimination rules and contractual provisions. The complaint does not seek monetary
damages. Concurrent with the filing of the complaint, Visa and MasterCard announced they had reached an agreement settling the allegations in the complaint against them by agreeing to modifications in their rules prohibiting merchants that accept
their cards from steering customers to use another network s card, another type of card or another method of payment. In December 2010, the complaint filed by the DOJ and certain state attorneys general was amended to add as plaintiffs the
Attorneys General from Arizona, Hawaii (Hawaii has since withdrawn its claim), Idaho, Illinois, Montana, Nebraska, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Utah and Vermont. American Express  response to the amended complaint was filed in early
January 2011.      The DOJ matter is being coordinated with individual and putative class actions pending in the Eastern
District of New York against American Express brought by merchants alleging that the Company s  anti-steering  provisions in its merchant acceptance agreements with the plaintiffs violate federal antitrust laws. As alleged by the
plaintiffs, these provisions prevent merchants from offering consumers incentives to use alternative forms of payment when consumers wish to use an American Express-branded card. Plaintiffs seek damages and injunctive relief. The putative class
actions have been partially stayed in light of the continuing appeal in  In re American Express Merchants  Litigation  (described below).      The Company is a defendant in a putative class action captioned  Kaufman v. American Express Travel Related Services , which was filed on February 14, 2007, and is pending in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. Plaintiffs  principal allegation is that the Company s gift cards violate consumer protection statutes because consumers allegedly have difficulty spending small residual
amounts on the gift cards prior to the imposition of monthly service fees. The Court preliminarily certified a settlement class consisting of (with some exceptions)  all purchasers, recipients and holders of all gift cards issued by American
Express from January 1, 2002 through the date of preliminary approval of the settlement  and preliminarily approved the parties  settlement agreement on September 21, 2011. A final settlement approval hearing took place on
February 29, 2012 and the Court issued an order on June 25, 2012 appointing an expert to consider further notice to the class. The Company is also a defendant in  Goodman v. American Express Travel Related Services , a putative class
action pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York that involves allegations similar to those made in  Kaufman . Plaintiffs in  Goodman  have intervened in the  Kaufman  proceedings and will be
subject to any final settlement in  Kaufman  that may be approved over their objections.   
         89   

Table of Contents  

   On October 1, 2012, the Company announced that it reached settlements with several bank
regulators to resolve reviews of certain aspects of the Company s U.S. consumer card practices for compliance with certain consumer protection laws and regulations. Similar settlements were reached with several of the Company s
subsidiaries, including Centurion Bank, AEBFSB and TRS. The settlements were signed by the Company with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve Board) and UDFI; TRS with the Federal Reserve Board, CFPB and UDFI;
Centurion Bank with the CFPB, FDIC and DFI; and AEBFSB with the CFPB and OCC. The American Express entities agreed to pay civil money penalties totaling $27.5 million and the Company, through its subsidiaries, will establish a restricted fund
pool totaling $85 million for customer refunds (subject to adjustment depending on the ultimate amount of the refunds). The majority of those refunds are related to debt collection practices and late fee charges. As noted above under
 Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010  within  Supervision and Regulation,  various bank regulators have been separately reviewing the Company s add-on products for compliance with certain consumer protection laws and
regulations. In connection with the settlements, ongoing discussions with regulators and the Company s own internal reviews, the Company and its subsidiaries have made and continue to make changes to certain of their card practices and
products, which are likely to result in additional restitution to Cardmembers and may result in additional regulatory actions, which could include civil money penalties.      On November 7, 2012, a shareholder derivative action captioned  Lankford v. Chenault, et al., and American Express Co. , was filed in New York State Supreme Court, New York County. The
defendants include the Company s Board of Directors and the Company itself, as a nominal defendant. No demand preceded the filing of the complaint. The complaint alleges that the Company and/or its subsidiaries were engaged in illicit practices
with respect to their credit and charge card business, which included charging unlawful late fees, misleading consumers on debt collection issues, failing to report consumer disputes to credit reporting agencies, deceiving consumers who signed up
for the Company s  Blue Sky  credit card program, and discriminating against new account applicants on the basis of age. Based on those allegations, the complaint further alleges: breach of fiduciary duties by disseminating false and
misleading information, failure to maintain internal controls, and failure to properly oversee and manage the Company; unjust enrichment; abuse of control; and gross mismanagement. The amount of purported damages is unspecified in the complaint.
Similar allegations have been raised in demand letters received during October 2012 by the Company on behalf of purported shareholders.   
   U.S. Card Services and Global Merchant Services Matters        Merchant Cases       In addition to the merchant cases being coordinated with
the DOJ and state actions described above in  Corporate Matters,  the Company has been named in the following matters:      Since July 2003, the Company has been named in a number of putative class actions in which the plaintiffs allege an unlawful antitrust tying arrangement between certain of the Company s charge cards
and credit cards in violation of various state and federal laws. These cases have all been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York under the caption:  In re American Express Merchants 
Litigation . A case making similar allegations was also filed in the Southern District of New York in July 2004 captioned:  The Marcus Corporation v. American Express Company, et al.  The  Marcus  case is not consolidated. The
plaintiffs in these actions seek injunctive relief and an unspecified amount of damages. Since April 2004, the parties to the consolidated actions have been engaged in motion practice regarding American Express  motion to dismiss the
consolidated actions on the grounds that all of the plaintiffs  claims are subject to arbitration. On February 1, 2012, the Second Circuit again reversed the District Court s decision ordering arbitration, and reaffirmed its prior
ruling. On May 29, 2012, the Second Circuit denied the Company s petition for rehearing en banc with dissents. The Second Circuit has stayed the mandate pending the outcome of the Company s petition for a writ of certiorari to the
U.S. Supreme Court, which was granted on November 6, 2012. Oral argument is scheduled for February 27, 2013.      In
October 2007, The Marcus Corporation filed a motion seeking certification of a class. In September 2008, American Express moved for summary judgment seeking dismissal of The Marcus Corporation s complaint, and The Marcus Corporation
cross-moved for partial summary judgment on the issue of liability. In March 2009, the Court denied the plaintiffs  motion for class certification, without prejudicing their right to remake such a motion upon resolution of the pending
summary judgment motions. A case captioned  Hayama Inc. v. American Express Company, et al. , which makes similar allegations as those in the actions described above, was filed and remains in the Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County
(filed December 2003). To date the  Hayama  action has been stayed.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

   In February 2009, an amended complaint was filed in  In re American Express
Merchants  Litigation . The amended complaint contains a single count alleging a violation of federal antitrust laws through an alleged unlawful tying of: (a) corporate, small business and/or personal charge card services; and
(b) Blue, Costco and standard GNS credit card services. In addition, in February 2009, a new complaint making the same allegations as made in the amended complaint filed in  In re American Express Merchants  Litigation  was also
filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. That new case is captioned  Greenporter LLC and Bar Hama LLC, on behalf of themselves and all others similarly situated v. American Express Company and American
Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.  Proceedings in the  Greenporter  action and on the amended complaint filed in  In re American Express Merchants  Litigation  have been held in abeyance pending the disposition of the
motions for summary judgment in the  Marcus  case.       Other Cases    
  In September 2001,  Hoffman, et al. v. American Express Travel Related Services Company, et al.  was filed in the Superior
Court of the State of California, Alameda County. Plaintiffs in that case claim that American Express erroneously charged Cardmember accounts in connection with its airflight insurance programs because in certain circumstances customers must request
refunds, as disclosed in materials for the voluntary program. In January 2006, the Court certified a class of American Express charge Cardmembers asserting claims for breach of contract and conversion under New York law, with a subclass of
California residents asserting violations of California Business   Professions Code    17200 and 17500, and a subclass of New York residents asserting violation of New York General Business Law   349. American Express was
granted judgment on all counts following trial and that judgment was affirmed by the Court of Appeal for California on December 17, 2012. Plaintiffs have petitioned the California Supreme Court for review.   
  In addition, a case making the same factual allegations (purportedly on behalf of a different class of Cardmembers) as those in the
 Hoffman  case was pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, entitled  Law Enforcement Systems v. American Express, et al.  On October 5, 2012, the Company s motion to dismiss was granted
and judgment entered for defendants. Plaintiff has filed a notice of appeal.      In July 2004, a purported class action
complaint,  Ross, et al. v. American Express Company, American Express Travel Related Services and American Express Centurion Bank , was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging
that American Express conspired with Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club in the setting of foreign currency conversion rates and in the inclusion of arbitration clauses in certain of their cardmember agreements. The suit seeks injunctive relief and
unspecified damages. The class is defined as  all Visa, MasterCard and Diners Club general-purpose cardholders who used cards issued by any of the MDL Defendant Banks.  American Express cardholders are not part of the class. The parties
reached an agreement to settle the claims asserted on behalf of the damage class concerning foreign currency conversion rates. The settlement was approved in 2012. The claims asserted by the injunction class concerning cardmember arbitration clauses
were not included in the proposed settlement. Trial of those claims concluded in February 2013.      In October 2009, a
putative class action, captioned  Lopez, et al. v. American Express Bank, FSB and American Express Centurion Bank , was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The amended complaint seeks to certify a
class of California American Express Cardmembers whose interest rates were changed from fixed to variable in or around August 2009 or otherwise increased. American Express  motion to compel arbitration and dismiss the complaint was denied by
the Court. Briefing on American Express  appeal of the denial of the motion to compel arbitration is currently stayed.   
  In September 2010, a putative class action, captioned  Meeks v. American Express Centurion Bank , was filed in Fulton County
Superior Court, Georgia, alleging that plaintiff received unilateral interest rate increases despite alleged promises that the rate would remain fixed. In October 2010, the Company removed the matter to federal court. Plaintiffs seek to certify a
nationwide class of all American Express Cardmembers who received unilateral interest rate increases despite their accounts being in good standing. In April 2011, American Express filed a motion to compel arbitration. On January 20, 2012, the
District Court entered an Order administratively closing the action pending further developments in  Ross v. American Express Company  pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.   
  In October 2012, a putative class action captioned  Clarke v. American Express Company, et al.  was filed in the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that American Express Company, American Express   
         91   

Table of Contents  

Travel Related Services, Inc., American Express Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB violated state consumer protection laws, state common law and federal statutory law in the marketing,
selling and implementation of a credit card product known as  Account Protector.  The complaint seeks unspecified compensatory and punitive damages along with injunctive and declaratory relief. The Company filed a motion to compel
arbitration on December 11, 2012.       International Matters       In November 2006, in a matter captioned  Sylvan Adams v. Amex Bank of Canada  filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in November 2004), the Superior
Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges that prior to December 2003, Amex Bank of Canada charged a foreign currency conversion commission on transactions to purchase goods and services in currencies
other than Canadian dollars and failed to disclose the commissions in monthly billing statements or solicitations directed to prospective cardmembers. The action further alleges that conversion commissions made on foreign currency transactions are
credit charges under the Quebec Consumer Protection Act (the  QCPA ) and cannot be charged prior to the 21-day grace period under the QCPA. The class, consisting of all personal and small business cardmembers residing in Quebec that
purchased goods or services in a foreign currency prior to December 2003, claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversion commissions, CDN$1,000 in punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the
 Adams  action commenced, and was completed, in December 2008 after the conclusion of the trial in the  Marcotte  action described below. The Superior Court rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on
June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of approximately CDN$13.1 million plus interest on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Superior Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$2.5 million. Amex Bank of Canada
appealed the judgment and on August 2, 2012, the Court of Appeal overturned the decision in part, with regard to the award of punitive damages. On October 15, 2012, Amex Bank of Canada filed leave for appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.
     In May 2006, in a matter captioned  Marcotte v. Bank of Montreal, et al. , filed in the Superior Court of
Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in April 2003), the Superior Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada, Bank of Montreal, Toronto-Dominion Bank, Royal Bank of Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Scotiabank,
National Bank of Canada, Laurentian Bank of Canada and Citibank Canada. The action alleges that conversion commissions made on foreign currency transactions are credit charges under the QCPA and cannot be charged prior to the 21-day grace period
under the QCPA. The class includes all persons residing in Quebec holding a credit card issued by one of the defendants to whom fees were charged since April 17, 2000, for transactions made in foreign currency before expiration of the period of
21 days following the statement of account. The class claims reimbursement of all foreign currency conversions, CDN$400 per class member for trouble, inconvenience and punitive damages, interest and fees and costs. The trial in the
 Marcotte  action commenced in September 2008 and was completed in November 2008. The Superior Court rendered a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs against Amex Bank of Canada on June 11, 2009, and awarded damages in the amount of
approximately CDN$8.3 million plus interest on the QCPA claims and individual claims to be made on the non-disclosure claims. In addition, the Superior Court awarded punitive damages in the amount of CDN$25.00 per cardmember. The judgment has been
appealed by all banks, including Amex Bank of Canada. On August 2, 2012, the Court of Appeal overturned the decision against Amex Bank of Canada and certain of the other co-defendants. The remaining co-defendants and the plaintiffs filed leave
to appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.      In November 2010 and December 2010, two motions to authorize class actions were
filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal, under the class representative names of  Giroux  and  Marcotte . Both class actions set out the same allegations as the  Marcotte  class action filed in 2006 except the
timeframe for the new class actions starts as of January 1, 2008 wherein the  Marcotte  case under appeal ends as of December 31, 2007. The motions have been stayed pending final judgment in  Marcotte .   
  In November 2006, in a matter captioned  Option Consommateurs and Benoit Fortin v. Amex Bank of Canada  filed in the Superior Court
of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in July 2003), the Superior Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of Canada. The plaintiff alleges the defendant violated the QCPA by imposing finance charges on credit card transactions
prior to 21 days following the receipt of the statement containing the charge. It is alleged that the QCPA provisions, which require a 21-day grace period prior to imposing finance charges, apply to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in
Quebec and all finance charges imposed within the 21 day grace period are contrary to the QCPA. The class seeks reimbursement of all such finance charges, CDN$200 in punitive damages per class member, interest, fees and costs. A motion was brought
in October 2010 to extend the class period from July 18, 2000 to August 31, 2010. Defendants filed a motion to stay the class action pending final judgment in  Marcotte .   
         92   

Table of Contents  

   In May 2005, a motion for authorization of a similar class action to  Fortin  was
filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Quebec City captioned  Option Consommateurs and Joel-Christian St-Pierre v. Bank of Montreal, et al.  alleging that Amex unlawfully charged interest 21 days from the date of the printing
of the statement under the QCPA as opposed to the date of the mailing of the statement. The proposed class seeks reimbursement of all finance charges imposed, CDN$100 in punitive damages per class member, interest and fees and costs. The
 St-Pierre  class motion is stayed pending final judgment in  Marcotte .      In October 2007, in a matter captioned
 Option Consommateurs and Marylou Corriveau v. Amex Bank of Canada, et al. , filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in December 2006), the Superior Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank of
Canada, Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, National Bank of Canada, Royal Bank of Canada, Bank of Nova Scotia, Banque Laurentienne du Canada, President s Choice Bank, Toronto Dominion Bank, Bank of Montreal, Citibank Canada, Federation de
Caisses Desjardins du Quebec and MBNA Canada. The action alleges that cash advance fees for transactions in Canada or abroad cannot be charged under QCPA. The class includes all persons party to a variable credit agreement concluded in Quebec for a
purpose other than the operation of a business and who paid the defendants from October 4, 2001. A motion was granted in October 2010 to extend the class period from October 4, 2001 to September 30, 2010. It is alleged the QCPA
provisions apply to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec and all cash advance fees imposed are contrary to the QCPA. The class seeks reimbursement of all such cash advance fees, CDN$200 in punitive damages per class member, interest
and costs. Defendants filed a motion to stay the class action pending final judgment in  Marcotte .      In October 2007, in
a matter captioned  Option Consommateurs and Serge Lamoureux v. Amex Bank of Canada, et al. , filed in the Superior Court of Quebec, District of Montreal (originally filed in December 2006), the Court authorized a class action against Amex Bank
of Canada, Banque du Montreal, Banque Royale du Canada, Banque Nationale du Canada, Banque Canadienne Imperiale de Commerce, Citibanque Canada, MBNA Canada and Banque de Nouvelle-Ecosse. The plaintiff alleges the defendants violated the QCPA by
unilaterally increasing credit card limits without consent and charging over limit fees from January 12, 2001. There are two distinct areas of the claim. Amex Bank of Canada is not part of the first portion of the claim dealing with the
unilateral increase without consent under the QCPA. Amex Bank of Canada is included in the second portion of the claim permitting Cardmembers to make charges at the point of sale that exceed their credit limit thereby incurring an over-limit fee for
these occurrences contrary to the QCPA. The action alleges the QCPA provisions apply to credit cards issued by Amex Bank of Canada in Quebec. A motion was granted in October 2010 to extend the class period from January 12, 2001 to
September 30, 2010. The class seeks reimbursement of all over-limit fees imposed, CDN$200 in punitive damages per class member, interest and costs. Discovery of Amex Bank of Canada was held in December 2010. Defendants filed a motion to stay
the class action pending final judgment in  Marcotte .       

ITEM 4.   
   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES         Not applicable.   
         93   

Table of Contents  

      PART II    

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      

(a)  
  Our common stock trades principally on The New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol AXP. As of December 31, 2012, we had 32,565 common shareholders of
record. You can find price and dividend information concerning our common stock in Note 27 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which can be found on page 113 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which note is incorporated herein by
reference. For information on dividend restrictions, see  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity   Share Repurchases and Dividends  on page 31 and Note 23 on pages 106-107 of our 2012 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. You can find information on securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans under the captions  Executive Compensation   Equity Compensation
Plans  to be contained in the Company s definitive 2013 proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is scheduled to be held on April 29, 2013. The information to be found under such captions is incorporated herein by
reference. Our definitive 2013 proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders is expected to be filed with the SEC in March 2013 (and, in any event, not later than 120 days after the close of our most recently completed fiscal year).

(b)  
  Not applicable.         

(c)  
   Issuer Purchases of Securities          The
table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases of our common stock made by us or on our behalf during the quarter ended December 31, 2012.       
   
    (1)    As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 83 million shares of common stock
remaining under Board authorization. Such authorization does not have an expiration date. Future share repurchases are subject to approval by the Federal Reserve.   
         94   

Table of Contents  

   (2)    Includes: (i) shares surrendered by holders of employee stock options who
exercised options (granted under our incentive compensation plans) in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation of such holders and (ii) restricted shares withheld (under the terms of grants under our incentive
compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares. Our incentive compensation plans provide that the value of the shares delivered or attested to, or withheld, be based on the price of
our common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs.      (3)    Share purchases under publicly announced programs
are made pursuant to open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions (including with employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices we deem appropriate.   

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA         The  Consolidated Five-Year Summary of Selected Financial Data  appearing on page 114 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.   

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      
  The information set forth under the heading  Financial Review  appearing on pages 16-56 of our 2012 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK      
  The information set forth under the heading  Risk Management  appearing on pages 37-40 and in Note 12 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 87-91 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         The  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  the  Consolidated Financial Statements  and the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  appearing on
pages 65-113 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE      
  Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         The Company s management, with the participation of the Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls
and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )) as of the end of the period covered by this Report. Based on such evaluation, our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of such period, the Company s disclosure controls and procedures are effective and designed to ensure that the information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or
submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed,   
         95   

Table of Contents  

summarized and reported within the requisite time periods specified in the applicable rules and forms, and that it is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   
  There have not been any changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the Company s fourth quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.
      Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,  which sets forth management s
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, and the  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012,
appearing on pages 57 and 58 of our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not applicable.         PART III

ITEMS 10, 11, 12 and 13.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE; EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION; SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS; CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         We
expect to file with the SEC in March 2013 (and, in any event, not later than 120 days after the close of our last fiscal year), a definitive proxy statement, pursuant to SEC Regulation 14A in connection with our Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held April 29, 2013 ,  which involves the election of directors. The following information to be included in such proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference:   

Information included under the caption  Corporate Governance at American Express   Corporate Governance Principles and Practices   Board
Independence           

Information included in the table under the caption  Corporate Governance at American Express   Board Meetings and Board Committees  
Board Committee Membership           

Information under the captions  Corporate Governance at American Express   Board Meetings and Board Committees   Board Committee
Responsibilities   Compensation and Benefits Committee   Compensation and Benefits Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Executive Compensation   Report of the Compensation and Benefits Committee 

Information included under the caption  Corporate Governance at American Express   Board Meetings and Board Committees   Board Committee
Responsibilities   Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee           

Information included under the caption  Compensation of Directors       

Information included under the caption  Ownership of Our Common Shares       

Information included under the caption  Item 1   Election of Directors       

Information included under the caption  Executive Compensation       

Information under the caption  Additional Information   Certain Relationships and Transactions       
         96   

Table of Contents  

Information under the caption  Additional Information   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance 
        In addition, the information regarding executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of
Regulation S-K may be found under the caption  Executive Officers of the Company  in this Report.      We have
adopted a set of Corporate Governance Principles, which together with the charters of the five standing committees of the Board of Directors (Audit, Risk and Compliance; Compensation and Benefits; Innovation and Technology; Nominating and
Governance; and Public Responsibility), our Code of Conduct (which constitutes the Company s code of ethics) and the Code of Business Conduct for the Members of the Board of Directors, provide the framework for the governance of the Company. A
complete copy of our Corporate Governance Principles, the charters of each of the Board committees, the Code of Conduct (which applies not only to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Comptroller, but also to all other employees
of the Company) and the Code of Business Conduct for the Members of the Board of Directors may be found by clicking on the  Corporate Governance  link found on our Investor Relations Web site at http://ir.americanexpress.com. You may also
access our Investor Relations Web site through the Company s main Web site at www.americanexpress.com by clicking on the  About American Express  link, which is located at the bottom of the Company s homepage. (Information from
such sites is not incorporated by reference into this Report.) You may also obtain free copies of these materials by writing to our Secretary at the Company s headquarters.   

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES         The information set forth under the heading  Item 2   Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Fees and Services, 
which will appear in the Company s definitive proxy statement in connection with our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 29, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference.   
     PART IV    

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a)      1.     Financial Statements :   
  The financial statements filed as a part of this Report are listed on page F-1 hereof under  Index to Financial
Statements,  which is incorporated herein by reference.      2.     Financial Statement Schedules :
     All schedules are omitted since the required information is either not applicable, not deemed material, or shown in the
respective financial statements or in notes thereto.      3.     Exhibits :   
  The list of exhibits required to be filed as exhibits to this Report is listed on pages E-1 through E-4 hereof under
 Exhibit Index,  which is incorporated herein by reference.   
         97   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   

/ S / D ANIEL  T. H ENRY    
 
   Daniel T. Henry    
 
     Executive Vice President and       Chief Financial Officer     
 
   February 21, 2013      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

/ S / K ENNETH  I. C HENAULT    
      
    / S / R ICHARD  C.
L EVIN     
 
     Kenneth I. Chenault       Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director    
      
     Richard C. Levin       Director     

/ S / D ANIEL  T. H ENRY    
      
    / S / R ICHARD  A.
M C G INN     
 
     Daniel T. Henry       Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
      
     Richard A. McGinn       Director     

/ S / L INDA  Z UKAUCKAS    
      
    / S / E DWARD  D. M ILLER     
 
     Linda Zukauckas       Executive Vice President and Comptroller    
      
     Edward D. Miller       Director     

/ S / C HARLENE  B ARSHEFSKY    

/ S / S TEVEN  S
R EINEMUND     
 
     Charlene Barshefsky       Director    
      
     Steven S Reinemund       Director     

/ S / U RSULA  M. B URNS    
      
    / S / D ANIEL  V ASELLA     

Ursula M. Burns       Director    
      
     Daniel Vasella       Director     

/ S / P ETER  C HERNIN    
      
    / S / R OBERT  D.
W ALTER     
 
     Peter Chernin       Director    
      
     Robert D. Walter       Director     

/ S / T HEODORE  J. L EONSIS    

/ S / R ONALD  A.
W ILLIAMS     
 
     Theodore J. Leonsis       Director    
      
     Ronald A. Williams       Director     

/ S / J AN  L ESCHLY    

Jan Leschly       Director    

February 21, 2013   
         98   

Table of Contents  

    AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY    
     INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        (Items 15(a)(1) and 15(a)(2) of Form 10-K)        

Form 10-K   

Annual Report to Shareholders (Page)   

Data incorporated by reference from 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders:   

Management s report on internal control over financial reporting   

57  

Report of independent registered public accounting firm (PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP)   

58  

Consolidated statements of income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012   

60  

Consolidated statements of comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2012   

61  

Consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2012 and 2011   

62  

Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012   

63  

Consolidated statements of shareholders  equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2012   

64  

Notes to consolidated financial statements   

65  

Consent of independent registered public accounting firm   

F-2  

Schedules:      All schedules for American Express Company and subsidiaries have been omitted since the required information is not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or
because the information required is included in the respective financial statements or notes thereto. Refer to Notes 4, 5 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders for information on accounts
receivable reserves, loan reserves and condensed financial information of the Parent Company only, respectively.   
  *        *        *   
  The Consolidated Financial Statements of American Express Company (including the report of independent registered public accounting firm)
listed in the above index, which are included in our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, are hereby incorporated by reference. With the exception of the pages listed in the above index, unless otherwise incorporated by reference elsewhere in this
Report, our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders is not to be deemed filed as part of this report.  
         F-1

Table of Contents  

    Exhibit 23.1    
   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 33-53801, No. 333-52699, No. 333-98479 and No. 333-142710), Form S-3
(No. 2-89469, No. 333-32525 and No. 333-185242), and Form S-4 (No. 333-185969) of American Express Company of our report dated February 22, 2013, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      New York, New York   
  February 22, 2013   
         F-2

Table of Contents  

      EXHIBIT INDEX    
  The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report. The exhibit numbers preceded by an asterisk (*) indicate exhibits
electronically filed herewith. All other exhibit numbers indicate exhibits previously filed and are hereby incorporated herein by reference. Exhibits numbered 10.1 through 10.39 are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.

E-1

Table of Contents  

E-2

Table of Contents  

E-3

Table of Contents  

E-4

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
    
   Form 10-K        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF        THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934        
           
   American Express Company        (Exact name of Company as specified in charter)        EXHIBITS

<EX-10.31>
 2
 d486442dex1031.htm
 EX-10.31

EX-10.31 

Exhibit 10.31        FOURTH AMENDMENT        TO THE    
   AMERICAN EXPRESS RETIREMENT RESTORATION PLAN        WHEREAS,  pursuant to its delegation powers, the Compensation and Benefits Committee (the  CBC ) of the Board of Directors of American Express Company (the  Company ) has
authorized the Senior Vice President Global Compensation   Benefits of the Company generally to take certain actions with respect to the American Express Retirement Restoration (the  Plan ) as he shall deem reasonably necessary or
appropriate; and       WHEREAS,  the undersigned Senior Vice President Global Compensation   Benefits deems it
reasonably necessary and appropriate to make the amendments set forth below; now       THEREFORE,  the Plan is hereby amended
as set forth below, effective as set forth below (provided that clarifying provisions reflect preexisting administrative interpretation):   
   1.      The following clarifying sentence is added to the end of Section 2.1(y) of the Plan, effective immediately:
      By way of clarification, Incentive Pay is calculated prior to reduction for amounts which would have been paid to a
Participant but which instead are contributed by the Company to an employee benefit plan pursuant to a salary reduction agreement and which are not includible in the gross income of the Participant under Sections 125, 132(a)(5), 132(f)(4), 402 or
403(b) of the Code (or which are includible in income but considered elective deferrals pursuant to Section 402(A) of the Code).   
   2.      Section 4.2(b)(i) of the Plan is amended to read as follows, effective January 1, 2013 and for the 2012
open enrollment period:       (i) have an Account under the Plan from a prior Plan Year (provided that, solely for purposes of
determining eligibility to participate, a Participant who would have had an Account balance had he or she accepted a previous offer to participate in the Plan shall be treated as having an Account balance); or   
   3.      Section 5.3(c)(i) of the Plan is amended to read as follows, effective January 1, 2013:    
  (i) amounts may not be directed to the Stock Fund in excess of limits established by the Plan or Administrator pursuant to Article 7,
and any amounts directed to the Stock Fund in excess of those limits will be redirected in accordance with Article 7; and   
         Page
   1  of  4      

4.      Section 7.4 of the Plan is amended to read as follows, effective
January 1, 2013:       (a)     For each Participant, credits to his or her RSP-Related and Deferral
Account (to the extent subject to the Hypothetical Investment Method) shall be made to such subaccounts thereunder as directed by such Participant, using the subaccounts described in Section 5.3, provided, however, that with respect to Deferral
Benefits attributable to Plan Years prior to 2011, the Participant may elect to have all or some of such Deferral Benefits invested in an investment option that credits earnings at the AFR instead of in the Stock Fund or the RSP-based investment
options, and provided further that no Participant may transfer amounts to the subaccount representing the Stock Fund to the extent that such transfer would result in the aggregate Company Stock holdings of such Participant under the Plan exceeding
ten percent of (i) the total value of his or her Deferral Account (determined at the time of the transfer) with respect to the investment of the Deferral Account or (ii) the total value of his or her RSP-Related Account (determined at the
time of the transfer) with respect to the investment of the RSP-Related Account, nor may a Participant direct that more than ten percent of new contributions made to the RSP-Related Account or the Deferral Account, respectively, be directed to the
subaccount representing the Stock Fund. If more than one subaccount is available, a Participant must designate, on a form or other medium acceptable to the Administrator, in one-percent increments, the amounts to be credited to each subaccount. A
Participant shall be allowed to amend such designation consistent with the frequency of investment changes offered the Participant under rules governing the RSP for a given Plan Year, subject to any different or additional rules as may be
established by the Administrator for this Plan. If a Participant has directed the transfer of amounts to the Stock Fund and the credits to the relevant Account of a Participant to the subaccount relating to the Stock Fund would result in the
aggregate Company Stock holdings of such Participant under the Plan exceeding ten percent of the total value of such Account (determined at the time of the transfer) or has directed new contributions to an Account to the Stock Fund in an amount
which would result in new contributions to such Account s subaccount representing the Stock Fund exceeding ten percent of new contributions to such Account, then such Participant shall be deemed to have selected, with respect to any such
excess, the default subaccount designated by the Administrator (which shall be deemed to be the subaccount representing the fund designated as the default fund under the RSP, unless the Administrator directs the use of a different fund).   
  (b)     To the extent a Participant elects to invest in the subaccount representing the Stock Fund, subject to
Sections 7.4(d) and 7.6, the limit on such investments set forth above, and such rules as may be adopted by the Administrator, the performance of the book reserve subaccount established for each Participant pursuant to Section 5.3 or
Section 6.6 shall reflect the performance of the Stock Fund. Such subaccount shall reflect such increases or decreases in value from time to time, whether from dividends, gains, losses or otherwise, as may be experienced by the Stock Fund.
Subject to Section 7.6 and to such rules as may be adopted by the Administrator, a Participant may elect to transfer credits among the Stock Fund and one or more subaccounts representing other investment options in a manner similar to the rules
for such transfers under the RSP and such different or additional rules as the Administrator may establish for this Plan; provided, however, no Participant may transfer amounts to the subaccount representing the Stock Fund to the extent that such
transfer would violate a limit on such investment established by the Plan or the Administrator.   
         Page
   2  of  4      

(c)     To the extent the Participant does not elect (or is not
permitted) to invest in the subaccount representing the Stock Fund, subject to Section 7.4(d), and to such rules as may be adopted by the Administrator, the performance of each book reserve subaccount established for each Participant shall
reflect the performance of the investment fund that the Participant elects to have such subaccount represent. Each such subaccount shall reflect such increases or decreases in value from time to time, whether from dividends, gains, losses or
otherwise, as that experienced by the related investment fund under the RSP or, in the case of the AFR investment option, as indicated by the AFR. Subject to Section 7.6, credits to such subaccounts may be transferred to any other subaccount
under the Plan in a manner similar to the rules for such transfers under the RSP, on such terms and at such times as permitted with respect to the related investment funds under the RSP and such similar rules as may be established for the AFR
option, subject in each case to such rules as may be adopted by the Administrator for this Plan. If a Participant fails to affirmatively designate one or more subaccounts pursuant to this Section 7.4(c), subject to rules established by the
Administrator, such Participant shall be deemed to have selected a default account selected by the Administrator (which shall be deemed to be the subaccount representing the fund designated as the default fund under the RSP, unless the Administrator
directs the use of a different fund). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, provide that one or more investment funds available under the RSP, including any self-directed brokerage account which may be
available under the RSP, shall not be available for designation under the Plan.      (d)     The subaccounts
shall be valued subject to such reasonable rules and procedures as the Administrator may adopt and apply to all Participants similarly situated with an effort to value such subaccounts as if amounts designated were invested at similar times and in
manners, subject to administrative convenience, as amounts are invested, and subject to the same market fluctuation factors used in valuing such investments in the RSP.       5.      The last sentence of Section 8.1(a) of the Plan is clarified to read as follows, effective immediately:    
  A Participant who has experienced a Separation from Service and is to receive or has begun receiving payments as set forth above, shall
continue receiving any remaining payments according to the terms in effect on the date of his or her Separation from Service, even if later re-employed by the Company.       6.      The last sentence of Section 8.2(c)(i)(A) of the Plan is clarified to read as follows, effective immediately:    
  A Participant who has experienced a Separation from Service and is to receive or has begun receiving payments as set forth above, shall
continue receiving any remaining payments according to the terms in effect on the date of his or her Separation from Service, even if later re-employed by the Company.   
         Page
   3  of  4      

7.      The last sentence of Section 8.2(c)(ii) of the Plan is clarified to
read as follows, effective immediately:       A Participant who has experienced a Separation from Service and is to receive or
has begun receiving payments as set forth above, shall continue receiving any remaining payments according to the terms in effect on the date of his or her Separation from Service, even if later re-employed by the Company.   
   8.      A new paragraph is added to the end of Section 8.3 of the Plan to read as follows, effective January 1,
2013:       Effective for Participants who die on or after January 1, 2013, if a Participant has designated his or her
spouse as his or her beneficiary for either or both Accounts, that designation shall automatically become null and void in the event of the Participant s divorce, without prejudice, however, to any rights the former spouse may be granted
pursuant to a domestic relations order applicable to the Plan. In the event that a beneficiary designation is voided hereunder, the benefit shall be paid as if the former spouse had pre-deceased the Participant. A Participant who wishes the former
spouse to be his or her beneficiary may file a new beneficiary designation form naming the former spouse after the date of divorce. These rules will also apply in the event a beneficiary is permitted to designate a beneficiary and becomes divorced
from the person named as beneficiary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Plan nor any other person will be liable for payment made to a named beneficiary prior to the date that the Plan is notified that such person is a divorced spouse.

Dated:   
     
  10/24/2012  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY    

By:   
     
    /s/ David Kasiarz   

Its:   
     
  SVP Global Compensation   Benefits   
 
         Page
   4  of  4      

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.33>
 3
 d486442dex1033.htm
 EX-10.33

EX-10.33 

EXHIBIT 10.33        AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY        2003 SHARE EQUIVALENT UNIT PLAN FOR DIRECTORS
      (As amended and restated effective November 20, 2012)       Section 1. Effective Date       The effective date of this Plan is April 28, 2003,
except as otherwise provided herein.       Section 2. Eligibility       Any Director of American Express Company (the  Company ) who is not a current or former officer or employee of the Company or a subsidiary thereof is eligible to participate in this 2003 Share
Equivalent Unit Plan for Directors (this  Plan ).       Section 3. Administration    
  The Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ) shall administer this Plan. The Committee shall have all the
powers necessary to administer this Plan, including the right to interpret the provisions of this Plan and to establish rules and prescribe any forms for the administration of this Plan.       Section 4. SEU Accounts       The Committee shall, on an annual basis, determine, in its
discretion, either a number or a value of Share Equivalent Units ( SEUs ) to be credited to a book-entry account established for each non-employee Director under this Plan upon his or her election or reelection to the Board of Directors of
the Company at the Annual Meeting of the Company s Shareholders held in such year,  provided  that the number of SEUs to be credited must be the same for each such non-employee Director for such year. If the Committee specifies the value
of SEUs to be awarded, the number of SEUs to be awarded shall be equal to the specified value divided by the average of the average market price of the Company s common stock, par value $0.20 per share ( the Common Shares ), as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Tape for the fifteen (15) trading days immediately preceding the date of the Annual Meeting of the Company s Shareholders. At certain times the Company may be temporarily
precluded from crediting Directors  accounts as a result of the application of securities or other laws. In such instance, the Committee will credit the accounts as soon as feasible thereafter, but no later than December 31st of the
applicable year.       Section 5. Dividend Equivalents       On any dividend payment date for the Common Shares, dividend equivalents in the form of additional SEUs will be credited to the Director s account equal to (i) the per share cash dividend,
multiplied by (ii) the number of SEUs credited to such Director s account prior to the payment of dividends on such payment date, divided by (iii) the average market price of the Common Shares on the payment date. At certain times the
Company may be temporarily precluded from crediting Directors  accounts as a result of the application of securities or other laws. In such instance, the Committee will credit the accounts as soon as feasible thereafter, but no later than
December 31st of the year in which the dividend is paid.   

Section 6. Stock Splits       In the event of any change in the outstanding Common Shares of the Company by reasons of any stock split, stock dividend, split up, split-off, spin-off, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, rights
offering, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares, a sale by the Company of all or part of its assets, any distribution to the shareholders other than a normal cash dividend, or other extraordinary or unusual event, the number of SEUs
credited to a Director s account shall be automatically adjusted on the same basis so that the proportionate interest of the Director under this Plan shall be maintained as before the occurrence of such event.   
   Section 7. Valuing Units Payable to Directors       On any date on which SEUs are payable to a Director (other than in the case of SEUs paid in respect of the payment of dividends), the SEUs will be valued for payment by multiplying the applicable number
of units by the average of the average market price of a Common Share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Tape for the fifteen (15) trading days immediately preceding the date of payment.   
  For purposes of Section 4 and this Section 7, the average market price on any valuation date under this Plan shall be the average of the
highest and lowest sales prices of the stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Tape.       Section 8. Form
of Distribution of Account Balance       Upon a Director s separation from service, the time and form of distribution under his or her
election in effect under the Company s Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors (the  DCP ) on such date shall govern the distribution of the Director s SEU account under this Plan. In the absence of a valid election under the
DCP, a Director will be deemed to have elected to receive the SEUs that have accumulated in the Director s account in a lump sum upon such Director s separation from service. All distributions will be paid in cash.   
   Section 9. Death Prior to Receipt    
  In the event that a Director dies prior to receipt of any or all of the amounts payable to him or her pursuant to this Plan, any amounts that are then
credited to the Director s SEU account shall be paid to the legal representatives of the Director s estate in a lump sum within ninety (90) days following the date of the Director s death, or such later date permitted by
Section 409A.       Section 10. Director s Rights Unsecured       The right of any Director to receive future payments under the provisions of this Plan shall be an unsecured, contractual claim against the general assets of the Company. This Plan shall be unfunded. The
Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate fund or to make any segregation of assets the payment of any amounts under this Plan.      Participants may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, levy, attach, encumber or alienate any amounts payable under this Plan.   
         2   

Section 11. Statement of Account       A statement of account will be sent to each Director not later than sixty (60) days after the close of each calendar quarter, which will confirm the Director s SEU account balance as of the end
of the preceding quarter.       Section 12. Amendment       This Plan may be amended at any time and from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may not adopt any amendment that would
(a) materially and adversely affect any right of or benefit to any Director with respect to any SEUs theretofore credited without such Director s written consent, or (b) result in a violation of Section 409A. Any amendment to
this Plan that would cause a violation of Section 409A shall be null and void and of no effect.       Section 13. Termination
      This Plan shall terminate upon the adoption of a resolution of the Board of Directors terminating this Plan.   
  The termination of this Plan shall not affect the distribution of the SEU accounts maintained under this Plan, and the balances of such accounts shall
continue to become due and payable in accordance with the provisions of this Plan in effect immediately prior to the termination of this Plan and each Director s election; provided, however, if the Board of Directors so chooses, the payment of
account balances may be accelerated upon the termination of this Plan to the extent permissible under and in accordance with Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(xi) of the treasury regulations.       Section 14. Section 409A       This Plan and the benefits provided thereunder are
intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A, and this Plan shall be administered and interpreted consistent with such intention and the America Express Section 409A Compliance Policy.   
  *        *        *      
  *        *   
         3   

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 4
 d486442dex1034.htm
 EX-10.34

EX-10.34 

EXHIBIT 10.34        DESCRIPTION OF COMPENSATION PAYABLE TO NON-MANAGEMENT DIRECTORS       Upon the recommendation
of the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of American Express Company, on November 20, 2012, the Board approved the payment of the following compensation to each non-management director of the Board in respect of
his/her service on the Board effective January 1, 2013:       

an annual retainer of $90,000; provided that this amount shall be reduced by $20,000 if the Director does not attend at least 75% of the meetings of
the Board and meetings of the committees on which the Director serves;          

a grant of Share Equivalent Units having a value of $155,000 to be awarded under the 2003 Share Equivalent Unit Plan for Directors upon the
Director s election or reelection to the Board at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders;          

an annual retainer of $20,000 for the chairs of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and Compensation and Benefits Committee, and an annual
retainer of $10,000 for the chairs of the Innovation and Technology Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and Public Responsibility Committee;      

an annual retainer of $20,000 for each member of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, an annual retainer of $10,000 for each member of the
Compensation and Benefits Committee, and an annual retainer of $5,000 for each member of the Innovation and Technology Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, and Public Responsibility Committee;      

an annual lead director fee of $20,000 (provided that if the lead director is the chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee, the retainer for
service as chair of the Nominating and Governance Committee shall not be paid); and          

reimbursement of customary expenses for attending Board, committee, and shareholder meetings.      

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.38>
 5
 d486442dex1038.htm
 EX-10.38

EX-10.38 

Exhibit 10.38        AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY        2007 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
       PERFORMANCE GRANT        (ALSO KNOWN AS THE                INCENTIVE AWARD)        TO         
       Name of
Employee       

__________________   
      
  _______________________   
 
    Award Date   
      
  Award Period   
    We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to the Company s 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, as
amended (the  Plan ), the Compensation and Benefits Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors (the  Board ) of American Express Company (the  Company ), made to you an award of a Performance Grant
under Section 8 of the Plan that is also a Qualifying Award under Section 9 of the Plan, as hereinafter set forth (the  Award  or the                 Incentive
Award ) as of the award date specified above (the  Award Date ). This Award is commonly referred to as an annual bonus or annual incentive award ( AIA ). This Award is subject to the Detrimental Conduct Provisions
established by the Committee, and as from time to time amended.      1.  General . You have been granted the Award subject to
the provisions of the Plan and the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in this agreement (this  Agreement ). The Award Period is specified above, and the last day of the Award Period is the  Expiration Date.    
  2.  Requirement of Employment . Your rights to the Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units, if any
(as those terms are defined below) under Subparagraph 4(b) hereof, shall be provisional and shall be canceled if your continuous employment with the Company and its Affiliates or your Related Employment (as that term is defined in the Plan)
(hereinafter collectively referred to as  employment with the American Express companies ), terminates for any reason on or before the payment date as set forth in Subparagraph 4(b). Whether and as of what date your employment with the
American Express companies shall terminate if you are granted a leave of absence or commence any other break in employment intended by the Company to be temporary, shall be determined by the Committee.   
  3.  Determination of the Schedule A Value, Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units .   
  (a) Except as otherwise provided below in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2 and 5 hereof, there shall be paid to you in accordance
with Paragraph 4 hereof, the Schedule A Value (as reduced pursuant to Subparagraph 3(c)) as of the last day of the Award Period, if any, as provided in Subparagraph 3(b).   

(b)  Schedule A Value .   
  (i) Except as otherwise provided in this Paragraph 3, the Schedule A Value as of the last day of the Award Period will be equal to the
amount, if any, determined by the Committee based on the performance (i.e., 20           Return on Equity and 20           Earnings Per Share) of the Company,
pursuant to Schedule A to this Agreement. However, in no event will the Schedule A Value be greater than the maximum value as set forth in Schedule A to this Agreement.      (ii) The Committee shall determine in its own discretion what portion of the Schedule A Value, if any (as adjusted in accordance with Subparagraph 3(c) below), shall be payable in cash (the  Cash
Value ), and what portion shall be denominated in restricted shares or restricted stock units of the Company (the  RSA  or the  RSU ), in accordance with Paragraph 4 below. The RSA or the RSU shall have the terms
substantially as set forth in the form of restricted stock or restricted stock unit award granted generally under the Plan, or its successor, provided that the RSA or the RSU shall vest pursuant to a period determined in the Committee s
discretion, except that such vesting period shall not be less than one year from date of grant, and be forfeitable only if your employment with the American Express companies terminates by reason of voluntary resignation or terminates for cause
(that is, violation of the Code of Conduct as in effect from time to time) prior to the applicable vesting dates, except if the Committee in its own discretion determines that the RSA or the RSU shall not be forfeitable upon termination of
employment. The number of restricted shares or restricted stock units of the Company comprising the RSA or the RSU (the  Number of Restricted Shares  or the  Number of Restricted Stock Units ) shall be determined by dividing such
portion of the Schedule A Value so designated by the Committee, if any, by the closing price of the shares on the date that the Committee approves payout of the Awards, and shall be payable in the form of an RSA or an RSU in accordance with
Paragraph 4 below.      (iii) For purposes of this Award, all accounting terms are defined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles as set forth in the Company s annual audited financial statements, except as otherwise provided below (which will take into account, in each case, the expenses and other financial effect for the applicable year(s) of
performance grants under the Plan):      (A)  Net Income  means, for any given year, the after-tax net income (or loss)
of the Company or of a segment or other part of the Company, as the case may be, for such year as adjusted below, as reported by the Company. The calculation of Net Income, for any given year, will be adjusted to exclude:   

reported cumulative effect of accounting changes;          

reported income and losses from discontinued operations; and      

reported extraordinary gains and losses as determined under generally accepted accounting principles.      
  (B)  Average Annual Shareholders  Equity  means, for any given year, the sum of the total shareholders  equity of
the Company or of a segment or other part of the Company, as the case may be, as of the first day of such year and as of the end of each month during such period (each as reported by the Company), divided by 13.   
         2   

(C)  Return on Equity  means, for any given year, the Net Income for such year
divided by the Average Annual Shareholders  Equity for such year.      (D)  Earnings Per Share  means, for any
given year, the diluted earnings (or loss) per share of the Company for such year, as reported by the Company. The calculation of Earnings Per Share, for any given year, will be adjusted in the same fashion as Net Income for such year.   
  (iv) To the extent permissible for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
 Code ), in the event of any change in the corporate capitalization of the Company, such as by reason of any stock split, or a material corporate transaction, such as any merger of the Company into another corporation, any consolidation of
the Company and one or more corporations into another corporation, any separation of the Company (including a spin-off or other distribution of stock or property by the Company), any reorganization of the Company (whether or not such reorganization
comes within the definition of such term in Section 368 of the Code), or any partial or complete liquidation by the Company, other than a normal cash dividend, if the Committee shall determine that such a change equitably requires an adjustment
in the calculation or terms of Earnings Per Share, on the grounds that any such change would produce an unreasonable value, such equitable adjustment will be made by the Committee. Any such determination by the Committee to reflect such change under
this Subparagraph 3(b)(iv) shall be final, binding and conclusive.      (c) As soon as practicable after the last day of the Award
Period, the Committee will determine, in its sole discretion, that the Schedule A Value, if any (as determined above in Subparagraph 3(b)), may be adjusted downward, but in no event upward, by a percentage from 0-100%. In no event may the Committee
amend any provision hereof so as to increase or otherwise adjust upward the Schedule A Value. In exercising its discretion to make a downward adjustment, the Committee will take into account factors such as: (i) the increase in shareholder
value (as indicated, for example, by shareholder return, earnings growth and return on equity); (ii) customer satisfaction (as indicated, for example, by customer satisfaction measures, client retention and growth in products and services);
(iii) employee satisfaction (as indicated, for example, by the employee values survey results); (iv) implementation of initiatives (as indicated, for example, by process changes that achieve significant results); (v) achievement of
reengineering initiatives (as indicated, for example, by cost savings); and (vi) such other factors deemed relevant by the Committee; provided that any such determination by the Committee need not be made in a uniform manner and may be made
selectively among holders of awards of performance grants, whether or not such award holders are similarly situated.      (d) The
Committee s determinations as to the Schedule A Value, the Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or the Number of Restricted Stock Units pursuant to this Agreement shall be final, binding and conclusive upon you and all persons
claiming under or through you.   
         3   

4.  Payment of Award .   
  (a) As soon as practicable after the last day of the Award Period, the Committee shall determine whether the conditions of Paragraphs 2
and 3 hereof have been met and, if so, shall ascertain the Schedule A Value (and the negative adjustment thereto), Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or the Number of Restricted Stock Units, if any, in accordance with Paragraph 3 hereof.
     (b) If the Committee determines that there is no Schedule A Value, this Award will be canceled. If the Committee determines
that there is some Schedule A Value, however, the Cash Value as determined pursuant to Paragraph 3 hereof shall become payable to you in cash, and the Number of Restricted Shares or the Number of Restricted Stock Units shall be issued to you in the
form of a restricted stock or restricted stock unit award under the Plan, within fifteen business days following the regularly scheduled payroll payment date of the applicable pay period beginning after January 31 of the year following the
Award Period, but in no event later than 90 days after January 31 of the year following the Award Period (or at such other time or times as the Committee shall determine as provided in Paragraph 6 below).   
  5.  Termination of Employment after the Award Period but on or before the Payment Date . If, after the last day of the Award Period
and on or before the date specified above in Subparagraph 4(b), but during a period when you have been in continuous employment with the American Express companies since the Award Date, you terminate your employment with the American Express
companies for any reason, then you and all others claiming under or through you shall not be entitled to receive any amounts or awards under this Award, except as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.   
  6.  Deferral or Acceleration of Payment of Award . Any payments to be made under this Award may be deferred or accelerated in such
manner as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that any such deferral or acceleration must comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code. As to such a deferral of payment, any such payment in excess of the
amount that was originally payable to you under this Agreement will be based on a reasonable interest rate or on one or more predetermined actual investments (whether or not assets associated with the amount are actually invested therein) as
determined by the Committee, and as to such an acceleration of payment to you under this Agreement, any such payment will be discounted to reasonably reflect the time value of money as determined by the Committee.   
  7.  Change in Control .      (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Award to the contrary, if you have not received payment under this Award as discussed in Subparagraph 4(b) above, and within two years following a Change in Control,
as that term is defined in the Company s Senior Executive Severance Plan, you experience a separation from service (as that term is defined for purposes of Section 409A of the Code) that would otherwise entitle you to receive the payment
of severance benefits under the provisions of the severance plan that you participate in as of the date of such separation from service, then you shall be paid under this Award, subject to Paragraph 15, within five days after the date of such
separation from service, a cash payment under this Award equal to the value of (i) (A) the average award paid or payable to you under the 20           and
20           Annual Incentive Award or such other annual incentive award program of the Company or one of its subsidiaries that you participated in at the time of such prior payment for the two years
  
         4   

prior to the Change in Control, or (B) if you have not received two such awards, the most recent award paid or payable (or guideline amount payable, if you have not previously received any
such award) to you under the applicable annual incentive award program of the Company or one of its subsidiaries at the time of such prior payment), multiplied by (ii) the number of full or partial months that have elapsed during the Award
Period at the time of such separation from service divided by 12.      (b) The Committee reserves the right to amend or delete
this Paragraph 7 in whole or in part at any time and from time to time; provided, that upon and following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Committee may not amend this Paragraph 7 in a manner that is detrimental to your rights without your
express written consent. Any amendment of the definition of  Change in Control  in the Senior Executive Severance Plan will be deemed to be an amendment permitted under this Paragraph.   
  8.  Tax Withholding and Furnishing of Information . There shall be withheld from any payment of cash or vesting of any restricted
shares or restricted stock units under this Award, such amount, if any, as the Company determines is required by law, including, but not limited to, U.S. federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other taxes incurred by reason of making
of the Award or of such payment. It shall be a condition precedent to the obligation of the Company to make payments under this Award that you (or those claiming under or through you) promptly provide the Company with all forms, documents or other
information reasonably required by the Company in connection with the Award.      9.  Rights Not Assignable . Your rights and
interests under the Award and the Plan may not be sold, assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, or made subject to any encumbrance, pledge, hypothecation or charge of any nature, except that you may designate a beneficiary pursuant to
Paragraph 10 hereof. If you (or those claiming under or through you) attempt to violate this Paragraph 9, such attempted violation shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company s obligation to make any further payments to you (or
those claiming under or through you) hereunder shall terminate.      10.  Beneficiary Designation . Subject to the provisions
of the Plan, you may, by completing a form acceptable to the Company and returning it to the Corporate Secretary s Office, at 200 Vesey Street, New York, New York 10285, name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any payment to which you
may become entitled under this Agreement in the event of your death. You may change your beneficiary or beneficiaries from time to time by submitting a new form to the Corporate Secretary s Office at the same address. If you do not designate a
beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date any amount or award becomes payable under this Agreement, such payment will be made to the legal representatives of your estate, which will be deemed to be your designated
beneficiary under this Agreement.      11.  Administration . Any action taken or decision made by the Company, the Board or
the Committee or its delegates arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation or effect of the Plan or this Agreement shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion, as the case may be, and shall be final,
conclusive and binding upon you and all persons claiming under or through you. By accepting this Award or other benefit under the Plan, you and each person claiming under or through you shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated acceptance and
ratification of, and consent to, any action taken or decision made under the Plan by the Company, the Board or the Committee or its delegates.   
         5   

12.  Change in Control Payments . This Paragraph shall apply in the event of Change in
Control (as defined in the American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan, as amended from time to time).      (a) In the event
that any payment or benefit received or to be received by you hereunder in connection with a Change in Control or termination of your employment (hereinafter referred to collectively as the  Payments ) will be subject to the excise tax
referred to in Section 4999 of the Code (the  Excise Tax ), then the Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that no portion of the Payments is subject to the Excise Tax but only if (a) the net amount of all Total
Payments (as hereinafter defined), as so reduced (and after subtracting the net amount of federal, state and local income and employment taxes on such reduced Total Payments) is greater than or equal to (b) the net amount of such Total Payments
without any such reduction (but after subtracting the net amount of federal, state and local income and employment taxes on such Total Payments and the amount of Excise Tax to which you would be subject in respect of such unreduced Total Payments;
provided, however, that you may elect in writing to have other components of your Total Payments reduced, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, prior to any reduction in the Payments hereunder.   
  (b) For purposes of determining whether the Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax, the amount of such Excise Tax and whether any
Payments are to be reduced hereunder: (A) all payments and benefits received or to be received by you in connection with such Change in Control or the termination of your employment, whether pursuant to the terms of this Plan or any other plan,
arrangement or agreement with the Company, any Person whose actions result in such Change in Control, or any Person affiliated with the Company or such Person (collectively,  Total Payments ) shall be treated as  parachute
payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) unless, in the opinion of the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to the Change in Control, the Company s independent auditor, or if that firm refuses to serve,
by another qualified firm, whether or not serving as independent auditors, designated by the Committee (the  Firm ), such payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, including by reason of
Section 280G(2)(A) or Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code; (B) no portion of the Total Payments the receipt or enjoyment of which you shall have waived at such time and in such manner as not to constitute a  payment  within
the meaning of Section 280G(b) of the Code shall be taken into account; (C) all  excess parachute payments  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax unless, in the
opinion of the Firm, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable compensation for services actually rendered (within the meaning of Section 280G(g)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the  base amount 
(within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code) allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax; and (D) the value of any non-cash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be
determined by the Firm in accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code and regulations or other guidance thereunder. For purposes of determining whether any of your Payments shall be reduced, you shall be deemed to
pay federal income tax at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation (and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of your residence, net of the maximum reduction in federal income
taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes) in the calendar year in which the Payments are made. The Firm will be paid reasonable compensation by the Company for its services.   
         6   

(c) As soon as practicable following a Change in Control, but in no event later than 30 days
thereafter, if your Payments are proposed to be reduced, the Company shall provide to you a written statement setting forth the manner in which your Total Payments were calculated and the basis for such calculations, including, without limitation,
any opinions or other advice the Company has received from the Firm or other advisors or consultants (and any such opinions or advice which are in writing shall be attached to the statement).   
  13.  Miscellaneous . Neither you nor any person claiming under or through you shall have any right or interest, whether vested or
otherwise, in the Plan or the Award, unless and until all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Agreement shall have been complied with. In addition, neither the adoption of the Plan nor the execution of this Agreement shall
in any way affect the rights and powers of any person to dismiss or discharge you at any time from employment with the American Express companies. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates (as
that term is defined in the Plan) nor their respective officers, directors, employees or agents shall have any liability to you (or those claiming under or through you) under the Plan, this Agreement or otherwise on account of any action taken, or
decision not to take any action made, by any of the foregoing persons with respect to the business or operations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (as that term is defined in the Plan), despite the fact that any such action or decision may
adversely affect in any way whatsoever Average Annual Shareholders  Equity, Earnings Per Share, Net Income or other financial measures or amounts which are accrued or payable or any of your other rights or interests under this Agreement.
     14.  Governing Law . The validity, construction, interpretation, administration and effect of this Agreement shall be
governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of New York.      15.  Compliance with
Section 409A . The payment of the Award under this Agreement is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated and other official guidance issued thereunder, and this Agreement shall be
interpreted, operated and administered consistent with this intent and the American Express Section 409A Compliance Policy, as amended from time to time, and any successor policy thereto. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement,
to the extent that you are a Specified Employee at the time of your separation from service and any payment is required to be delayed by six months pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, then such payment shall be made, without interest, on the
first day of the seventh month following your separation from service.      16.  FDIA Limitations . Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any payments or benefits to you pursuant to this Agreement, or otherwise, are subject to and conditioned upon their compliance with 12 USC Section 1828(k) and any regulations promulgated, or other
guidance issued, with respect thereto.      17.  Dodd-Frank Clawback . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement
to the contrary, in order to comply with Section 10D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any regulations promulgated, or national securities exchange listing conditions adopted, with respect thereto (collectively, the
 Clawback Requirements ), if the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirements under the securities laws, then you shall
  
         7   

return to the Company, or forfeit if not yet paid, the amount of any Award received during the three-year period preceding the date on which the Company is required to prepare the accounting
restatement, based on the erroneous data, in excess of what would have been paid to you under the accounting restatement as determined by the Committee in accordance with the Clawback Requirements and any policy adopted by the Committee pursuant to
the Clawback Requirements.        

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY     By the Compensation and Benefits     Committee of the Board of Directors:  
      J. LESCHLY     P. CHERNIN     R. MCGINN     E. MILLER     R. WALTER    

By  

Carol V. Schwartz, Secretary   
 
    Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, as
amended, the Company reserves the right to correct nonmaterial clerical errors in, and make subsequent nonmaterial clarifications to, any Award Agreement in the future, without prior notification to participants.    
         8   

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY    
   2007 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        PERFORMANCE GRANT        (ALSO KNOWN AS THE
               INCENTIVE AWARD)        SCHEDULE A

Annual Measure    
      
   Weighting   
      
   Payout Level for Each Metric    

0% of Max.   
      
       % of Max.   
      
   Maximum    

EPS   

ROE   

For purposes of determining the Schedule A Value, if the 20         Return on Equity or the
20         Earnings Per Share are equal to or greater than those levels needed to have some Schedule A Value and less than or equal to the maximum specified levels, and are not represented on the table, the Schedule A
Value shall be determined by straight-line interpolation from the amounts specified in such table immediately less than and greater than the amounts actually attained.       Note: the Award is designed to provide the Committee maximum flexibility in determining an appropriate bonus, while maintaining the ability to deduct the amount of the Award. This table produces the
maximum deductible amount of the Award, and not the amount actually to be paid. The Committee uses negative discretion to reduce such amount as it deems appropriate.    
         9   

</EX-10.38>

<EX-10.39>
 6
 d486442dex1039.htm
 EX-10.39

EX-10.39 

Exhibit 10.39        AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY        2007 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN
       PORTFOLIO GRANT
20          -20                  TO

Name of Employee   

Award Date  

Expiration Date of the Award Period   

$  
     
          Total Target Value   
  We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to the Company s 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (the  Plan ),
the Compensation and Benefits Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors (the  Board ) of American Express Company (the  Company ), made an award of a portfolio grant to you as hereinafter set forth (the
 Award ) under the Plan as of the award date specified above (the  Award Date ). The Award is subject to the Detrimental Conduct Provisions established by the Committee, and as from time to time amended.   
  1.  General . You have been granted the Award subject to the provisions of the Plan and the terms, conditions and restrictions set
forth in this agreement (this  Agreement ). The Total Target Value of the Award consists of the Target Values of four components: the Target Value of the Average Annual EPS Incentive Component (the  Average Annual EPS Target
Value ), which shall equal           % of the Total Target Value; the Target Value of the Average Annual Net Revenue Incentive Component (the  Average Annual Net Revenue Target Value ),
which shall equal           % of the Total Target Value; the Target Value of the Average Annual ROE Incentive Component (the  Average Annual ROE Target Value ), which shall equal
          % of the Total Target Value; and the Target Value of the Relative Total Shareholder Return Incentive Component (the  Relative TSR Target Value ), which shall equal
          % of the Total Target Value. The period beginning                       ,
20           and ending on the expiration date specified above (the  Expiration Date ) is the  Award Period.  The Total Target Value, or any of its components, may be reduced by the
Committee in its sole discretion, which may include but need not be limited to, situations where on the last day of the Award Period you are engaged in Related Employment, as that term is defined in the Plan. The Schedule A Value (as that term is
defined below), if any, of each component will be determined as specified in Paragraph 3.      2.  Requirement of
Employment . Except as otherwise provided in Paragraphs 4 and 6, your rights to the Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units (as those terms are defined below) under Paragraph 5 shall be provisional and shall
be canceled in whole or in part, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion if your continuous employment with the Company and its Affiliates (as that term is defined in the Plan)   

or your Related Employment (as that term is defined in the Plan) (hereinafter collectively referred to as  employment with the American Express companies ), terminates for any reason on
or before the Payment Date set forth in Paragraph 5. Whether and as of what date your employment with the American Express companies shall terminate if you are granted a leave of absence or commence any other break in employment intended by your
employer to be temporary, shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.      3.  Determination of the Schedule A
Values, Initial Value, Final Value, Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or Restricted Stock Units .      (a) Except
as otherwise provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4 and 6, there shall be paid to you in accordance with Paragraph 5, the sum, as may be adjusted by the Committee pursuant to Subparagraph 3(i), of:   
  (i) the Schedule A Value of the Average Annual EPS Incentive Component (the  Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value ) as of the
last day of the Award Period, as provided in Subparagraph 3(b);      (ii) the Schedule A Value of the Average Annual Net Revenue
Incentive Component (the  Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value ) as of the last day of the Award Period, as provided in Subparagraph 3(c);      (iii) the Schedule A Value of the Average Annual ROE Incentive Component (the  Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value ) as of the last day of the Award Period, as provided in Subparagraph 3(d); and
     (iv) the Schedule A Value of the Relative Total Shareholder Return Incentive Component (the  Relative TSR Schedule A
Value ) as of the last day of the Award Period, as provided in Subparagraph 3(e).      (b)  Average
Annual EPS Schedule A Value . Except as otherwise provided in this Paragraph 3, the Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value as of the last day of the Award Period will be equal to (X   b   ) times (Y   b   ), where (X   b   ) equals the Average Annual EPS Incentive Payout Percentage, if any, determined by the Committee in its sole discretion
based on the Average Annual EPS (as that term is defined below) of the Company or of a unit of the Company, as the case may be, pursuant to the formula provided in Schedule A to this Agreement, and where (Y   b   ) is the Average Annual EPS Target Value. However, in no event will the
Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value be greater than the Maximum Average Annual EPS Value, which equals the maximum Average Annual EPS Incentive Payout Percentage set forth in Schedule A to this Agreement, times the Average Annual EPS Target Value.
     (c)  Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value . Except as otherwise provided in this Paragraph
3, the Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value as of the last day of the Award Period will be equal to (X   c   ) times (Y   c   ),
where (X   c   ) equals the Average Annual Net Revenue Incentive
Payout Percentage, if any, determined by the Committee in its sole discretion based on the Average Annual Net Revenue (as that term is defined below) of the Company or of a unit of the Company, as the case may be, pursuant to the formula provided in
Schedule A to this Agreement, and where (Y   c   ) is the Average
Annual Net Revenue Target   
         2   

Value. However, in no event will the Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value be greater than the Maximum Average Annual Net Revenue Value, which equals the maximum Average Annual Net Revenue
Incentive Payout Percentage set forth in Schedule A to this Agreement, times the Average Annual Net Revenue Target Value.      (d)  Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value . Except as otherwise provided in this Paragraph 3, the Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value as of the last day of the Award Period will be equal to
(X   d   ) times (Y   d   ), where (X   d   ) equals the Average Annual ROE Incentive Payout Percentage, if any, determined by the Committee in its sole discretion
based on the Average Annual ROE (as that term is defined below) of the Company or of a unit of the Company, as the case may be, pursuant to the formula provided in Schedule A to this Agreement, and where (Y   d   ) is the Average Annual ROE Target Value. However, in no event will the
Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value be greater than the Maximum Average Annual ROE Value, which equals the maximum Average Annual ROE Incentive Payout Percentage set forth in Schedule A to this Agreement, times the Average Annual ROE Target Value.
     (e)  Relative TSR Schedule A Value . Except as otherwise provided in this Paragraph 3, the Relative
TSR Schedule A Value as of the last day of the Award Period will be equal to (X   e   ) times (Y   e   ),
where (X   e   ) equals the Relative TSR Incentive Payout
Percentage, if any, determined by the Committee in its sole discretion based on a comparison of the Amex TSR and the S P 500 TSR, pursuant to the formula provided in Schedule A to this Agreement, and where (Y   e   ) is the Relative TSR Target Value. However, in no event will the
Relative TSR Schedule A Value be greater than the Maximum TSR Value, which equals the maximum Relative TSR Incentive Payout Percentage set forth in Schedule A to this Agreement, times the Relative TSR Target Value.   
  (f)  Calculation . In the application of Schedule A to this Agreement after the end of the Award Period for purposes of determining
the Schedule A Values pursuant to Subparagraphs 3(b), (c), (d) and (e):      (i) if the Average Annual EPS is less than the level
needed to have some Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value, there shall be no Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value; and if the Average Annual EPS is equal to or greater than the level to have some Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value, but less than or
equal to the maximum level, and the Average Annual EPS actually attained is not represented in the table set forth on Schedule A, then the Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value shall be determined by straight-line interpolation from the amounts
specified in such table immediately less than and greater than the Average Annual EPS actually attained;      (ii) if the Average
Annual Net Revenue is less than the level needed to have some Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value, there shall be no Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value; and if the Average Annual Net Revenue is equal to or greater than the level to
have some Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value, but less than or equal to the maximum level, and the Average Annual Net Revenue actually attained is not represented in the table set forth on Schedule A, then the Average Annual Net Revenue
Schedule A Value shall be determined by straight-line interpolation from the amounts specified in such table immediately less than and greater than the Average Annual Net Revenue actually attained;   
         3   

(iii) if the Average Annual ROE is less than the level needed to have some Average Annual
ROE Schedule A Value, there shall be no Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value; and if the Average Annual ROE is equal to or greater than the level to have some Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value, but less than or equal to the maximum level, and the
Average Annual ROE actually attained is not represented in the table set forth on Schedule A, then the Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value shall be determined by straight-line interpolation from the amounts specified in such table immediately less
than and greater than the Average Annual ROE actually attained; and      (iv) if the difference between the Amex TSR and the
S P 500 TSR is less than the level needed to have some Relative TSR Schedule A Value, there shall be no Relative TSR Schedule A Value; and if the difference between the Amex TSR and the S P 500 TSR is equal to or greater than the level to
have some Relative TSR Schedule A Value, but less than or equal to the maximum level, and the actual difference between the Amex TSR and the S P 500 TSR is not represented in the table set forth on Schedule A, then the Relative TSR Schedule A
Value shall be determined by straight-line interpolation from the amounts specified in such table immediately less than and greater than the actual difference between the Amex TSR and the S P 500 TSR.   
  (g)  Definitions . For purposes of this Award, the following terms shall have the following meanings (which will take into account,
in each case, the expenses and other financial effect for the applicable year(s) of portfolio grants under the Plan except as adjusted by the application of Subparagraphs 3(h) and 3(i)).   
  (i)  Net Revenue  means, for any given year, the total managed revenue net of interest expense of the Company or of a segment
or other part of the Company, as the case may be, for such year, as reported by the Company.      (ii)  Average Annual Net
Revenue  means, for the Award Period, the sum of the Net Revenue for every year during the Award Period, divided by 3.   
  (iii)  Net Income  means, for any given year, the after-tax net income (or loss) of the Company or of a segment or other part
of the Company, as the case may be, for such year, as reported by the Company and as adjusted below. The calculation of Net Income for any given year will be adjusted to exclude:   

reported cumulative effect of accounting changes;          

reported income and losses from discontinued operations; and      

reported extraordinary gains and losses as determined under generally accepted accounting principles.      
  (iv)  Earnings Per Share  means, for any given year, the diluted earnings (or loss) per share of the Company for such year, as
determined by the Company. The calculation of Earnings Per Share, for any given year, will be adjusted in the same fashion as Net Income for such year.   
         4   

(v)  Average Annual EPS  means, for the Award Period, the sum of the Earnings Per
Share for every year during the Award Period, divided by 3.      (vi)  Annual Return on Equity  means, for any given
year, the Net Income for such year divided by the Average Annual Shareholders  Equity for such year.      (vii)
 Average Annual ROE  means, for the Award Period, the sum of the Annual Return on Equity for every year in the Award Period, divided by 3.      (viii)  Average Annual Shareholders  Equity  means, for any given year, the sum of the total shareholders  equity of the Company or of a segment or other part of the Company, as the
case may be, as of the first day of such year and as of the end of each month during such year (each as reported by the Company), divided by 13.      (ix)  Annual ROE  means, for any given year, the Net Income for such year divided by the Average Annual Shareholders  Equity for such year.   
  (x)  Amex Total Shareholder Return  or  Amex TSR  means the compounded annual growth rate, expressed as a percentage
with one decimal point, in the value of a share of common stock in the Company due to stock appreciation and dividends, assuming dividends are reinvested, during the Award Period. For this purpose, the  Beginning Stock Price  shall mean
the average closing sales prices of the Company s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape for the trading days in the month of
                       immediately preceding the beginning of the Award Period; and, the  Ending Stock Price  shall mean the average
closing sales prices of the Company s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape for the trading days in the month of
                       immediately preceding the Expiration Date. Where  Y  is the number of fractional Shares resulting from the
deemed reinvestment of dividends paid during the Award Period, the Amex TSR is calculated as follows:       

(  
     
    Ending Stock Price x (1 + Y)  
  Beginning Stock Price   
     
  )  
     
     1/3     
      
  -1   
    (xi)  S P 500 Total Shareholder Return  or  S P 500 TSR  means the
compounded annual growth rate, expressed as a percentage with one decimal point, in the value of the S P 500 Index during the Award Period, as determined from information publicly reported by Standard   Poors Company (or the entity that
publishes such other index, as the case may be).      (h) To the extent permissible for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), in the event of any change in the corporate capitalization of the Company, such as by reason of any stock split, or a material corporate transaction, such as any merger of the Company into
another corporation, any consolidation of the Company and one or more corporations into another corporation, any separation of the Company (including a spin-off or other distribution of stock or property by the Company), any reorganization of the
Company (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Section 368 of the Code), or any partial or complete liquidation by the Company, other than a normal cash dividend, if the Committee shall determine that such a
change equitably   
         5   

requires an adjustment in the calculation or terms of the Average Annual ROE, the Average Annual Net Revenue, the Average Annual EPS or the Relative Total Shareholder Return Incentive Component
under this Award, on the grounds that any such change would produce an unreasonable value, such equitable adjustment will be made by the Committee. Any such determination by the Committee under this Subparagraph 3(h) shall be final, binding and
conclusive.      (i) As soon as practicable after the last day of the Award Period, the Committee may determine, in its sole
discretion, that the sum of the Schedule A Values (as initially determined in Subparagraphs 3(b), (c), (d) and (e)) may be adjusted downward (that is, to a value of zero), but in no event upward, as follows:   
  (i)  Your Unit s Results . Downward by a percentage (ranging from 0-100%) of such initially determined sum, based on such
criteria as the Committee shall deem appropriate relating to your unit s results, with such resultant sum being the  Initial Value  provided that any such determination by the Committee need not be made in a uniform manner and may be
made selectively among holders of awards of portfolio grants in your unit, whether or not such award holders are similarly situated.      (ii)  Your Individual Results . The Initial Value may be adjusted further downward by a percentage (ranging from 0-100%) of such Initial Value after the application of Subparagraph 3(i)(i), based on
such criteria as the Committee shall deem appropriate relating to your individual results, with such resultant sum being the  Final Value  (except as otherwise provided by Paragraph 8); provided that any such determination by the Committee
need not be made in a uniform manner and may be made selectively among holders of awards of portfolio grants, whether or not such award holders are similarly situated.      (j) In no event may the Committee amend any provision hereof so as to increase or otherwise adjust upward the Schedule A Value of any component.   
  (k) Subject to the limitations set forth in Paragraph 8, the Committee shall determine the Schedule A Values, the Initial Value and the
Final Value pursuant to this Agreement, and such determinations by the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive upon you and all persons claiming under or through you.      (l) The Committee shall determine in its own discretion what portion of the Final Value, if any, shall be payable in cash (the  Cash Value ), and what portion shall be denominated in Restricted
Shares or Restricted Stock Units of the Company (the  RSA  or the  RSU ), in accordance with Paragraph 5 below. The RSA or the RSU shall have the terms substantially as set forth in the form of Restricted Share or Restricted
Stock Unit awards granted generally under the Plan, or its successor, except that the RSA or the RSU shall (A) vest pursuant to a period determined in the Committee s discretion, except that such vesting period shall not be less than one year
from date of grant, and (B) be forfeitable only if your employment with the American Express companies terminates by reason of voluntary resignation or terminates for cause (that is, violation of the Code of Conduct as in effect from time to time)
prior to the applicable vesting dates. The number of restricted shares or restricted stock units of the Company comprising the RSA or the RSU (the  Number of Restricted Shares  or the  Number
  
         6   

of Restricted Stock Units ) shall be determined by dividing such portion of the Final Value so designated by the Committee, if any, by the closing price of the shares on the date that the
Committee approves payout of the Award, and shall be payable in the form of an RSA or an RSU in accordance with Paragraph 5 below.      4.  Death, Disability or Retirement .      (a)  Death or Disability . If,
on or before the Payment Date set forth in Subparagraph 5(b), but during a period when you have been in continuous employment with the American Express companies since the Award Date, you terminate your employment with the American Express companies
by reason of Disability at any time following the Award Date or you die at any time following the Award Date, you will be entitled to a payment equal to the Final Value, which for this purpose shall be calculated by applying the rate at which the
expense for the Award was being accrued for purposes of the Company s annual audited financial statement at the end of the last completed calendar quarter prior to your Disability or death, as applicable. Such amount, if any, shall be payable
within 90 days from the date of your Disability or death (or such later date permitted by Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated and other official guidance issued thereunder), and unless otherwise determined by the
Committee, in cash, common shares of the Company, or other property, or any combination thereof, and you and all others claiming under or through you shall not be entitled to receive any other amounts under this Award. For purposes of this
Agreement,  Disability  means that you (x) are unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last
for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (y) are, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12
months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Company. In making its determination, the Committee shall be guided by the prevailing authorities
applicable under Section 409A of the Code.      (b)  Early Retirement . If, on or before the Payment Date set forth in
Subparagraph 5(b) but during a period when you have been in continuous employment with the American Express companies since the Award Date, you terminate your employment with the American Express companies by reason of Early Retirement, and such
event occurs more than one year after the Award Date, then you generally will be entitled to a payment equal to the Final Value, which shall be determined for this purpose after the last day of the Award Period in the normal course in accordance
with Paragraph 3. For purposes of this Agreement,  Early Retirement  means that at the time of your termination of employment with the American Express companies, you have ten or more years of service with the American Express companies
and you are age 55 or older, but younger than age 62. Such amount, if any, shall be payable in cash or Restricted Stock Units, as described in Subparagraph 3(l) above, or other property, or any combination thereof, after the Award Period in
accordance with Paragraphs 5 and 6, and you and all others claiming under or through you shall not be entitled to receive any other amounts under this Award.      (c)  Full Retirement . If, on or before the Payment Date set forth in Subparagraph 5(b) but during a period when you have been in continuous employment with the
  
         7   

American Express companies since the Award Date, you terminate your employment with the American Express companies by reason of Full Retirement, then you generally will be entitled to a payment
equal to the Final Value, which shall be determined for this purpose after the last day of the Award Period in the normal course in accordance with Paragraph 3. For purposes of this Agreement,  Full Retirement  means that at the time of
your termination of employment with the American Express companies, you have ten or more years of service with the American Express companies and you are age 62 or older. Such amount, if any, shall be payable in cash or Restricted Stock Units, as
described in Subparagraph 3(l) above, or other property, or any combination thereof, after the Award Period in accordance with Paragraphs 5 and 6, and you and all others claiming under or through you shall not be entitled to receive any other
amounts under this Award.      (d)  Grandfathered Executives . If you are both (i) age 60 or older, but younger than age 62,
and (ii) you have ten or more years of service with the American Express companies, both as of December 31, 2013, then notwithstanding the other Subparagraphs of this Paragraph 4, if, on or before the Payment Date set forth in Subparagraph 5(b) but
during a period when you have been in continuous employment with the American Express companies since the Award Date, you terminate your employment with the American Express companies, and such event occurs more than one year after the Award Date,
then you generally will be entitled to a payment equal to the sum of (i) the Final Value multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full months which have elapsed between the first day of the Award Period and the end of the
month in which your termination of employment occurs (not to exceed 36), and the denominator of which is 36, and (ii) 50% of an amount equal to the Final Value less the amount payable pursuant to Subparagraph 4(d)(i). The Final Value for this
purpose shall be determined after the last day of the Award Period in the normal course in accordance with Paragraph 3. Such amount, if any, shall be payable in cash or Restricted Stock Units, as described in Subparagraph 3(l) above, or other
property, or any combination thereof, after the Award Period in accordance with Paragraphs 5 and 6, and you and all others claiming under or through you shall not be entitled to receive any other amounts under this Award.   
  5.  Payment of Award .      (a) As soon as practicable after the last day of the Award Period, or the earlier date your continuous employment with American Express companies terminates by reason of Disability or death in accordance
with Paragraph 4, the Committee shall determine whether the conditions of Paragraph 2, and Paragraph 3 or 4, have been met and, if so, shall ascertain the Final Value, the Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or the Number of Restricted
Stock Units, if any, for the Award Period, in accordance with Paragraph 3 or 4, as the case may be.      (b) If the Committee
determines that there is no Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value, no Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value, no Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value and no Relative TSR Schedule A Value, then this Award will be cancelled. If the Committee
determines that there is some Average Annual EPS Schedule A Value, Average Annual Net Revenue Schedule A Value, Average Annual ROE Schedule A Value or Relative TSR Schedule A Value, however, the Cash Value as determined pursuant to Paragraph 3 shall
become payable to you in cash, and the Number of Restricted Shares or the   
         8   

Number of Restricted Stock Units shall be issued to you in the form of a Restricted Share or Restricted Stock Unit award under the Plan, or its successor (except that the RSA or the RSU shall
vest pursuant to a period determined in the Committee s discretion, and such vesting period shall not be less than one year from date of grant), or other property, or any combination thereof, as soon as practicable following
                      , 20          , but in no event later than 90 days thereafter (the
 Payment Date ).      6.  Other Termination of Employment .   
  (a) If you terminate your employment with the American Express companies and you receive separation payments under a severance plan or
arrangement of the Company, then the Award shall continue to vest and become payable until the earlier of (i) the date that you receive your last separation payment or (ii) the date that you begin a new full-time position outside the Company (the
earlier of such dates, the  Forfeiture Date ). Except as otherwise provided by Paragraph 4, if the Payment Date occurs after the Forfeiture Date, then the Award will be cancelled and forfeited. If the Payment Date occurs before the
Forfeiture Date, then you shall be entitled to receive payment of the Final Value, as determined by the Committee, and you shall be entitled to the Cash Value and the Number of Restricted Shares or the Number of Restricted Stock Units, if any, as
the case may be, which shall be paid to you on the Payment Date pursuant to Paragraph 5.      (b) If, after the last day of the
Award Period and on or before the Payment Date, but during a period when you have been in continuous employment with the American Express companies since the Award Date, your employment with the American Express companies terminates for any reason
other than death, Disability, Early Retirement or Full Retirement as set forth in Paragraph 4, then except as otherwise provided by Subparagraph 6(a), you and all others claiming under or through you shall not be entitled to receive any amounts
under this Award, except as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.      7.  Deferral or Acceleration of
Payment of Award . Any payments to be made under this Award may be deferred or accelerated in such manner as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that any such deferral or acceleration must comply with the applicable requirements of
Section 409A of the Code. As to such a deferral of payment, any amount paid in excess of the amount that was originally payable to you under this Agreement will be based on a reasonable interest rate as determined by the Committee, and as to such an
acceleration of payment to you under this Agreement, any amount so paid will be discounted to reasonably reflect the time value of money as determined by the Committee.      8.  Change in Control .      (a) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to
the contrary (except for the provision dealing with a limitation under Section 280G of the Code, and except as otherwise provided by Paragraph 8(b) below), if there is a Change in Control (as defined below) prior to the payment of the Award, your
Final Value of the Award determined under Section 3(i)(ii) of the Agreement may not be less than the Total Target Value of the Award multiplied by the Average Payout Percentage (as defined below).   
         9   

(b) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary (except for the provision
dealing with a limitation under Section 280G of the Code), if you have not received payment under the Agreement and, within two years after the date of a Change in Control (as defined below), you experience a separation from service (as that term is
defined for purposes of Section 409A of the Code) that would otherwise entitle you to receive the payment of severance benefits under the provisions of the severance plan that is in effect and in which you participate as of the date of such Change
in Control, then:      (i)   you shall immediately be 100% vested in the Award;   
  (ii) the Final Value of the Award will equal the Total Target Value of the Award multiplied by the Average Payout Percentage (as defined
below), but prorated based on (a) the total number of full and partial months of the Award Period which have elapsed between
                      , 20          , and the date of such separation from service (not to exceed
36), divided by (b) the total number of months in the Award Period; and      (iii) such value of the Award shall be paid to you
in cash within five days after the date of such separation from service.      (c)  Average Payout Percentage  means the
average of the payout percentages for you under the two portfolio grant awards that were paid by the Company immediately preceding the date of such Change in Control; provided, however, if you only received one portfolio grant award payment
immediately preceding the date of the Change of Control, then such payout percentage and the payout percentage for your unit for the portfolio grant award that immediately preceded the portfolio grant for which you received payment shall be used to
determine your Average Payout Percentage; and provided further, if you have not received any portfolio grant award payment prior to the date of the Change in Control, then your Average Payout Percentage shall be the average of the payout percentages
for your unit under the two portfolio grant awards that were paid by the Company immediately preceding the date of such Change in Control. For purposes of this Subparagraph 8(c), the payout percentage of the Portfolio Grant 2011-2013, if applicable,
will be based solely on the payout percentage for the final payment under such award and the interim payment after the first year of the its Performance Period shall not be treated as a separate payment for purposes of such determination.
     (d) A  Change in Control  has that meaning as defined in American Express Senior Executive Severance Plan, as
amended from time to time.      (e) The Committee may not amend or delete this Paragraph 8 of this Agreement in a manner that is
detrimental to you, without your written consent.      9.  Tax Withholding and Furnishing of Information . There shall be
withheld from any payment of cash or vesting of restricted shares or restricted stock units under this Award, such amount, if any, as the Company and/or your employer determines is required by law, including, but not limited to, U.S. federal, state,
local or foreign income, employment or other taxes incurred by reason of making of the Award or of such payment. It shall be a condition to the obligation of the Company to make payments under this Award that you (or those claiming
  
         10   

under or through you) promptly provide the Company and/or your employer with all forms, documents or other information reasonably required by the Company and/or your employer in connection with
the Award.      10.  Rights Not Assignable . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, your
rights and interests under the Award and the Plan may not be sold, assigned, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, or made subject to any encumbrance, pledge, hypothecation or charge of any nature, except that you may designate a beneficiary
pursuant to Paragraph 11. If you (or those claiming under or through you) attempt to violate this Paragraph 10, such attempted violation shall be null and void and without effect, and the Company s obligation to make any further payments
to you (or those claiming under or through you) hereunder shall terminate.      11.  Beneficiary Designation . Subject to the
provisions of the Plan, you may, by completing a form acceptable to the Company and returning it to the Corporate Secretary s Office, at 200 Vesey Street, New York, New York 10285, name a beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive any payment to
which you may become entitled under this Agreement in the event of your death. You may change your beneficiary or beneficiaries from time to time by submitting a new form to the Corporate Secretary s Office at the same address. If you do not
designate a beneficiary, or if no designated beneficiary is living on the date any amount becomes payable under this Agreement, such payment will be made to the legal representatives of your estate, which will be deemed to be your designated
beneficiary under this Agreement.      12.  Administration . Any action taken or decision made by the Company, the Board or
the Committee or its delegates arising out of or in connection with the construction, administration, interpretation or effect of the Plan or this Agreement shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion, as the case may be, and shall be final,
conclusive and binding upon you and all persons claiming under or through you. By accepting this Award or other benefit under the Plan, you and each person claiming under or through you shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated acceptance and
ratification of, and consent to, any action taken or decision made under the Plan by the Company, the Board or the Committee or its delegates.      13.  Amendment . This Agreement may be amended or terminated by the Company, the Board or the Committee at any time prior to a Change in Control of the Company. For the avoidance of doubt, you have
no legally binding right to payment under this Award until such payment is made to you.      14.  Change in Control
Payments . This Paragraph shall apply in the event of Change in Control.      (a) In the event that any payment or benefit
received or to be received by you hereunder in connection with a Change in Control or termination of your employment (hereinafter referred to collectively as the  Payments ) will be subject to the excise tax referred to in Section 4999 of
the Code (the  Excise Tax ), then the Payments shall be reduced to the extent necessary so that no portion of the Payments is subject to the Excise Tax but only if (a) the net amount of all Total Payments (as hereinafter defined), as so
reduced (and after subtracting the net amount of federal, state and local income and employment taxes on such   
         11   

reduced Total Payments) is greater than or equal to (b) the net amount of such Total Payments without any such reduction (but after subtracting the net amount of federal, state and local income
and employment taxes on such Total Payments and the amount of Excise Tax to which you would be subject in respect of such unreduced Total Payments; provided, however, that you may elect in writing to have other components of your Total Payments
reduced, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, prior to any reduction in the Payments hereunder.      (b) For
purposes of determining whether the Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax, the amount of such Excise Tax and whether any Payments are to be reduced hereunder: (A) all payments and benefits received or to be received by you in connection with
such Change in Control or the termination of your employment, whether pursuant to the terms of this Plan or any other plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company, any Person whose actions result in such Change in Control, or any Person
affiliated with the Company or such Person (collectively,  Total Payments ) shall be treated as  parachute payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) unless, in the opinion of the accounting firm which was,
immediately prior to the Change in Control, the Company s independent auditor, or if that firm refuses to serve, by another qualified firm, whether or not serving as independent auditors, designated by the Committee (the  Firm ), such
payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, including by reason of Section 280G(2)(A) or Section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code; (B) no portion of the Total Payments the receipt or enjoyment of which you shall have
waived at such time and in such manner as not to constitute a  payment  within the meaning of Section 280G(b) of the Code shall be taken into account; (C) all  excess parachute payments  within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2)
of the Code shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax unless, in the opinion of the Firm, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable compensation for services actually rendered (within the meaning of Section
280G(g)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the  base amount  (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code) allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax; and (D) the value of any non-cash
benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Firm in accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code and regulations or other guidance thereunder. For purposes of determining whether any of your
Payments shall be reduced, you shall be deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest marginal rate of federal income taxation (and state and local income taxes at the highest marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of your residence,
net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes) in the calendar year in which the Payments are made. The Firm will be paid reasonable compensation by the Company for its
services.      (c) As soon as practicable following a Change in Control, but in no event later than 30 days thereafter, if your
Payments are proposed to be reduced, then the Company shall provide to you a written statement setting forth the manner in which your Total Payments were calculated and the basis for such calculations, including, without limitation, any opinions or
other advice the Company has received from the Firm or other advisors or consultants (and any such opinions or advice which are in writing shall be attached to the statement).      15.  Miscellaneous . Neither you nor any person claiming under or through you shall have any right or interest, whether vested or otherwise, in the Plan or the Award, unless and until all of the
terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Agreement shall have been   
         12   

complied with. In addition, neither the adoption of the Plan nor the execution of this Agreement shall in any way affect the rights and powers of any person to dismiss or discharge you at any
time from employment with the American Express companies. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, neither the Company nor any of its Affiliates (as that term is defined in the Plan) nor their respective officers, directors, employees or
agents shall have any liability to you (or those claiming under or through you) under the Plan, this Agreement or otherwise on account of any action taken, or decision not to take any action made, by any of the foregoing persons with respect to the
business or operations of the Company or any of its Affiliates (as that term is defined in the Plan), despite the fact that any such action or decision may adversely affect in any way whatsoever Average Annual EPS, Average Annual Net Revenue,
Average Annual ROE or other financial measures or amounts which are accrued or payable or any of your other rights or interests under this Agreement.      16.  Governing Law . The validity, construction, interpretation, administration and effect of this Agreement shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State
of New York.      17.  Section 409A Compliance . This Agreement and the payment of the Award hereunder are intended to comply
with Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated and other official guidance issued thereunder, and this Agreement shall be administered and interpreted consistent with such intent and the American Express
Section 409A Compliance Policy, as amended from time to time, and any successor policy thereto. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that you are a Specified Employee at the time of your separation from service
and any payment is required to be delayed by six months pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, then such payment shall be made, without interest, on the first day of the seventh month following your separation from service.   
  18.  FDIA Limitations . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any payments or benefits to you
pursuant to this Agreement, or otherwise, are subject to and conditioned upon their compliance with 12 USC Section 1828(k) and any regulations promulgated, or other guidance issued, with respect thereto.   
  19.  Dodd-Frank Clawback . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, in order to comply with Section
10D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any regulations promulgated, or national securities exchange listing conditions adopted, with respect thereto (collectively, the  Clawback Requirements ), if the Company is
required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirements under the securities laws, then you shall return to the Company, or forfeit if not yet paid, the amount of any
Award received during the three-year period preceding the date on which the Company is required to prepare the accounting restatement, based on the erroneous data, in excess of what would have been paid to you under the accounting restatement as
determined by the Committee in accordance with the Clawback Requirements and any policy adopted by the Committee pursuant to the Clawback Requirements.      *        *        *        *        *
  
         13   

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
 
    By the Compensation and Benefits  
  Committee of the Board of Directors:    

J. LESCHLY     P.
CHERNIN     R. MCGINN     E.
MILLER     R. WALTER    

By   

Carol V. Schwartz   
 
    Notwithstanding any contrary provision in the American Express Company 2007 Incentive Compensation Plan, as
amended, the Company reserves the right to correct nonmaterial clerical errors in, and make subsequent nonmaterial clarifications to, any Award Agreement in the future, without prior notification to participants.    
         14   

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY    
   2007 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN        PORTFOLIO GRANT 20          -20              
   SCHEDULE A        

Measure  
      
    Weighting  
      
    Maximum Payout Level   

Threshold (0)  
      
    Target (              )  
      
    Maximum (              )   
 
    Average
Annual     EPS   

Average
Annual     Net Revenue   

Average
Annual     ROE   

Amex
TSR     Relative to S P     500   

For purposes of determining the Schedule A Value, if the Average Performance Period Earnings Per Share, the Average
Annual Net Revenue, the Average Annual ROE or the Amex TSR Relative to S P 500 are equal to or greater than those levels needed to have some Schedule A Value and less than or equal to the maximum specified levels, and are not represented on the
table, the Schedule A Value shall be determined by straight-line interpolation from the amounts specified in such table immediately less than and greater than the amounts actually attained.       Note: the Award is designed to provide the Committee maximum flexibility in determining an appropriate award amount, while maintaining the ability to deduct the amount of the Award. The tables produce
the maximum deductible amount of the Award, and not the amount actually to be paid. The Committee uses negative discretion to reduce such amount as it deems appropriate.    
         15   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.45>
 7
 d486442dex1045.htm
 EX-10.45

EX-10.45 

Exhibit 10.45        AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE TIME SHARING AGREEMENT       This Amendment No. 1
(including the Schedules A and B attached hereto, collectively hereinafter  Amendment No. 1 ), dated as of February 21, 2013, to the Time Sharing Agreement will amend that certain Time Sharing Agreement (including any Schedules
attached thereto, collectively hereinafter  Time Sharing Agreement ), dated as of May 27, 2010, by and between National Express Company, Inc. ( NEC ) and Kenneth I. Chenault ( User ).   
   W I T N E S S E T H :      WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 1 of the Time Sharing Agreement, NEC and User desire to amend the Time Sharing Agreement, as provided herein, to reflect the addition of one (1) 2012 Gulfstream
Aerospace GV-SP (G550) aircraft, bearing manufacturer s serial number 5390 and Federal Aviation Administration Registration Number N552X, to the list of Aircraft on Schedule A.   
  NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto
covenant and agree that, from and as of the date hereof, the Time Sharing Agreement shall be, and hereby is, amended as set forth below.       

1.  
  NEC and User hereby expressly agree that the Schedule A attached hereto amends and replaces the Schedule A attached to the Time Sharing Agreement.

2.  
  All notices and other communications given pursuant to Section 12 of the Time Sharing Agreement under this Amendment No. 1 and/or the Time Sharing Agreement
shall be addressed to the parties as provided on the signature page of this Amendment No. 1.         

3.  
  All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Time Sharing Agreement.     

4.  
  Except as expressly amended by this Amendment No. 1, the Time Sharing Agreement remains in full force and effect, and this Amendment No. 1 shall not be
construed to alter or amend any of the other terms or conditions set forth in the Time Sharing Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms of the Time Sharing Agreement and this Amendment No. 1, the provisions of this Amendment
No. 1 shall prevail.         

5.  
  This Amendment No. 1 may be executed in counterparts, each of which will be deemed to be an original, but both of which together shall constitute one and the same
instrument.         

6.  
  TRUTH-IN-LEASING STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 91.23 OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.     
  THE AIRCRAFT LISTED ON SCHEDULE A ATTACHED HERETO HAVE BEEN MAINTAINED AND INSPECTED UNDER FAR PART 91 DURING THE 12-MONTH
PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT OR, IF THE AIRCRAFT ARE LESS THAN 12 MONTHS OLD, SINCE NEW. NATIONAL   

EXPRESS COMPANY, INC., 1 EXPRESS DR., NEWBURGH, NY 12550, CERTIFIES THAT ALL OF THE AIRCRAFT LISTED ON SCHEDULE A ATTACHED HERETO ARE COMPLIANT WITH APPLICABLE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION
REQUIREMENTS OF FAR PART 91 FOR THE OPERATIONS TO BE CONDUCTED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT. ALL OF THE AIRCRAFT LISTED ON SCHEDULE A ATTACHED HERETO WILL BE MAINTAINED AND INSPECTED UNDER FAR PART 91 FOR OPERATIONS TO BE CONDUCTED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
     DURING THE DURATION OF THIS AGREEMENT, NATIONAL EXPRESS COMPANY, INC., 1 EXPRESS DR., NEWBURGH, NY 12550, IS
CONSIDERED RESPONSIBLE FOR OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF ALL OF THE AIRCRAFT UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.      AN EXPLANATION OF
FACTORS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL AND PERTINENT FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE NEAREST FAA FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE.      THE  INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLIANCE WITH TRUTH-IN-LEASING REQUIREMENTS  ATTACHED HERETO IN SCHEDULE B ARE INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE.   
  THE UNDERSIGNED, AS A DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICER OF NATIONAL EXPRESS COMPANY, INC., 1 EXPRESS DR., NEWBURGH, NY 12550,
CERTIFIES THAT IT IS RESPONSIBLE FOR OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF ALL OF THE AIRCRAFT LISTED ON SCHEDULE A ATTACHED HERETO AND THAT IT UNDERSTANDS ITS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.   
  [SIGNATURES ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE]   
         Page
   2  of  5      

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 1 to be duly
executed on the day and year first above written. The persons signing below warrant their authority to sign.       

NATIONAL EXPRESS COMPANY, INC.   

KENNETH I. CHENAULT    

By:  
     
  /s/ Jeffrey W. Lee  

/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault   
 
  Name:  
     
  Jeffrey W. Lee  

Title:  
     
  Vice President  

A legible copy of this Amendment
No. 1 shall be kept in the Aircraft for all operations conducted hereunder.    
         Page
   3  of  5      

SCHEDULE A       One (1) Gulfstream Aerospace G-V aircraft bearing Federal Aviation Administration Registration Number [redacted] and Manufacturer s Serial Number [redacted];   
  One (1) Gulfstream Aerospace GIV-X (G450) aircraft bearing Federal Aviation Administration Registration Number [redacted] and Manufacturer s
Serial Number [redacted];      One (1) Gulfstream Aerospace G-IV aircraft bearing Federal Aviation Administration Registration Number
[redacted] and Manufacturer s Serial Number [redacted];      One (1) Sikorsky S-76C aircraft bearing Federal Aviation Administration
Registration Number [redacted] and Manufacturer s Serial Number [redacted]; and      One (1) Gulfstream Aerospace GV-SP (G550) aircraft
bearing Federal Aviation Administration Registration Number [redacted] and Manufacturer s Serial Number [redacted].   
         Page
   4  of  5      

SCHEDULE B        INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLIANCE        WITH  TRUTH-IN-LEASING 
REQUIREMENTS        

1.  
  Mail a copy of the lease to the following address via certified mail, return receipt requested, immediately upon execution of the lease (14 C.F.R. 91.23 requires that
the copy be sent within twenty-four hours after it is signed):        Federal Aviation Administration   
  Aircraft Registration Branch      ATTN: Technical Section      P.O. Box 25724   
  Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125       

2.  
  Telephone or fax the nearest Flight Standards District Office at least forty-eight hours prior to the first flight under this lease.     

3.  
  Carry a copy of the lease in the aircraft at all times.     
         Page
   5  of  5      

</EX-10.45>

<EX-12>
 8
 d486442dex12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12       AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY      COMPUTATION IN SUPPORT OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED
CHARGES       (Dollars in Millions)        

(a)  
  Included in interest expense is interest expense related to the Cardmember lending activities, international banking operations, and charge card and other activities in
the Consolidated Statements of Income. Interest expense does not include interest on liabilities recorded under GAAP governing accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. The Company s policy is to classify such interest in income tax provision
in the Consolidated Statements of Income.     

(b)  
  For purposes of the  earnings  computation,  other adjustments  include adding the amortization of capitalized interest, the net loss of affiliates
accounted for under the equity method whose debt is not guaranteed by the Company, the noncontrolling interest in the earnings of majority-owned subsidiaries with fixed charges, and the interest component of rental expense, and subtracting
undistributed net income of affiliates accounted for under the equity method.     

(c)  
  For purposes of the  fixed charges  computation,  other adjustments  include capitalized interest costs and the interest component of rental
expense.     

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 9
 d486442dex13.htm
 EX-13

EX-13 

Table of Contents  

2012 FINANCIAL RESULTS        

16  

FINANCIAL REVIEW     

57  

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING     

58  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

59  

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

60  

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

65  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

114  

CONSOLIDATED FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

115  

COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR TOTAL RETURN TO SHAREHOLDERS     

Table of Contents  

   AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW                FINANCIAL REVIEW       The financial section of American
Express Company s (the Company) Annual Report consists of this Financial Review, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following discussion is designed to provide perspective and
understanding regarding the Company s consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Certain key terms are defined in the Glossary of Selected Terminology, which begins on page 52.   
  This Financial Review and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements exclude discontinued operations unless otherwise noted.
      EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW       BUSINESS INTRODUCTION      American Express is a global services company that provides customers
with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The Company s principal products and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to consumers and
businesses around the world. The Company s range of products and services include:       

charge and credit card products;          

expense management products and services;          

consumer and business travel services;          

stored-value products such as Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products;      

network services;          

merchant acquisition and processing, servicing and settlement, and point-of-sale, marketing and information products and services for merchants; and

fee services, including fraud prevention services and the design of customized customer loyalty and rewards programs.      
  The Company s products and services are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers, small businesses, mid-sized companies and
large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels, including direct mail, online applications, in-house and third-party sales forces and direct response advertising.   
  The Company competes in the global payments industry with charge, credit and debit card networks, issuers and acquirers, as well as
evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products. As the payments industry continues to evolve, the Company is facing increasing competition from non-traditional players, such as online networks, telecom providers and
software-as-a-service providers, that leverage new technologies and customers  existing charge and credit card accounts and bank relationships to create payment or other fee-based solutions. The Company is transforming its existing businesses
and creating new products and services for the digital marketplace as it increases its share of online spend, enhances customers  digital experiences and develops platforms for online and mobile commerce.   
  The Company s products and services generate the following types of revenue for the Company:   

Discount revenue, which is the Company s largest revenue source, represents fees generally charged to merchants when cardmembers use their cards
to purchase goods and services at merchants on the Company s network;          

Net card fees, which represent revenue earned for annual card membership fees;      

Travel commissions and fees, which are earned by charging a transaction or management fee for airline or other travel-related transactions;

Other commissions and fees, which are earned on foreign exchange conversions and card-related fees and assessments;      

Other revenue, which represents insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other insurance programs, revenues arising from contracts with
partners of our Global Network Services (GNS) business (including royalties and signing fees), publishing revenues and other miscellaneous revenue and fees; and      

Interest on loans, which principally represents interest income earned on outstanding balances.      
  In addition to funding and operating costs associated with these types of revenue, other major expense categories are related to marketing and reward
programs that add new cardmembers and promote cardmember loyalty and spending, and provisions for cardmember credit and fraud losses.   
  FINANCIAL TARGETS      The Company seeks to
achieve three financial targets, on average and over time:       

Revenues net of interest expense growth of at least 8 percent;      

Earnings per share (EPS) growth of 12 to 15 percent; and      

Return on average equity (ROE) of 25 percent or more.         If the Company achieves its EPS and ROE targets, it will seek to return on average and over time approximately 50 percent of the capital it generates to shareholders as dividends or through the
repurchases of common stock, which may be subject to certain regulatory restrictions as described herein.      FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
AND NON-GAAP MEASURES      Certain of the statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Refer to the  Forward-Looking Statements  section below. In addition, certain information included within this Annual Report constitute non-GAAP financial measures. The Company s calculations
of non-GAAP   
         16   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
financial measures may differ from the calculations of similarly titled measures by other companies.      BANK HOLDING COMPANY      The Company is a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company
Act of 1956 and the Federal Reserve Board (Federal Reserve) is the Company s primary federal regulator. As such, the Company is subject to the Federal Reserve s regulations, policies and minimum capital standards.   
  CURRENT ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT/OUTLOOK      The
Company s results for 2012 continued to reflect strong spending growth and credit performance in both the United States and internationally. The rate of growth was, however, slower than in the prior year, reflecting in part the impact of a
challenging global economic environment. The Company also saw its average loans continue to grow modestly year over year, leading to a 6 percent growth in net interest income while lending loss rates are near all-time lows.   
  The positive impacts of strong billings and loan growth were offset by lower lending reserve releases this year as compared to the prior
year, and three charges taken in the fourth quarter of 2012, related to restructuring of $400 million, Membership Rewards estimation process enhancements of $342 million and cardmember reimbursements of $153 million, in addition to amounts incurred
in prior quarters during the year. In 2010 and 2011 the Company saw operating expenses increase as a result of its strategy to invest in the business in light of the favorable impacts of lending reserve releases and the settlement proceeds from Visa
and MasterCard. In 2012, the Company s objective was to grow operating expenses at a slower pace than revenue growth. Adjusting for the fourth quarter restructuring charge, as well as the Visa and MasterCard settlement payments recognized in
2011, the Company was successful in achieving this objective.      The Company believes the restructuring charge taken in the
fourth quarter will help to make its cost structure leaner and more efficient. The Company s aim is to grow operating expenses at an annual rate of less than 3 percent in both 2013 and 2014, with the 2012 operating expenses, excluding the
restructuring charge, as the base. The Company will seek to invest in growth opportunities in the United States and internationally and will aim to keep marketing and promotion expenses at approximately 9 percent of revenues.   
  The Company recognized a $342 million charge in the fourth quarter reflecting enhancements to the process that estimates redemptions of
Membership Rewards points by U.S. cardmembers. In particular, the changes increased the global Ultimate Redemption Rate (URR) by approximately 100 basis points, resulting in a URR of 94 percent, representing the estimate of the amount of earned
points that will ultimately be redeemed by cardmembers.      The regulatory environment continues to evolve and has heightened the
focus that all financial companies, including the Company, must have on their controls and processes. Additional regulation, increased compliance efforts and enhanced regulatory enforcement had an impact on the Company. The review of products and
practices will be a continuing focus of regulators, as well as by the Company.      Competition remains extremely intense across
the Company s businesses. In addition, the global economic environment remains uneven. While the Company s business is diversified, including the corporate card business, a large international business and GNS partners around the world,
any impact of potential U.S. income tax law changes and continued budget and debt ceiling discussions in Washington remains uncertain. In addition, the current instability in Europe could further adversely affect global economic conditions,
including continued pressure on consumer and corporate confidence and spending, and cause disruptions of the debt, equity and foreign exchange markets. Europe accounted for approximately 11 percent of the Company s total billed business for the
year ended December 31, 2012.      RESTRUCTURING INITIATIVES      The Company recently committed to undertake a companywide restructuring plan designed to contain future operating expenses, adapt parts of the business as more customers transact online or through mobile
channels, and provide the resources for additional growth initiatives in the United States and internationally. The charges relating to the plan total approximately $400 million pre-tax (approximately $287 million after-tax), which the Company
recognized in the fourth quarter of 2012. The total charges include approximately $370 million pre-tax (approximately $265 million after-tax) in employee severance obligations and other employee-related costs.   
  A major portion of the restructuring plan involves reengineering the Company s model in its Global Business Travel group as the
Company continues the shift toward online channels and automated servicing tools. It will also include streamlining its staff groups to concentrate more resources in high-growth areas, optimizing the Company s client management and eliminating
duplicate efforts, while continuing to maintain the right focus and resources on risk and control activities. The restructuring is expected to result in the elimination of approximately 5,400 jobs in the aggregate. Those reductions are expected to
be partly offset by jobs the Company anticipates to add during the year. Overall staffing levels by year-end 2013 are expected to be 4 to 6 percent less than the current total of 63,500. The restructuring plan is expected to be substantially
completed by the end of 2013. The Company estimates that substantially all of the costs will result in future cash expenditures.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES       Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company s significant accounting policies referenced, as applicable, to other financial statement footnotes. Certain of
the Company s accounting policies that require significant management assumptions and judgments are set forth below.      RESERVES FOR
CARDMEMBER LOSSES      Reserves for cardmember losses represent management s best estimate of the probable losses inherent in the
Company s outstanding portfolio of cardmember loans and receivables, as of the balance sheet date.      In estimating these
losses management uses statistical models that take into account several factors, including loss migration rates, historical losses and recoveries, portfolio specific risk indicators, current risk management initiatives and concentration of credit
risk. Management also considers other external environmental factors in establishing reserves for cardmember losses.      The
process of estimating these reserves requires a high degree of judgment. To the extent historical credit experience updated for external environmental trends is not indicative of future performance, actual losses could differ significantly from
management s judgments and expectations, resulting in either higher or lower future provisions for cardmember losses.      As
of December 31, 2012, an increase (decrease) in write-offs equivalent to 20 basis points of cardmember loans and receivables balances at such date would increase (decrease) the provision for cardmember losses by approximately $215 million. This
sensitivity analysis is provided as a hypothetical scenario to assess the sensitivity of the provision for cardmember losses. It does not represent management s expectations for write-offs in the future, nor does it include how other portfolio
factors such as loss migration rates or recoveries, or the amount of outstanding balances, may impact the level of reserves for cardmember losses and the corresponding impact on the provision for cardmember losses.   
  LIABILITY FOR MEMBERSHIP REWARDS EXPENSE   
  The Membership Rewards program is the largest card-based rewards program in the industry. Eligible cardmembers can earn points for purchases charged on
most of the Company s card products. Certain types of purchases allow cardmembers to also earn bonus points. Membership Rewards points are redeemable for a broad variety of rewards including travel, entertainment, retail certificates and
merchandise. Points typically do not expire and there is no limit on the number of points a cardmember may earn.      The Company
records a Membership Rewards liability that represents the estimated cost of points earned that are expected to be redeemed. The liability reflects management s judgment regarding ultimate redemptions and associated redemption costs.
     Management uses statistical and actuarial models to estimate ultimate redemption rates of points earned to date by current
cardmembers based on redemption trends of current enrollees, card product type, enrollment tenure, card spend levels and credit attributes. A weighted-average cost per point redeemed during the previous twelve months, adjusted as appropriate for
recent changes in redemption costs, including mix of rewards redeemed, is used to estimate redemption costs. Management periodically evaluates its liability estimation process and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per
point redeemed, partner contract changes and other factors.      The liability for the estimated cost of earned points expected to
be redeemed is impacted over time by enrollment levels, points earned and redeemed, and the weighted-average cost per point, which is influenced by redemption choices made by cardmembers, reward offerings by partners and other Membership Rewards
program changes.      Changes in the URR and weighted-average cost per point have the effect of either increasing or decreasing the
liability through the current period marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expense by an amount estimated to cover the cost of all points previously earned but not yet redeemed by current enrollees as of the end of the reporting
period. As of December 31, 2012, an increase in the estimated URR of current enrollees of 100 basis points would increase the balance sheet liability and corresponding expense for the cost of Membership Rewards by approximately $270 million.
Similarly, an increase in the weighted-average cost (WAC) per point of 1 basis point would increase the balance sheet liability and corresponding expense for the cost of Membership Rewards by approximately $80 million.   
  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT      The Company holds
investment securities and derivative instruments that are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Management makes assumptions and judgments when estimating the fair values of these financial instruments.   
  In accordance with fair value measurement and disclosure guidance, the objective of a fair value measurement is to determine the price
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date based on the principal or, in the absence of a principal, most advantageous market for the specific
asset or liability. The disclosure guidance establishes a three-level hierarchy of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to the measurement of fair value based on unadjusted
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1), followed by the measurement of fair value based on pricing models with significant observable inputs (Level 2), with the lowest priority given to the measurement of fair
value based on pricing models with significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). The Company does not have any Level 3 assets measured on a recurring basis. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    Investment Securities       The Company s investment securities are mostly composed of fixed-income securities issued by states and municipalities as well as the U.S. Government and Agencies.   
  The fair market values for the Company s investment securities, including investments comprising defined benefit pension plan assets,
are obtained primarily from pricing services engaged by the Company. For each security, the Company receives one price from a pricing service. The fair values provided by the pricing services are estimated using pricing models, where the inputs to
those models are based on observable market inputs or recent trades of similar securities. The pricing services did not apply any adjustments to the pricing models used as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. In addition, the Company did not apply
any adjustments to prices received from the pricing services. The Company reaffirms its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing services at least annually. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices provided by its
pricing services for reasonableness by comparing the prices from the respective pricing services to valuations obtained from different pricing sources as well as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold securities at least quarterly.
     In the measurement of fair value for the Company s investment securities, even though the underlying inputs used in the
pricing models are directly observable from active markets or recent trades of similar securities in inactive markets, the pricing models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and therefore differing judgments in how the underlying inputs are
modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.       Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investment Securities    
  Realized losses are recognized when management determines that a decline in the fair value of investment securities is other-than-temporary. Such
determination requires judgment regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investment securities at least quarterly, and more often as market conditions may require, to identify investment securities that have
indications of other-than-temporary impairments. The Company considers several factors when evaluating debt securities for other-than-temporary impairment, including the determination of the extent to which a decline in the fair value of a security
is due to increased default risk for the specific issuer or market interest rate risk. With respect to market interest rate risk, the Company assesses whether it has the intent to sell the investment securities and whether it is more likely than not
that the Company will be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of any unrealized losses.      In determining
whether any of the Company s investment securities are other-than-temporarily impaired, a change in facts and circumstances could lead to a change in management judgment about the Company s view on collectibility and credit quality of the
issuer, or the impact of market interest rates on the investment securities. Any such changes could result in the Company recognizing an other-than-temporary impairment loss through earnings.       Derivative Instruments       The Company s primary derivative instruments are interest rate
swaps, foreign currency forward agreements, cross-currency swaps and a total return swap relating to a foreign equity investment.      The fair value of the Company s derivative instruments is estimated by using either a third-party valuation service that uses proprietary pricing models, or by internal pricing models, where the
inputs to those models are readily observable from actively quoted markets. The Company reaffirms its understanding of the valuation techniques used by a third-party valuation service at least annually.   
  To mitigate credit risk arising from the Company s derivative instruments, counterparties are required to be pre-approved and rated
as investment grade. In addition, the Company manages certain counterparty credit risks by exchanging cash and noncash collateral under executed credit support agreements. The noncash collateral does not reduce the derivative balance reflected in
the other assets line but effectively reduces risk exposure as it is available in the event of counterparty default. Based on the assessment of credit risk of the Company s derivative counterparties, the Company does not have derivative
positions that warrant credit valuation adjustments.      In the measurement of fair value for the Company s derivative
instruments, although the underlying inputs used in the pricing models are readily observable from actively quoted markets, the pricing models do entail a certain amount of subjectivity and, therefore, differing judgments in how the underlying
inputs are modeled could result in different estimates of fair value.      GOODWILL RECOVERABILITY   
  Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In accordance
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually or when events or circumstances arise, such as adverse changes in the business climate, that would
more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value.      The Company assigns goodwill to its
reporting units for the purpose of impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as either an operating segment or a business that is one level below an operating segment for which discrete financial information is regularly reviewed by the
operating segment manager.      The goodwill impairment test utilizes a two-step approach. The first step in the impairment test
identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value   
         19   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure any impairment loss.   
  The Company uses a combination of discounted cash flow methods and market multiples valuation methods in estimating the fair value of its
reporting units.      When using discounted cash flow models, the Company estimates future cash flows using the reporting
unit s internal five-year forecast and a terminal value calculated using a growth rate that management believes is appropriate in light of current and expected future economic conditions. The Company then applies a discount rate to discount
these future cash flows to arrive at a net present value, which represents the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The discount rate applied approximates the Company s expected cost of equity financing, determined using a capital asset
pricing model.      The fair value of each of the Company s reporting units exceeds the carrying value; accordingly, the
Company has concluded goodwill is not impaired as of December 31, 2012. The Company could be exposed to increased risk of goodwill impairment if future operating results or macroeconomic conditions differ significantly from management s
current assumptions.      INCOME TAXES      The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the
manner in which they apply to the taxpayer s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, the Company must make judgments about the application of inherently complex tax laws.   
   Unrecognized Tax Benefits       The Company
establishes a liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which are the differences between a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the benefit recognized in the financial statements.   
  In establishing a liability for an unrecognized tax benefit, assumptions may be made in determining whether, and the extent to
which, a tax position should be sustained. A tax position is recognized only when it is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authority based on its technical merits. The amount of tax benefit
recognized is the largest benefit that management believes is more likely than not to be realized on ultimate settlement. As new information becomes available, the Company evaluates its tax positions, and adjusts its unrecognized tax benefits,
as appropriate.      Tax benefits ultimately realized can differ from amounts previously recognized due to uncertainties, with any
such differences generally impacting the provision for income tax.       Deferred Tax Asset Realization    
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using
the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.      Since deferred
taxes measure the future tax effects of items recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain estimates and assumptions are required to determine whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the benefit of a deferred
tax asset will not be realized. In making this assessment, management analyzes and estimates the impact of future taxable income, reversing temporary differences and available tax planning strategies. These assessments are performed quarterly,
taking into account any new information.      Changes in facts or circumstances can lead to changes in the ultimate realization of
deferred tax assets due to uncertainties.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    
  Refer to the  Glossary of Selected Terminology  for the definitions of certain key terms and related information appearing in the tables within
this section.      Beginning the first quarter of 2012, the Company revised the income statement reporting of annual membership
card fees on lending products, increasing net card fees and reducing interest on loans. Amounts presented in prior periods for this item and certain other amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. This change has
no impact on total revenues net of interest expense in the consolidated statements of income or the net interest yield on cardmember loans statistic, a non-GAAP measure, as reported in the Company s selected statistical tables.   
  SUMMARY OF THE COMPANY S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE       

(a)  
  Earnings per common share from continuing operations   diluted and Earnings per common share   diluted were both reduced by the impact of earnings allocated
to participating share awards and other items of $49 million, $58 million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.     

(c)  
  Return on average tangible common equity, a non-GAAP measure, is computed in the same manner as ROE except the computation of average tangible common equity, a non-GAAP
measure, excludes from average total shareholders  equity, average goodwill and other intangibles of $4.2 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company believes return on average
tangible common equity is a useful measure of the profitability of its business.        SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION

(a)  
  Average basic cardmember spending and average fee per card are computed from proprietary card activities only. Average fee per card is computed based on net card fees,
including the amortization of deferred direct acquisition costs divided by average worldwide proprietary cards-in-force. The adjusted average fee per card, which is a non-GAAP measure, is computed in the same manner, but excludes amortization of
deferred direct acquisition costs. The amount of amortization excluded was $257 million, $219 million and $207 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company presents adjusted average fee per card
because the Company believes this metric presents a useful indicator of card fee pricing across a range of its proprietary card products.     
         21   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY    
  SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION       

#  
  denotes a variance greater than 100 percent.     

(a)  
  Provisions for principal (resulting from authorized transactions) and fee reserve components.     

(b)  
  Provisions for unauthorized transactions.     

(c)  
  Consists of principal (resulting from authorized transactions) interest and/or fees, less recoveries.     

(e)  
  The Company presents a net write-off rate based on principal losses only (i.e., excluding interest and/or fees) to be consistent with industry convention. In addition,
because the Company s practice is to include uncollectible interest and/or fees as part of its total provision for losses, a net write-off rate including principal, interest and/or fees is also presented.     

(f)  
  Upon the adoption of accounting standards related to transfers of financial assets and consolidation of VIEs, which resulted in the consolidation of the American
Express Credit Account Master Trust beginning January 1, 2010, $29.0 billion of additional cardmember loans along with a $2.5 billion loan loss reserve were recorded on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(g)  
  Refer to the following table for the calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans, a non-GAAP measure, net interest income divided by average loans, a GAAP
measure, and the Company s rationale for presenting net interest yield on cardmember loans.     
         22   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   Calculation of Net Interest Yield on Cardmember Loans   

(a)  
  Net interest yield on cardmember loans, adjusted net interest income, and adjusted average loans are non-GAAP measures. The Company believes adjusted net interest
income and adjusted average loans are useful to investors because they are components of net interest yield on cardmember loans, which provides a measure of profitability of the Company s cardmember loan portfolio.     
  CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012      The Company s consolidated income from continuing operations decreased $417 million or 9 percent, and diluted EPS from continuing operations decreased by $0.20, in 2012 as compared to the prior year.
Consolidated income from continuing operations increased $842 million or 21 percent, and diluted EPS from continuing operations increased by $0.74, in 2011 as compared to the prior year.   
  Consolidated net income for 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $4.5 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. Net income included income
from discontinued operations of nil, $36 million and nil for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      The Company s total
revenues net of interest expense, total expenses and total provisions for losses increased approximately 5 percent, 6 percent and 79 percent, respectively, in 2012 as compared to the prior year.   
  The Company s total revenues net of interest expense and total expenses increased by approximately 9 percent and 13 percent,
respectively, while total provisions for losses decreased by 50 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year.      Results from continuing
operations for 2012 included:       

$461 million ($328 million after-tax) of net charges for costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives, including a $400 million ($287
million after-tax) restructuring charge in the fourth quarter;          

A $342 million ($212 million after-tax) expense reflecting enhancements to the process that estimates future redemptions of Membership Rewards points
by U.S. cardmembers;          

A $153 million ($95 million after-tax) charge related to cardmember reimbursements in the fourth quarter, in addition to amounts incurred in prior
quarters during the year; and          

A $146 million tax benefit related to the realization of certain foreign tax credits.      
  Results from continuing operations for 2011 included:       

A $188 million ($117 million after-tax) expense reflecting enhancements to the process that estimates future redemptions of Membership Rewards points
by U.S. cardmembers;          

$153 million ($106 million after-tax) of net charges for costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives; and

Tax benefits of $102 million and $77 million related to the favorable resolution of certain prior years  tax items and the realization of certain
foreign tax credits, respectively.         Results from continuing operations for 2010 included:   

$127 million ($83 million after-tax) of net charges for costs related to the Company s reengineering initiatives.      
  Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense   
  Consolidated total revenues net of interest expense increased $1.6 billion or 5 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, reflecting increases of 7
percent in Global Network   Merchant Services (GNMS), 6 percent in U.S. Card Services (USCS), 3 percent in Global Commercial Services (GCS) and 1 percent in International Card Services (ICS). The increase in total revenues net of interest
expense primarily reflects higher discount revenues, higher other revenues and higher net interest income. Consolidated total revenues net of interest expense increased $2.4 billion or 9 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily
reflecting higher discount revenues, increased other commissions and fees, greater travel commissions and fees, higher net card fees, and higher other revenues, partially offset by lower net interest income.   
  Discount revenue increased $1.0 billion or 6 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to an 8 percent increase in
worldwide billed business volumes, partially offset by a decline in the average discount rate and higher contra-revenue   
         23   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
items, including cash rebate rewards and corporate client incentives. Discount revenue increased $1.9 billion or 12 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a 15 percent
increase in worldwide billed business, partially offset by a slightly lower average discount rate. The lower revenue growth versus total billed business growth reflects the relatively faster growth in billed business related to GNS, where discount
revenue is shared with card-issuing partners, and higher contra-revenue items, including cash rewards, corporate incentive payments and partner payments. The 15 percent increase in worldwide billed business in 2011 reflected an increase in
proprietary billed business of 13 percent. The average discount rate was 2.52 percent and 2.54 percent for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Over time, certain pricing initiatives, changes in the mix of spending by location and industry, an increase in
the amount of prepaid products and volume-related pricing discounts and strategic investments will likely result in further erosion of the average discount rate.      U.S. billed business and billed business outside the United States increased 9 percent and 7 percent, respectively, in 2012 as compared to the prior year, reflecting increases in average spending per
proprietary basic card and basic cards-in-force.          The table below
summarizes selected statistics for billed business and average spend:       

(a)  
  The foreign currency adjusted information assumes a constant exchange rate between the periods being compared for purposes of currency translation into U.S. dollars
(i.e., assumes the foreign exchange rates used to determine results for the current year apply to the corresponding year-earlier period against which such results are being compared). The Company believes the presentation of information on a foreign
currency adjusted basis is helpful to investors by making it easier to compare the Company s performance in one period to that of another period without the variability caused by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.

(b)  
  Captions in the table above not designated as  proprietary  or  GNS  include both proprietary and GNS data.     

(c)  
  Included in the GNMS segment.     

(d)  
  Included in the USCS segment.     

(e)  
  Included in the GCS segment.     

(f)  
  Included in the ICS segment.     
         24   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   Travel commissions and fees decreased $31 million or 2 percent in 2012 as compared to
the prior year, primarily due to a 1 percent decline in worldwide travel sales. Business travel sales declined 4 percent, while U.S. consumer travel sales increased 12 percent. Travel commissions and fees increased $198 million or 11 percent in 2011
as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a 13 percent increase in worldwide travel sales.      Other commissions and fees
increased $48 million or 2 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, driven primarily by higher fee revenues from the Loyalty Partner business. Assuming no changes in foreign exchange rates, other commissions and fees increased 5 percent in
2012 as compared to the prior year.   1    Other commissions and
fees increased $238 million or 12 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily driven by fee revenues from the Loyalty Partner business.      Other revenues increased $288 million or 13 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting higher gains on the sale of investment securities, higher GNS partner royalty revenues, and
the favorable effects of revised estimates in the liability for uncashed Travelers Cheques in international markets. Other revenues increased $237 million or 12 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting higher royalties
from GNS partners, a contractual payment from a GNS partner and greater merchant-related fee revenues.      Interest income
increased $158 million or 2 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. Interest on loans increased $239 million or 4 percent, primarily reflecting higher average cardmember loans. Interest and dividends on investment securities decreased $81
million or 25 percent, primarily reflecting decreased levels of investment securities. Interest on deposits with banks and other remained flat year over year. Interest income decreased $377 million or 5 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year.
Interest on loans decreased $292 million or 4 percent, driven by a lower net yield on cardmember loans, partially offset by a slight increase in average cardmember loans. Interest and dividends on investment securities decreased $116 million or 26
percent, primarily reflecting decreased levels of investment securities. Interest on deposits with banks and other increased $31 million or 47 percent, primarily due to higher average deposit balances.   
  Interest expense decreased $94 million or 4 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. Interest on deposits decreased $48 million or 9
percent, primarily due to a lower cost of funds, partially offset by an increase in average customer deposit balances. Interest on long-term debt and other decreased $46 million or 3 percent, reflecting a lower average long-term debt balance.
Interest expense decreased $103 million or 4 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year. Interest on deposits       

1    
  The foreign currency adjusted information, a non-GAAP measure, assumes a constant exchange rate between the periods being compared for purposes of currency translation
into U.S. dollars (i.e., assumes the foreign exchange rates used to determine results for the current year apply to the corresponding year period against which such results are being compared). The Company believes the presentation of information on
a foreign currency adjusted basis is helpful to investors by making it easier to compare the Company s performance in one period to that of another period without the variability caused by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.
       
decreased $18 million or 3 percent, primarily due to a lower cost of funds, partially offset by an increase in average customer deposit balances. Interest on long-term debt and other decreased
$85 million or 5 percent, reflecting a lower average long-term debt balance, partially offset by a higher cost of funds.      Provisions for
Losses      Provisions for losses increased $878 million or 79 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. Charge card provisions for losses
decreased $28 million or 4 percent, primarily due to a net reserve release in 2012 compared to a reserve build in 2011. Cardmember loans provisions for losses increased $896 million or over 100 percent, primarily reflecting a smaller reserve release
in 2012 than in 2011 due to the slowing pace of improved credit conditions. Other provisions for losses increased $10 million or 11 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year.   
  Provisions for losses decreased $1.1 billion or 50 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year. Charge card provisions for losses
increased $175 million or 29 percent, primarily driven by higher average cardmember receivables, higher net write-offs and a release of reserves in the prior year due to improved credit performance. Cardmember loans provisions for losses decreased
$1.3 billion or 83 percent, primarily reflecting lower net write-offs and a lower cardmember loan reserve requirement in 2011 as compared to the prior year. Other provisions for losses increased $4 million or 5 percent in 2011 as compared to the
prior year.      Expenses   
  Consolidated expenses increased $1.2 billion or 6 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. The increase reflects higher other expenses, higher
salaries and employee benefits costs, higher occupancy and equipment expenses and higher cardmember services expenses, partially offset by lower marketing and promotion expenses. Consolidated expenses increased $2.5 billion or 13 percent in 2011 as
compared to the prior year. The increase reflected higher cardmember rewards expenses, salaries and employee benefits costs, other expenses, cardmember services expenses, professional services expenses and occupancy and equipment expenses, partially
offset by lower marketing and promotion expenses. Consolidated expenses in 2012, 2011 and 2010 also included $461 million, $153 million and $127 million, respectively, of reengineering costs, of which $403 million, $119 million and $96 million,
respectively, represent restructuring charges.      Marketing and promotion expenses decreased $106 million or 4 percent in 2012 as
compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting lower loyalty and brand spending. Marketing and promotion expenses decreased $151 million or 5 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, due to lower product media and brand spending. Marketing
and promotion spending represented 9.2 percent of total revenues in 2012 as compared to 10.0 percent and 11.4 percent of total revenues in 2011 and 2010, respectively.      Cardmember rewards expenses increased $64 million or 1 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year due to an increase   
         25   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
in co-brand rewards expense of $148 million partially offset by a decrease in Membership Rewards expense of $84 million.     For 2012, co-brand rewards expenses increased $148 million primarily related to higher spending volumes. Membership Rewards expenses decreased $84 million as compared to the prior year as a result of a
$353 million reduction in expenses related to a slower average URR growth rate (including the effects of enhancements to the U.S. URR estimation process of $342 million in 2012 and $188 million in 2011) and a shift in the redemption mix that drove a
favorable change in the WAC assumption, offset by higher expenses of $269 million relating to an increase in new points earned.  
  For 2011, Membership Rewards expenses increased $920 million as compared to the prior year as a result of higher expenses of $558 million
related to an increase in new points earned, a $362 million increase in expenses related to a higher average URR growth rate (including the effects of enhancements to the U.S. URR estimation process of $188 million) in addition to a shift in the
redemption mix resulting in a higher WAC assumption. Co-brand rewards expenses increased $298 million primarily related to higher spending volumes.     The Company s Membership Rewards URR for current participants was 94 percent  (rounded up)  at December 31, 2012, an increase from 92 percent  (rounded down)  at December 31, 2011
and 91 percent  (rounded up)  in 2010. The increases in the ultimate redemption rate are a result of cardmembers  increased engagement with the Company s Membership Rewards program.   
  Cardmember services expenses increased $83 million or 12 percent and $125 million or 21 percent in 2012 and 2011, respectively, as
compared to the prior year, driven by increases in the costs associated with enhanced benefits to U.S. cardmembers.      Salaries
and employee benefits expenses increased $345 million or 6 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting higher restructuring costs in 2012. Salaries and employee benefits expenses increased $686 million or 12 percent in 2011
as compared to the prior year, reflecting higher employee levels, merit increases for existing employees, higher employee benefits costs and higher incentive-related compensation.   
  Other, net increased $861 million or 15 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting the absence of the benefits of
the Visa and MasterCard litigation settlement payments that ceased in the fourth quarter 2011. In addition, the increase includes higher costs associated with cardmember reimbursements of $143 million, as well as impairment of certain cost method
investments. Other, net also includes occupancy and equipment expenses, which also increased, reflecting higher data processing expenses. Other, net increased $460 million or 20 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting
$300 million of MasterCard settlement payments received in 2010 that ceased in the second quarter of 2011. In addition, higher other expenses are driven by costs associated with Loyalty Partner expenses following the closing of the acquisition in
the first quarter of 2011, data processing and software amortization expense, as well as lease termination costs. Other, net also includes an increase in 2011 as compared to 2010 in professional services expenses related to higher technology
development expenditures including various initiatives related to digitizing the business, globalizing operating platforms and enhancing analytical data and capabilities. Higher legal costs and third-party merchant sales-force commissions also
contributed to the increase.      Income Taxes      The effective tax rate on continuing operations was 30.5 percent, 29.6 percent and 32.0 percent in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The tax rates for 2012 and 2011 included benefits of $146 million and
$77 million, respectively, related to the realization of certain foreign tax credits. The tax rate for 2011 also included a benefit of $102 million related to the resolution of certain prior years  tax items. In addition, the tax rates in all
years reflected the level of pretax income in relation to recurring permanent tax benefits and geographic mix of business.      CASH FLOWS
     Cash Flows from Operating Activities      Cash flows from operating activities primarily include net income adjusted for (i) non-cash items included in net income, including provisions for losses, depreciation and amortization, deferred
taxes, and stock-based compensation and (ii) changes in the balances of operating assets and liabilities, which can vary significantly in the normal course of business due to the amount and timing of various payments.   
  For the year ended December 31, 2012, net cash provided by operating activities of $7.1 billion decreased $2.7 billion compared to
$9.8 billion in 2011. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the liabilities for accounts payable and other liabilities in 2012 as compared to the prior year versus an increase in 2011 as compared to the prior year.   
  For the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash provided by operating activities of $9.8 billion increased $1.1 billion compared to
$8.7 billion in 2010. The increase was primarily due to higher net income in 2011 and increases in other receivables and accounts payable and other liabilities, partially offset by lower provisions for losses and decreases in deferred taxes and
other in 2011.      Cash Flows from Investing Activities      The Company s investing activities primarily include funding cardmember loans and receivables and the Company s available-for-sale investment portfolio.   
  For the year ended December 31, 2012, net cash used in investing activities of $6.5 billion increased $6.0 billion compared to $0.5
billion in 2011, primarily due to a reduction in maturities, redemptions and sales of investments, and a net decrease in the cash flows related to cardmember loans and receivables and restricted cash, partially offset by lower purchases of
investments and fewer acquisitions in 2012 as compared to 2011.      For the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash used in
investing activities of $0.5 billion decreased $0.7 billion   
         26   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
compared to $1.2 billion in 2010, primarily due to lower purchases of investments and a decrease in restricted cash, partially offset by lower sales, maturity and redemption of investments and
increases in cardmember loans and receivables.      Cash Flows from Financing Activities   
  The Company s financing activities primarily include issuing and repaying debt, taking customer deposits, issuing and repurchasing its common shares,
and paying dividends.      For the year ended December 31, 2012, net cash used in financing activities of $3.3 billion
increased $2.6 billion compared to $0.7 billion in 2011, due to a decrease in short-term borrowings, and an increase in the repurchase of common shares in 2012, which more than offset a decrease in principal payments on long-term debt.   
  For the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash used in financing activities of $0.7 billion decreased $7.2 billion compared to $7.9
billion in 2010, due to increases in customer deposits and issuances of long-term debt during 2011 as compared to 2010, partially offset by increases in principal payments on long-term debt and repurchases of common shares and a decrease in
short-term borrowings in 2011.      CERTAIN LEGISLATIVE, REGULATORY AND OTHER DEVELOPMENTS   
  As a participant in the financial services industry, the Company is subject to a wide array of regulations applicable to its businesses. As a bank holding
company and a financial holding company, the Company is subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve and to a range of laws and regulations that impact its business and operations. In addition, the extreme disruptions
in global capital markets that commenced in mid-2007 and the resulting instability and failure and near failure of numerous financial institutions, as well as reports of widespread consumer abuse, led to a number of changes in the financial services
industry, including more intense supervision, enhanced enforcement activity, significant additional regulation and the formation of additional regulatory bodies. In light of recent legislative initiatives and continuing regulatory reform
implementation, compliance requirements and expenditures have risen for financial services firms, including the Company, and the Company expects compliance requirements and expenditures will continue to rise with continuing implementation of these
reforms.       Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act       The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which was enacted in July 2010, is comprehensive in scope and contains a wide array of provisions intended to govern the
practices and oversight of financial institutions and other participants in the financial markets. Among other matters, the law created an independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB), which has broad rulemaking authority over
providers of credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products and services with respect to certain federal consumer financial laws. Moreover, the CFPB has examination and enforcement authority with respect to certain federal consumer
financial laws for some providers of consumer financial products and services, including the Company s insured depository institution subsidiaries. The CFPB is directed to prohibit  unfair, deceptive or abusive  acts or practices, and
to ensure that all consumers have access to fair, transparent and competitive markets for consumer financial products and services. The review of products and practices to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive conduct will be a continuing focus of
the CFPB and banking regulators more broadly, as well as by the Company itself. The ultimate impact of this heightened scrutiny is uncertain, but internal and regulatory reviews have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, changes to
pricing, practices, products and procedures. Such reviews are also likely to continue to result in increased costs related to regulatory oversight, supervision and examination, additional restitution to cardmembers and possible additional regulatory
actions which could include civil money penalties. In July 2012, the CFPB issued a bulletin regarding its review of marketing practices with respect to credit card add-on products, including debt cancellation, identity theft protection, credit
reporting and monitoring, and other supplementary products. The Company is cooperating with regulators in their ongoing regulatory examination of credit card add-on products. For a description of the settlements reached with, and ongoing reviews by,
several bank regulators, including the CFPB, relating to certain aspects of the Company s U.S. consumer card practices, see  Legal Proceedings  in the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2012.      Dodd-Frank prohibits payment card networks from restricting merchants from offering discounts or incentives to customers
to pay with particular forms of payment, such as cash, check, credit or debit card, or restricting merchants from setting certain minimum and maximum transaction amounts for credit cards, as long as any such discounts or incentives or any minimum or
maximum transaction amounts do not discriminate on the basis of the issuer or network and comply with applicable federal or state disclosure requirements.      Under Dodd-Frank, the Federal Reserve is also authorized to regulate interchange fees paid to financial institutions on debit card and certain general-use prepaid card transactions to ensure that they are
 reasonable and proportional  to the cost of processing individual transactions, and to prohibit payment card networks and issuers from requiring transactions to be processed on a single payment network or fewer than two unaffiliated
networks. The Federal Reserve s rule provides that the regulations on interchange and routing do not apply to a three-party network like American Express when it acts as both the issuer and the network for its prepaid cards, and the Company is
therefore not a  payment card network  as that term is defined and used for the specific purposes of the rule.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   Dodd-Frank also authorizes the Federal Reserve to establish heightened capital, leverage
and liquidity standards, risk management requirements, concentration limits on credit exposures, mandatory resolution plans (so-called  living wills ) and stress tests for, among others, large bank holding companies, such as the Company,
that have greater than $50 billion in assets. In addition, certain derivative transactions will be required to be centrally cleared, which may create or increase collateral posting requirements for the Company.   
  Many provisions of Dodd-Frank require the adoption of rules for implementation. In addition, Dodd-Frank mandates multiple studies, which
could result in additional legislative or regulatory action. These new rules and studies will be implemented and undertaken over a period of several years. Accordingly, the ultimate consequences of Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations on the
Company s business, results of operations and financial condition are uncertain at this time.       Department of Justice Litigation
      The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and certain states attorneys general have brought an action against the Company alleging that the
provisions in the Company s card acceptance agreements with merchants that prohibit merchants from discriminating against the Company s card products at the point of sale violate the U.S. antitrust laws. Visa and MasterCard, which were
also defendants in the DOJ and state action, entered into a settlement agreement and have been dismissed as parties pursuant to that agreement. The settlement enjoins Visa and MasterCard, with certain exceptions, from adopting or enforcing rules or
entering into contracts that prohibit merchants from engaging in various actions to steer cardholders to other card products or payment forms at the point of sale. If similar conditions were imposed on American Express, it could have a material
adverse effect on American Express  business.       Other Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives    
  The payment card sector also faces continuing scrutiny in connection with the fees merchants pay to accept cards. Regulators and legislators outside the
United States have focused on the way bankcard network members collectively set the  interchange  (that is, the fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card-issuing bank in  four-party  payment networks, like Visa and
MasterCard). Although, unlike the Visa and MasterCard networks, the American Express network does not collectively set fees, antitrust actions and government regulation relating to merchant pricing could affect all networks.   
  In January 2012, the European Commission (the Commission) published a Green Paper (a document to begin a process of consultation toward
potential regulation) covering a range of issues affecting the payments industry, including interchange fees, non-discrimination and honor-all-cards rules, surcharging, separation of processing from card network management, perceived barriers to
cross-border acquiring, mobile payments and technical standardization. The Commission has completed a consultation period and is expected to issue its preliminary conclusions in early 2013. These conclusions may involve proposals for regulation or
recommendations for self-regulation and could take up to 18-24 months to adopt and implement.      In certain countries, such as
Australia, and in certain member states in Europe, merchants are permitted by law to surcharge card purchases. While surcharging continues to be actively considered in certain jurisdictions, the benefits to customers have not been apparent in
countries that have allowed it, and in some cases regulators are addressing concerns about excessive surcharging by merchants. Surcharging, particularly where it disproportionately impacts American Express cardmembers, which is known as differential
surcharging, could have a material adverse effect on the Company if it becomes widespread. In June 2012, the Reserve Bank of Australia announced changes to the Australian surcharging standards beginning March 18, 2013 that will allow the
Company and other networks to limit a merchant s right to surcharge to  the reasonable cost of card acceptance.  In the European Union (the EU), the Consumer Rights Directive, which was adopted by the EU Council of Ministers in
October 2011, will prohibit merchants from surcharging card purchases more than the merchants  cost of acceptance. The EU member states have until December 2013 to transpose the directive into national law.   
  Although neither a legislative nor regulatory initiative, the settlement by MasterCard and Visa in a U.S. merchant class litigation (which
has been given preliminary, but not final, approval by the trial court) requires, among other things, MasterCard and Visa to permit U.S. merchants, subject to certain conditions, to surcharge credit cards, while allowing them to continue to prohibit
surcharges on debit card transactions.      Also, other countries in which the Company operates have been considering and in some
cases adopting similar legislation and rules that would impose changes on certain practices of card issuers, merchant acquirers and payment networks.      Refer to  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  for a discussion of the series of international capital and liquidity standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
  
         28   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    CONSOLIDATED CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY    
  The Company s balance sheet management objectives are to maintain:       

A solid and flexible equity capital profile;          

A broad, deep and diverse set of funding sources to finance its assets and meet operating requirements; and      

Liquidity programs that enable the Company to continuously meet expected future financing obligations and business requirements for at least a 12-month
period, even in the event it is unable to continue to raise new funds under its traditional funding programs.         CAPITAL
STRATEGY      The Company s objective is to retain sufficient levels of capital generated through earnings and other sources to maintain a
solid equity capital base and to provide flexibility to support future business growth. The Company believes capital allocated to growing businesses with a return on risk-adjusted equity in excess of its costs will generate shareholder value.
     The level and composition of the Company s consolidated capital position are determined through the Company s
internal capital adequacy assessment process, which reflects its business activities, as well as marketplace conditions and credit rating agency requirements. The Company s consolidated capital position is also influenced by subsidiary capital
requirements. The Company, as a bank holding company, is also subject to regulatory requirements administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. The Federal Reserve has established specific capital adequacy guidelines that involve quantitative
measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items.      The Company currently calculates and reports its capital
ratios under the standards commonly referred to as Basel I. In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (commonly referred to as Basel) published new international guidelines for determining regulatory capital (Basel II). In December
2007, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies jointly adopted a final rule based on Basel II. The Company has adopted Basel II in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions and is currently taking steps toward Basel II implementation in the United States.   
  Dodd-Frank and a series of international capital and liquidity standards known as Basel III published by Basel on December 16, 2010
will in the future change the current quantitative measures. In general, these changes will involve, for the U.S. banking industry as a whole, a reduction in the types of instruments deemed to be capital along with an increase in the amount of
capital that assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items require. These changes will generally serve to reduce reported capital ratios compared to current capital guidelines. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation issued three joint notices of proposed rulemaking, collectively referred to as Basel III, which presents details of the proposed new U.S. regulatory capital standards. The
proposed U.S. rules are generally in line with the aforementioned capital standards published by Basel in 2010.      The following table presents
the regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio for the Company and its significant bank subsidiaries, as well as additional ratios widely utilized in the marketplace, as of December 31, 2012.   

Well- Capitalized Ratios (a)   

Ratios as of December 31, 2012  

Risk-Based Capital    

Tier 1   

6%  

American Express Company    

11.9%  

American Express Centurion Bank   

17.6%  

American Express Bank, FSB   

16.5%  

Total   

10%  

American Express Company    

13.8%  

American Express Centurion Bank   

18.9%  

American Express Bank, FSB   

18.7%  

Tier 1 Leverage    

5%  

American Express Company    

10.2%  

American Express Centurion Bank   

17.0%  

American Express Bank, FSB   

17.5%  

Common Equity to Risk-Weighted Assets    

American Express Company    

15.0%  

Tier 1 Common Risk-Based (b)     

American Express Company    

11.9%  

Tangible Common Equity to Risk-Weighted
Assets (b)     

American Express Company    

11.7%  

(a)  
  As defined by the Federal Reserve.     

(b)  
  Refer to page 30 for a reconciliation of Tier 1 common equity and tangible common equity, both non-GAAP measures.     
  The following provides definitions for the Company s regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio, which are calculated as per standard
regulatory guidance, if applicable:       Risk-Weighted Assets    Assets are weighted for risk according to a formula used by the
Federal Reserve to conform to capital adequacy guidelines. On- and off-balance sheet items are weighted for risk, with off-balance sheet items converted to balance sheet equivalents, using risk conversion factors, before being allocated a
risk-adjusted weight. The off-balance sheet items comprise a minimal part of the overall calculation. Risk-weighted assets as of December 31, 2012 were $125.7 billion.       Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio    The Tier 1 capital ratio is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is the sum of common shareholders  equity,
certain perpetual preferred stock (not applicable to the Company), and noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, adjusted for ineligible goodwill and intangible assets, as well as certain other comprehensive income items as follows: net
unrealized   
         29   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
gains/losses on securities and derivatives, and net unrealized pension and other postretirement benefit losses, all net of tax. Tier 1 capital as of December 31, 2012 was $14.9 billion. This
ratio is commonly used by regulatory agencies to assess a financial institution s financial strength and is the primary form of capital used to absorb losses beyond current loss accrual estimates.   
   Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio    The total risk-based capital ratio is calculated as the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, divided by
risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital is the sum of the allowance for receivable and loan losses (limited to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets) and 45 percent of the unrealized gains on equity securities, plus a $750 million subordinated hybrid
security, for which the Company received approval from the Federal Reserve for treatment as Tier 2 capital. Tier 2 capital as of December 31, 2012 was $2.4 billion.       Tier 1 Leverage Ratio    The Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by the Company s average total consolidated assets for the most recent quarter. Average total
consolidated assets as of December 31, 2012 were $147.0 billion.      The following provides definitions for capital ratios widely used in
the marketplace, although they may be calculated differently by different companies:       Tier 1 Common Risk-Based Capital Ratio    The
Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio is calculated as Tier 1 common equity, a non-GAAP measure, divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 common equity is calculated by reference to total shareholders  equity as shown below:   

(Billions)    
      
   December 31, 2012   

Total shareholders  equity   
      
   $   
   18.9   

Net effect of certain items in accumulated other comprehensive loss excluded from Tier 1 common equity   

0.1   

Less: Ineligible goodwill and intangible assets   

(3.9   
   )     
 
    Less: Ineligible deferred tax assets   

(0.2   
   )     

Total Tier 1 common equity   
      
   $   
   14.9   
        
    The Company believes the Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio is useful because it can be used to assess and compare the
quality and composition of the Company s capital with the capital of other financial services companies. Moreover, the proposed U.S. banking capital standards known as Basel III include measures that rely on the Tier 1 common risk-based capital
ratio.       Common Equity and Tangible Common Equity to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratios    Common equity equals the Company s
shareholders  equity of $18.9 billion as of December 31, 2012, and tangible common equity, a non-GAAP measure, equals common equity less goodwill and other intangibles of $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2012. The Company believes
presenting the ratio of tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets is a useful measure of evaluating the strength of the Company s capital position.      The Company seeks to maintain capital levels and ratios in excess of the minimum regulatory requirements; failure to maintain minimum capital levels could affect the Company s status as a financial
holding company and cause the respective regulatory agencies to take actions that could limit the Company s business operations.      The Company s primary source of equity capital has been the generation of net income. Historically, capital generated through net income and other sources, such as the exercise of stock options by
employees, has exceeded the annual growth in its capital requirements. To the extent capital has exceeded business, regulatory and rating agency requirements, the Company has historically returned excess capital to shareholders through its regular
common share dividend and share repurchase program.      The Company maintains certain flexibility to shift capital across its
businesses as appropriate. For example, the Company may infuse additional capital into subsidiaries to maintain capital at targeted levels in consideration of debt ratings and regulatory requirements. These infused amounts can affect the capital
profile and liquidity levels at the American Express Company (Parent Company) level. The Company does not currently intend or foresee a need to shift capital from non-U.S. subsidiaries with permanently reinvested earnings to a U.S. parent company.
       Basel III        Basel III,
when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital than prior requirements, with a greater emphasis on common equity. While final
implementation of the rules related to capital ratios will be determined by the Federal Reserve, the Company estimates that had the new rules (as currently proposed) been in place during 2012, the reported Tier 1 risk-based capital and Tier 1 common
risk-based ratios would have been 11.7 percent, the reported Tier 1 leverage ratio would have been 10.1 percent and the supplementary leverage ratio would have been 8.5 percent.   2    These ratios are calculated using the standardized approach as described in the proposed rules and are based on the
Company s reported Basel I ratios, without taking into account the potential impact of Basel II implementation. As noted above, the Company is currently taking steps toward Basel II implementation in the United States.   
  The estimated impact of the Basel III rules will change over time based upon changes in the size and composition of the Company s
balance sheet as well as based on the U.S.       

2    
  The proposed capital ratios are non-GAAP measures. The Company believes the presentation of the proposed capital ratios is helpful to investors by showing the impact of
Basel III, assuming the proposed new rules as currently proposed are implemented by the Federal Reserve.     
         30   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
implementation of the Basel III rules; and the estimated impact for 2012 is not necessarily indicative of the impact in future periods.      The following provides definitions for capital ratios as defined by the proposed U.S. Basel III guidelines using the standardized approach. All calculations are non-GAAP measures.   
   Basel III Tier 1 Common Risk-Based Capital Ratio    The Basel III Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio is calculated as adjusted Tier 1
common equity divided by adjusted risk-weighted assets.       Basel III Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio    The Basel III Tier 1
risk-based capital ratio is calculated as adjusted Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted risk-weighted assets.      The following table presents a
comparison of the Company s Tier 1 and Tier 1 common risk-based capital under Basel I rules to its estimated Tier 1 and Tier 1 common risk-based capital under Basel III rules.   

(Billions)    
      
   December 31, 2012   

Risk-Based Capital under Basel I   
      
   $   
   14.9   

Adjustments related to:   

AOCI for available for sale securities   

0.3   

Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs   

(0.5   
   )     
 
    Other   

0.1   

Estimated Risk-Based Capital under Basel III (a)    
      
   $   
   14.8   

(a)  
  Estimated Basel III Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common equity reflects the Company s current interpretation of the Basel III rules. The estimated Basel III Tier 1
capital and Tier 1 common equity could change in the future as the U.S. regulatory agencies implement Basel III or if the Company s business changes.         Basel III Risk-Weighted Assets    The Basel III risk-weighted assets reflect the Company s current interpretation of the Basel III rules on the Company s Basel I risk-weighted assets.
Risk-weighted assets include adjustments relating to the impact of the incremental risk weighting applied to deferred tax assets and significant investments in unconsolidated financial institutions, as well as exposures to past due accounts,
equities and sovereigns. Basel III risk-weighted assets as of December 31, 2012 were estimated to be $126.8 billion.       Basel III Tier 1
Leverage Ratio    The Basel III Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Basel III Tier 1 capital by the Company s average total consolidated assets.       Basel III Supplementary Leverage Ratio    The Basel III supplementary leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Basel III Tier 1 capital by the Company s estimated total assets for leverage
capital purposes under Basel III. Estimated total assets for leverage capital purposes includes adjustments for Tier 1 capital deductions, off-balance sheet derivatives, undrawn unconditionally cancellable commitments and other off-balance sheet
liabilities. Total assets for leverage capital purposes as of December 31, 2012 based on the Company s current interpretation of the Basel III rules were estimated to be $173.5 billion.   
  SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS      The
Company has a share repurchase program to return excess capital to shareholders. The share repurchases reduce shares outstanding and offset, in whole or part, the issuance of new shares as part of employee compensation plans.   
  During 2012, the Company returned $4.9 billion to its shareholders in the form of dividends ($909 million) and share repurchases ($4.0
billion). The Company repurchased 69 million common shares at an average price of $57.56 in 2012. These dividend and share repurchase amounts represent approximately 98 percent of total capital generated during the year. This percentage
for 2012 is significantly greater than the on average and over time target to distribute approximately 50 percent of the capital to shareholders as dividends or through the repurchases of common stock. This payout percentage is also higher than
most of the other U.S. financial institutions that are required to submit their capital distribution plans to the Federal Reserve for approval. These distribution percentages result from the strength of the Company s capital ratios and the
amount of capital it generates from net income and through employee stock plans in relation to the amount of capital required to support its organic business growth and through acquisitions.   
  Since the inception of the program in December 1994, the Company has distributed approximately 66 percent of capital generated through
share repurchases and dividends on a cumulative basis.      On January 7, 2013, the Company submitted its comprehensive
capital plan to the Federal Reserve requesting approval to proceed with additional share repurchases in 2013. The capital plan includes an analysis of performance and capital availability under certain adverse economic assumptions. The capital plan
was submitted to the Federal Reserve pursuant to the Federal Reserve s guidance on dividends and capital distributions. The Company expects a response from the Federal Reserve by March 14, 2013. Additionally, the Company was informed in
March 2012 that the Federal Reserve had no objections to the Company s plan to repurchase up to $1 billion of shares in the first quarter of 2013.      FUNDING STRATEGY      The Company s principal funding objective is to maintain broad and
well-diversified funding sources to allow it to meet its maturing obligations, cost-effectively finance current and future asset growth in its global businesses as well as to maintain a strong liquidity profile. The diversity of funding sources by
type of debt instrument, by maturity and by investor base, among other factors, provides additional insulation from the impact of disruptions in any one type of debt, maturity or investor. The mix of the Company s funding in any period will
seek to achieve cost efficiency consistent with both maintaining diversified sources and achieving its liquidity objectives. The Company s   
         31   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
funding strategy and activities are integrated into its asset-liability management activities. The Company has in place a funding policy covering American Express Company and all of its
subsidiaries.      The Company s proprietary card businesses are the primary asset-generating businesses, with significant
assets in both domestic and international cardmember receivable and lending activities. The Company s financing needs are in large part a consequence of its proprietary card-issuing businesses and the maintenance of a liquidity position to
support all of its business activities, such as merchant payments. The Company generally pays merchants for card transactions prior to reimbursement by cardmembers and therefore funds the merchant payments during the period cardmember loans and
receivables are outstanding. The Company also has additional financing needs associated with general corporate purposes, including acquisition activities.      FUNDING PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES      The Company meets its funding needs through a variety of
sources, including direct and third-party distributed deposits and debt instruments, such as senior unsecured debentures, asset securitizations, borrowings through secured financing facilities and long-term committed bank borrowing facilities in
certain non-U.S. regions.      The Company had the following consolidated debt and customer deposits outstanding as of December 31:
      
    The Company seeks to raise funds to meet all of its financing needs, including seasonal and other working capital needs,
while also seeking to maintain sufficient cash and readily marketable securities that are easily convertible to cash, in order to meet the scheduled maturities of all long-term funding obligations on a consolidated basis for a 12-month period.
Management does not expect to make any major funding or liquidity strategy changes in order to meet Basel III s Liquidity Coverage Ratio standard.      The Company s funding plan for the full year 2013 includes, among other sources, approximately $4.0 billion to $10.0 billion of unsecured term debt issuance and $3.0 billion to $9.0 billion of
secured term debt issuance. The Company s funding plans are subject to various risks and uncertainties, such as future business growth, the impact of global economic, political and other events on market capacity, demand for securities offered
by the Company, regulatory changes, ability to securitize and sell receivables, and the performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond the Company s control.
     The Company s equity capital and funding strategies are designed, among other things, to maintain appropriate and stable
unsecured debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies: Moody s Investor Services (Moody s), Standard   Poor s (S P), Fitch Ratings (Fitch) and Dominion Bond Rating Services (DBRS). Such ratings help support the
Company s access to cost-effective unsecured funding as part of its overall funding strategy. The Company s asset-backed securitization (ABS) activities are rated separately.       Unsecured Debt Ratings        

Credit Agency    
      
     Entity
Rated    

Short-Term Ratings    

Long-Term Ratings    

Outlook     

DBRS   
      
  All rated entities  
      
  R-1 (middle)  
      
    A     (high)   
      
  Stable   

Fitch   
      
  All rated entities  
      
  F1  
      
  A+  
      
  Stable   

Moody s   
      
  TRS (a)  and rated operating subsidiaries  
      
  Prime-1  
      
  A2  
      
  Stable   

Moody s   
      
  American Express Company  
      
  Prime-2  
      
  A3  
      
  Stable   

S P   
      
  TRS and rated operating subsidiaries  
      
  A-2  
      
  A-  
      
  Stable   

S P   
      
  American Express Company  
      
  A-2  
      
  BBB+  
      
  Stable   

(a)  
  American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.        Downgrades in the ratings of the Company s unsecured debt or asset securitization program securities could result in higher funding costs, as well as higher fees related to borrowings under its
unused lines of credit. Declines in credit ratings could also reduce the Company s borrowing capacity in the unsecured debt and asset securitization capital markets. The Company believes the change in its funding mix, which now includes an
increasing proportion of U.S. retail deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), should reduce the impact that credit rating downgrades would have on the Company s funding capacity and costs. Downgrades to certain of
the Company s unsecured debt ratings in the last several years have not materially impacted the Company s borrowing costs or resulted in a reduction in its borrowing capacity.      SHORT-TERM FUNDING PROGRAMS      Short-term borrowings, such as commercial paper, are defined as
any debt with an original maturity of 12 months or less, as well as interest-bearing overdrafts with banks. The Company s short-term funding programs are used primarily to meet working capital needs, such as managing seasonal variations in
receivables balances. Short-term borrowings were stable throughout 2012. The amount of short-term borrowings issued in the future will depend on the Company s funding strategy, its needs and market conditions.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   The Company had the following short-term borrowings outstanding as of December 31:   
   
    Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of these borrowings.   
  The Company s short-term borrowings as a percentage of total debt was 5.3 percent and 6.8 percent as of December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively.      As of December 31, 2012, the Company had no commercial paper outstanding. Average commercial paper
outstanding was $0.4 billion and $0.6 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively.      American Express Credit Corporation s
(Credco) total back-up liquidity coverage, which includes its undrawn committed bank facilities, was 73 percent and 62 percent of its net short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The undrawn committed bank credit
facilities were $3.0 billion as of December 31, 2012.      DEPOSIT PROGRAMS      The Company offers deposits within its American Express Centurion Bank and American Express Bank, FSB (FSB) subsidiaries (together, the Banks). These funds are currently insured up to $250,000 per account
through the FDIC. The Company s ability to obtain deposit funding and offer competitive interest rates is dependent on the Banks  capital levels. The Company, through the FSB, has a direct retail deposit program, Personal Savings from
American Express, to supplement its distribution of deposit products sourced through third-party distribution channels. The direct retail program makes FDIC-insured certificates of deposit (CDs) and high-yield savings account products available
directly to consumers.      The Company held the following deposits as of December 31:   

(a)  
  The weighted average remaining maturity and weighted average rate at issuance on the total portfolio of U.S. retail CDs, issued through direct and third-party programs,
were 18.5 months and 2.1 percent, respectively, as of December 31, 2012.        LONG-TERM DEBT PROGRAMS   
  During 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries issued debt and asset securitizations with maturities ranging from 3 to 5 years. These amounts included
approximately $4.6 billion of AAA-rated lending securitization certificates, $0.6 billion of subordinated certificates and $5.6 billion of unsecured debt across a variety of maturities and markets. During the year, the Company retained approximately
$0.4 billion of subordinated securities, as the pricing and yields for these securities were not attractive compared to other sources of financing available to the Company.      The Company s 2012 debt issuances were as follows:       

(Billions)    
      
  Amount (a)

American Express Credit Corporation:   

Fixed Rate Senior Notes (weighted-average coupon of 2.0%)   
      
   $   
   3.5   

Floating Rate Senior Notes (3-month LIBOR plus 110 basis points)   

0.8   

American Express Centurion Bank:   

Fixed Rate Senior Notes (0.9% coupon)   

0.8   

Floating Rate Senior Notes (3-month LIBOR plus 45 basis points)    

0.5   

American Express Credit Account Master
Trust: (b)    

Fixed Rate Senior Certificates (weighted-average coupon of 0.7%)   

2.1   

Fixed Rate Subordinated Certificates (weighted-average coupon of 1.1%)   

0.3   

Floating Rate Senior Certificates (1-month LIBOR plus 21 basis points on average)   

2.5   

Floating Rate Subordinated Certificates (1-month LIBOR plus 76 basis points on average)   

0.3   

Total   
      
   $   
   10.8   

(a)  
  Does not include new notes issued as a result of the debt exchange transaction the Company entered into in the fourth quarter of 2012. See Debt Exchange section below
for further details on this transaction.     

(b)  
  Issuances from the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) do not include $0.4 billion of subordinated securities retained by the Company
during the year.        DEBT EXCHANGE      During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company completed an exchange of $1.1 billion of its outstanding $1.75 billion 8.125 percent notes maturing on May 20, 2019 for $1.3 billion of 2.65 percent
notes maturing on December 2, 2022 and cash; in addition, the Company exchanged $0.8 billion of its outstanding $1.0 billion 8.15 percent notes maturing on March 19, 2038 for $1.1 billion of 4.05 percent notes maturing on December 3,
2042 and cash. The exchange was completed to retire high coupon debt in the current favorable interest rate environment.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   ASSET SECURITIZATION PROGRAMS      The Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables and loans arising from its card business, as the securitization market provides the Company with cost-effective funding. Securitization of
cardmember receivables and loans is accomplished through the transfer of those assets to a trust, which in turn issues to third-party investors certificates or notes (securities) collateralized by the transferred assets. The proceeds from issuance
are distributed to the Company, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, as consideration for the transferred assets.      The
receivables and loans being securitized are reported as assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets and the related securities issued to third-party investors are reported as long-term debt.   
  Under the respective terms of the securitization trust agreements, the occurrence of certain triggering events associated with the
performance of the assets of each trust could result in payment of trust expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in a worst-case scenario, early amortization of investor certificates. During the year ended December 31, 2012, no such
triggering events occurred.      The ability of issuers of asset-backed securities relating to cardmember receivables and loans of
an originating bank to obtain necessary credit ratings for their issuances has historically been based, in part, on qualification under the FDIC s safe harbor rule for assets transferred in securitizations. In 2009 and 2010, the FDIC issued a
series of changes to its safe harbor rule, including a final rule for securitization safe harbor, issued in 2010, requiring issuers to comply with a new set of requirements in order to qualify for the safe harbor protection. Issuances out of the
Lending Trust are grandfathered under the new FDIC final rule. There are two trusts for the Company s cardmember charge card receivable securitization, the American Express Issuance Trust (the Charge Trust) and the American Express Issuance
Trust II (the Charge Trust II). The Charge Trust does not satisfy the criteria required to be covered by the FDIC s new safe harbor rule, nor did it meet the requirements to be covered by the safe harbor rule existing prior to 2009. It was
structured, and continues to be structured, so that the financial assets transferred to the Charge Trust would not be deemed to be property of the originating banks in the event the FDIC is appointed as a receiver or conservator of the originating
banks. The Charge Trust II, which was formed in October 2012, was designed to satisfy the criteria to be covered by the FDIC s new safe harbor rule.      LIQUIDITY MANAGEMENT      The Company s liquidity objective is to maintain access to a
diverse set of cash, readily marketable securities and contingent sources of liquidity, so that the Company can continuously meet expected future financing obligations and business requirements for at least a 12-month period, even in the event it is
unable to raise new funds under its regular funding programs. The Company has in place a Liquidity Risk Policy that sets out the Company s approach to managing liquidity risk on an enterprise-wide basis.   
  The Company incurs and accepts liquidity risk arising in the normal course of offering its products and services. The liquidity risks that
the Company is exposed to can arise from a variety of sources, and thus its liquidity management strategy includes a variety of parameters, assessments and guidelines, including, but not limited to:   

Maintaining a diversified set of funding sources (refer to Funding Strategy section for more details);      

Maintaining unencumbered liquid assets and off-balance sheet liquidity sources; and      

Projecting cash inflows and outflows from a variety of sources and under a variety of scenarios, including contingent liquidity exposures such as
unused cardmember lines of credit and collateral requirements for derivative transactions.         The Company s current
liquidity target is to have adequate liquidity in the form of excess cash and readily marketable securities that are easily convertible into cash to satisfy all maturing long-term funding obligations for a 12-month period. In addition to its cash
and readily marketable securities, the Company maintains a variety of contingent liquidity resources, such as access to undrawn amounts under its secured financing facilities and the Federal Reserve discount window as well as committed bank credit
facilities.      As of December 31, 2012, the Company s excess cash available to fund long-term maturities was as follows:   

(Billions)    
      
  Total  

Cash   
      
   $     
   15.8     
    (a)      
 
    Securities held as collateral   

0.3     
    (b)      

Cash available to fund maturities   
      
   $   
   16.1   

(a)  
  Includes $22.3 billion classified as cash and cash equivalents, less $6.5 billion of cash available to fund day-to-day operations. The $15.8 billion represents cash
residing in the United States.     

(b)  
  Off-balance sheet securities held as collateral from a counterparty that had not been sold or repledged.     
  The upcoming approximate maturities of the Company s long-term unsecured debt, debt issued in connection with asset-backed securitizations and
long-term certificates of deposit are as follows:       
    The Company s financing needs for the next 12 months are expected to arise from these debt and deposit maturities as
well as changes in business needs, including changes in outstanding cardmember loans and receivables and acquisition activities.   
         34   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   The Company considers various factors in determining the amount of liquidity it
maintains, such as economic and financial market conditions, seasonality in business operations, growth in its businesses, potential acquisitions or dispositions, the cost and availability of alternative liquidity sources, and regulatory and credit
rating agency considerations.      The yield the Company receives on its cash and readily marketable securities is, generally, less
than the interest expense on the sources of funding for these balances. Thus, the Company incurs substantial net interest costs on these amounts.      The level of net interest costs will be dependent on the size of the Company s cash and readily marketable securities holdings, as well as the difference between its cost of funding these amounts and
their investment yields. Refer also to  Business Segment Results   Corporate   Other.       Securitized Borrowing
Capacity      On August 3, 2012, the Company extended its $3.0 billion committed, revolving, secured financing facility, with an original
maturity date in December 2013, to July 15, 2014. This secured financing facility gives the Company the right to sell up to $3.0 billion face amount of eligible AAA notes from the Charge Trust.   
  On October 3, 2012, the Company entered into a new three-year committed, revolving, secured financing facility maturing on
September 15, 2015 that gives the Company the right to sell up to $2.0 billion face amount of eligible AAA certificates from the Lending Trust at any time. Both facilities are used in the ordinary course of business to fund seasonal working
capital needs, as well as to further enhance the Company s contingent funding resources. As of December 31, 2012, $3.0 billion was drawn on the Charge Trust facility and no amounts were drawn on the Lending Trust facility.   
  Federal Reserve Discount Window      As
insured depository institutions, the Banks may borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, subject to the amount of qualifying collateral that they may pledge. The Federal Reserve has indicated that both credit and charge card receivables
are a form of qualifying collateral for secured borrowings made through the discount window. Whether specific assets will be considered qualifying collateral and the amount that may be borrowed against the collateral, remain at the discretion of the
Federal Reserve.      The Company had approximately $44.2 billion as of December 31, 2012 in U.S. credit card loans and charge
card receivables that could be sold over time through its existing securitization trusts, or pledged in return for secured borrowings to provide further liquidity, subject in each case to applicable market conditions and eligibility criteria.
     Committed Bank Credit Facilities      In addition to the secured financing facilities described above, the Company maintained committed syndicated bank credit facilities as of December 31, 2012 of $7.7 billion which expires as follows:
      
    The availability of the credit lines is subject to the Company s compliance with certain financial covenants,
principally the maintenance by Credco of a certain ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges to fixed charges. As of December 31, 2012, the Company was in compliance with each of its covenants. The drawn balance of the committed credit
facilities of $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2012 was used to fund the Company s business activities in the normal course. The remaining capacity of the facilities mainly served to further enhance the Company s contingent funding
resources.      The Company s committed bank credit facilities do not contain material adverse change clauses, which might
otherwise preclude borrowing under the credit facilities, nor are they dependent on the Company s credit rating.       OFF-BALANCE
SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS       The Company has identified both on and off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements,
obligations and other relationships that may have a material current or future effect on its financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity and capital resources.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS      The table below identifies transactions that represent contractually committed future obligations of the Company. Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods and services that are
enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.   

(a)  
  The above table excludes approximately $1.2 billion of tax liabilities that have been recorded in accordance with GAAP governing the accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes as inherent complexities and the number of tax years currently open for examination in multiple jurisdictions do not permit reasonable estimates of payments, if any, to be made over a range of years.     

(b)  
  Estimated interest payments were calculated using the effective interest rate in place as of December 31, 2012, and reflects the effect of existing interest rate
swaps. Actual cash flows may differ from estimated payments.     

(c)  
  As of December 31, 2012, there were no minimum required contributions, and no contributions are currently planned, for the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan.
For the U.S. American Express Retirement Restoration Plan and non-U.S. defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans, contributions in 2013 are anticipated to be approximately $67 million, and this amount has been included within other
long-term liabilities. Remaining obligations under defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans aggregating $729 million have not been included in the table above as the timing of such obligations is not determinable. Additionally, other
long-term liabilities do not include $5.8 billion of Membership Rewards liabilities, which are not considered long-term liabilities as cardmembers in good standing can redeem points immediately, without restrictions, and because the timing of point
redemption is not determinable.     

(d)  
  The purchase obligation amounts represent non-cancelable minimum contractual obligations by period under contracts that were in effect as of December 31, 2012.
Termination fees are included in these amounts.            The
Company also has certain contingent obligations to make payments under contractual agreements entered into as part of the ongoing operation of the Company s business, primarily with co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such
arrangements were approximately $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2012.      In addition to the contractual obligations noted
above, the Company has off-balance sheet arrangements that include guarantees and other off-balance sheet arrangements as more fully described below.      GUARANTEES      The Company s principal guarantees are associated with cardmember services
to enhance the value of owning an American Express card. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had guarantees totaling approximately $45 billion related to cardmember protection plans, as well as other guarantees in the ordinary course of
business that are within the scope of GAAP governing the accounting for guarantees. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the Company s guarantees.   
  CERTAIN OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS      As of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately $253 billion of unused credit available to cardmembers as part of established lending product agreements. Total unused credit available to
cardmembers does not represent potential future cash requirements, as a significant portion of this unused credit will likely not be drawn. The Company s charge card products generally have no pre-set limit, and therefore are not reflected in
unused credit available to cardmembers.      To mitigate counterparty credit risk related to derivatives, the Company accepted
noncash collateral in the form of security interest in U.S. Treasury securities from its derivatives counterparties with a fair value of $335 million as of December 31, 2012, none of which was sold or repledged.   
  Refer to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion regarding the Company s other off-balance sheet
arrangements.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    RISK MANAGEMENT       GOVERNANCE      Risk management and key risks identified by management are overseen by the
Company s Board of Directors and two of its committees: the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and the Compensation and Benefits Committee. Both committees consist solely of independent directors and provide regular updates to the Board of
Directors.      The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee approves key risk management policies, and monitors the Company s
risk culture, personnel, capabilities and outcomes. The Committee approves the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy along with its sub-policies governing individual credit risk, institutional credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational
risk, asset/liability risk and capital management, as well as the launch of new products and services. The Committee receives regular reports about key risks affecting the Company, including their potential likelihood and impact, as well as risk
escalation and compliance with the policy-based risk limits. The Committee regularly reviews the credit risk profiles of the major business units, including their risk trends and risk management capabilities. It also reviews enterprise-wide
operational risk trends, events and capabilities, with an emphasis on compliance, fraud, legal, information security, and privacy impacts; as well as trends in market, funding, liquidity and reputational risk. The Committee meets regularly in
private sessions with the Company s Chief Risk Officer and other senior management with regard to the Company s risk management processes, controls and capabilities.      The Compensation and Benefits Committee works with the Chief Risk Officer to ensure that the compensation programs covering risk-taking employees, business units, and the Company overall appropriately
balance risk with incentives and that business performance is achieved without taking imprudent risks. The Company s Chief Risk Officer is actively involved in the goal-setting process; reviews the current and forward-looking risk profiles of
each business unit; and provides input into performance evaluation. The Chief Risk Officer attests to the Compensation and Benefits Committee that performance goals and actual results have been achieved without taking imprudent risks. The
Compensation and Benefits Committee uses a risk-balanced incentive compensation framework to decide on the Company s bonus pools and the compensation of senior executives.      There are several internal management committees, including the Enterprise-wide Risk Management Committee (ERMC), chaired by the Company s Chief Risk Officer, and the Asset-Liability Committee
(ALCO), chaired by the Company s Chief Financial Officer, which support the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors in overseeing risks across the Company. The ERMC is responsible for credit, operational and reputational
risks, while the ALCO is responsible for market, liquidity, asset/liability risk and capital. In 2012, the ERMC created a dedicated compliance sub-committee.      The Enterprise-wide Risk Management Policy defines risk management roles and responsibilities. The policy sets the Company s risk appetite and defines governance over risk taking and the risk
monitoring processes across the Company. Risk appetite defines the overall risk levels the Company is willing to accept while operating in full compliance with regulatory and legal requirements. In addition, it establishes principles for risk taking
in the aggregate and for each risk type, and is supported by a comprehensive system of risk limits, escalation triggers and controls designed to ensure that the risks remain within the defined risk appetite boundaries.   
  The Policy also defines the Company s  three lines of defense  approach to risk management. Business Unit presidents are
supported by Chief Credit and Lead Operational Risk Officers, who lead the first line of defense. The Global Risk Oversight group (described below) is the second line of defense and provides oversight of risks across the Company that is independent
from the first line of defense. The Internal Audit Group constitutes the third line of defense, ensuring that the first and second lines operate as intended.      GLOBAL RISK OVERSIGHT      The Global Risk Oversight (GRO) group provides the Chief Risk Officer
with its independent assessment of risks. The GRO seeks to ensure that key risk management policies are consistently implemented and enforced throughout the Company, including risk-based limits and escalations. In addition, the GRO is responsible
for aggregation and reporting of risks across risk types, business units and geography and maintains enterprise-wide standards, procedures, tools and processes for managing credit and operational risks. The head of GRO has a solid line reporting
relationship to the Company s Chief Risk Officer.      CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT      Credit risk is defined as loss due to obligor or counterparty default or changes in the credit quality of a security. Credit risks in the Company are divided into two broad categories: individual and
institutional. Each has distinct risk management tools and metrics. Business units that create individual or institutional credit risk exposures of significant importance are supported by dedicated risk management teams, each led by a Chief Credit
Officer. To preserve independence, Chief Credit Officers for all business units have a solid line reporting relationship to the Company s Chief Risk Officer.      INDIVIDUAL CREDIT RISK      Individual credit risk arises principally from consumer and small
business charge cards, credit cards, lines of credit, and loans. These portfolios consist of millions of customers across multiple geographies, occupations, industries and levels of net worth. The Company benefits from the high-quality profile of
its customers, which is driven by brand, premium customer servicing, product features and risk management capabilities, which span underwriting, customer management and collections. Externally, the risk in these portfolios is correlated to broad
economic trends, such as unemployment rates and GDP growth, which can affect customer liquidity.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   The business unit leaders and Chief Credit Officers take the lead in managing the
individual credit risk process. These Chief Credit Officers are guided by the Individual Credit Risk Committee, which is responsible for implementation and enforcement of the Individual Credit Risk Management Policy. This policy is further supported
by subordinate policies and operating manuals covering decision logic and processes of credit extension, including prospecting, new account approvals, authorizations, line management and collections. The subordinate risk policies and operating
manuals are designed to ensure consistent application of risk management principles and standardized reporting of asset quality and loss recognition.      Individual credit risk management is supported by sophisticated proprietary scoring and decision-making models that use the most up-to-date proprietary information on prospects and customers, such as
spending and payment history and data feeds from credit bureaus. Additional data, such as new commercial variables, continue to be integrated into the risk models to further mitigate small business risk. The Company has developed data-driven
economic decision logic for customer interactions to better serve its customers.      INSTITUTIONAL CREDIT RISK   
  Institutional credit risk arises principally within the Company s Global Corporate Payments, Global Merchant Services, GNS, Prepaid Services and
Foreign Exchange Services businesses, as well as investment and liquidity management activities. Unlike individual credit risk, institutional credit risk is characterized by a lower loss frequency but higher severity. It is affected both by general
economic conditions and by client-specific events. The absence of large losses in any given year or over several years is not necessarily representative of the level of risk of institutional portfolios, given the infrequency of loss events in such
portfolios.      Similar to Individual Credit Risk, business units taking institutional credit risks are supported by Chief Credit
Officers. These officers are guided by the Institutional Risk Management Committee (IRMC), which is responsible for implementation and enforcement of the Institutional Credit Risk Management Policy and for providing guidance to the credit officers
of each business unit with substantial institutional credit risk exposures. The committee, along with the business unit Chief credit officers, make investment decisions in core risk capabilities, ensure proper implementation of the underwriting
standards and contractual rights of risk mitigation, monitor risk exposures, and determine risk mitigation actions. The IRMC formally reviews large institutional risk exposures to ensure compliance with ERMC guidelines and procedures and escalates
them to the ERMC as appropriate. At the same time, the IRMC provides guidance to the business unit risk teams to optimize risk-adjusted returns on capital. A centralized risk rating unit and a specialized airline risk group provide risk assessment
of institutional obligors across the Company.      Exposure to Airline Industry      The Company has multiple important co-brand, rewards and corporate payments arrangements with airlines. The Company s largest airline partner is Delta Air Lines and this relationship includes
exclusive co-brand credit card partnerships and other arrangements including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance, travel and corporate payments. Refer to Note 22 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of these
relationships.      European Debt Exposure      As part of its ongoing risk management process, the Company monitors its financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign customers and counterparties, and measures and manages concentrations of
risk by geographic regions, as well as by economic sectors and industries. Several European countries have been subject to credit deterioration due to weaknesses in their economic and fiscal profiles. The Company is closely monitoring its exposures
in Italy, Spain, Ireland, Greece and Portugal, which have been determined to be high risk based on the market assessment of the riskiness of their sovereign debt and the Company s assessment of their economic and financial outlook. As of
December 31, 2012, the Company did not hold any investments in sovereign debt securities issued by Italy, Spain, Ireland, Greece or Portugal, and the Company s gross credit exposures to government entities, financial institutions and
corporations in those countries were individually and collectively not material.      OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS   
  The Company defines operational risk as the risk of not achieving business objectives due to inadequate or failed processes or information systems, human
error or the external environment (i.e., natural disasters), including losses due to failures to comply with laws and regulations. Operational risk is inherent in all business activities and can impact an organization through direct or indirect
financial loss, brand damage, customer dissatisfaction, or legal and regulatory penalties.      To appropriately measure and manage
operational risk, the Company has implemented a comprehensive operational risk framework that is defined in the Operational Risk Management Policy approved by the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee. The Operational Risk Management Committee (ORMC)
coordinates with all control groups on effective risk assessments and controls and oversees the preventive, responsive and mitigation efforts by Lead Operational Risk Officers in the business units and staff groups. In addition, enhanced processes
for issue resolution and customer remediation were implemented in 2012 to strengthen the Company s commitment to the customer and its focus on quality execution.      The Company uses the operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor and report inherent and emerging operational   
         38   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
risks. This framework, supervised by the ORMC, consists of (a) operational risk event capture, (b) a project office to coordinate issue management and control enhancements, (c) key
risk indicators such as customer complaints or pre-implementation test metrics, and (d) process and entity-level risk self-assessments.      The framework requires the assessment of operational risk events to determine root causes, customer impacts and resolution plan accountability to correct any defect, remediate customers, and enhance
controls and testing to mitigate future issues. The impact on the Company is assessed from an operational, financial, brand, regulatory compliance and legal perspective.      COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS      The Company defines compliance risk as the risk of legal
or reputational harm, fines, monetary penalties, payment of damages or other forms of sanction as a result of non-compliance with applicable laws, regulations, rules or standards of conduct.  
  The Company views its ability to effectively mitigate compliance risk as an important aspect of its business model. The Company s
Global Compliance and Ethics organization is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Company s Corporate-wide Compliance Risk Management Program. Pursuant to this program, the Company seeks to manage and mitigate compliance risk by
assessing, controlling, monitoring, measuring and reporting the regulatory risks to which it is exposed.     The Audit, Risk and
Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for approving key compliance policies following their review by the ERMC and for reviewing the effectiveness of the Corporate-wide Compliance Risk Management Program across the
Company s business functions. In addition, the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee approves the Company s compliance risk tolerance statement, which reinforces the importance of compliance risk management at the Company.   
  REPUTATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS      The
Company defines reputational risk as the risk that negative public perceptions regarding the Company s products, services, business practices, management, clients and partners, whether true or not, could cause a decline in the customer base,
costly litigation, or revenue reductions.      The Company views protecting its reputation as core to its vision of becoming the
world s most respected service brand and fundamental to its long-term success.      General principles and the overall
framework for managing reputational risk across the Company are defined in the Reputational Risk Management Policy. The Reputational Risk Management Committee is responsible for implementation of and adherence to this policy, and for performing
periodic assessments of the Company s reputation and brand health based on internal and external assessments.      Business
leaders across the Company are responsible for ensuring that reputation risk implications of transactions, business activities and management practices are appropriately considered and relevant subject matter experts are engaged as needed.
     MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS   
  Market risk is the risk to earnings or value resulting from movements in market prices. The Company s market risk exposure is primarily generated by:

Interest rate risk in its card, insurance and Travelers Cheque businesses, as well as in its investment portfolios; and      

Foreign exchange risk in its operations outside the United States.      
  Market Risk limits and escalation triggers within the Market Risk and Asset Liability Management Policies are approved by the Audit, Risk
and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors and ALCO. Market risk is centrally monitored for compliance with policy and limits by the Market Risk Committee, which reports into the ALCO and is chaired by the Chief Market Risk Officer. Market
risk management is also guided by policies covering the use of derivative financial instruments, funding and liquidity and investments.      The Company s market exposures are in large part by-products of the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate risk arises through the funding of cardmember receivables and fixed-rate loans
with variable-rate borrowings as well as through the risk to net interest margin from changes in the relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR.      Interest rate exposure within the Company s charge card and fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the proportion of total funding provided by variable-rate debt and deposits compared to
fixed-rate debt and deposits. In addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to effectively convert fixed-rate debt to variable-rate or to convert variable-rate debt to fixed-rate. The Company may change the mix between variable-rate
and fixed-rate funding based on changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors.      The Company does not engage in
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company s derivative financial instruments.   
  As of December 31, 2012, the detrimental effect on the Company s annual net interest income of a hypothetical 100 basis point
increase in interest rates would be approximately $223 million. To calculate this effect, the Company first measures the potential change in net interest income over the following 12 months taking into consideration anticipated future business
growth and market-based forward interest rates. The Company then measures the impact of the assumed forward interest rate plus the 100 basis point increase on the projected net interest income. This effect is primarily driven by the volume of charge
card receivables and loans deemed to be fixed-rate and funded by variable-rate liabilities. As of December 31, 2012, the   
         39   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
percentage of worldwide charge card accounts receivable and credit card loans that were deemed to be fixed rate was 67.5 percent, or $74 billion, with the remaining 32.5 percent, or $36 billion,
deemed to be variable rate.      The Company is also subject to market risk from changes in the relationship between the benchmark
Prime rate that determines the yield on its variable-rate lending receivables and the benchmark LIBOR rate that determines the effective interest cost on a significant portion of its outstanding debt. Differences in the rate of change of these two
indices, commonly referred to as basis risk, would impact the Company s variable-rate U.S. lending net interest margins because the Company borrows at rates based on LIBOR but lends to its customers based on the Prime rate. The detrimental
effect on the Company s net interest income of a hypothetical 10 basis point decrease in the spread between Prime and one-month LIBOR over the next 12 months is estimated to be $34 million. The Company currently has approximately $35 billion of
Prime-based, variable-rate U.S. lending receivables and $34 billion of LIBOR-indexed debt, including asset securitizations.   
  Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency charges, foreign subsidiary equity and foreign currency earnings in units
outside the United States. The Company s foreign exchange risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements to buy and sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this market exposure to the extent it is economically justified through
various means, including the use of derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and cross-currency swap contracts, which can help  lock in  the value of the Company s exposure to specific currencies.   
  As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, foreign currency derivative instruments with total notional amounts of approximately $27 billion
and $23 billion, respectively, were outstanding. Derivative hedging activities related to cross-currency charges, balance sheet exposures and foreign currency earnings generally do not qualify for hedge accounting; however, derivative hedging
activities related to translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity generally do.      With respect to cross-currency charges
and balance sheet exposures, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, the effect on the Company s earnings of a hypothetical 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar would be immaterial as of December 31,
2012. With respect to earnings denominated in foreign currencies, the adverse impact on pretax income of a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening of the U.S. dollar related to anticipated overseas operating results for the next 12 months would be
approximately $187 million as of December 31, 2012. With respect to translation exposure of foreign subsidiary equity, including related foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding, a hypothetical 10 percent strengthening in the U.S. dollar
would result in an immaterial reduction in equity as of December 31, 2012.      The actual impact of interest rate and foreign
exchange rate changes will depend on, among other factors, the timing of rate changes, the extent to which different rates do not move in the same direction or in the same direction to the same degree, and changes in the volume and mix of the
Company s businesses.      FUNDING   LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS   
  Liquidity risk is defined as the inability of the Company to meet its ongoing financial and business obligations as they become due at a reasonable cost.
General principles and the overall framework for managing liquidity risk across the Company are defined in the Liquidity Risk Policy approved by the ALCO and Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee of the Board. Liquidity risk is centrally managed by
the Funding and Liquidity Committee, which reports into the ALCO. The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining access to a diverse set of cash, readily-marketable securities and contingent sources of liquidity, such that the Company can
continuously meet its business requirements and expected future financing obligations for at least a 12-month period, even in the event it is unable to raise new funds under its regular funding programs. The Company balances the trade-offs between
maintaining too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility, and having inadequate liquidity, which may result in financial distress during a liquidity event.   
  Liquidity risk is managed both at an aggregate Company level and at the major legal entities in order to ensure that sufficient funding
and liquidity resources are available in the amount and in the location needed in a stress event. The Funding and Liquidity Committee reviews the forecasts of the Company s aggregate and subsidiary cash positions and financing requirements,
approves the funding plans designed to satisfy those requirements under normal conditions, establishes guidelines to identify the amount of liquidity resources required and monitors positions and determines any actions to be taken. Liquidity
planning also takes into account operating cash flexibilities.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS       The Company is a global service company principally engaged in businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: USCS, ICS, GCS and GNMS.   
  The Company considers a combination of factors when evaluating the composition of its reportable operating segments, including the results
reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes of customers, product distribution channels, geographic considerations (primarily U.S. versus non-U.S.) and regulatory environment
considerations. Refer to Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of the products and services by segment.      Results of the business segments essentially treat each segment as a stand-alone business. The management reporting process that derives these results allocates income and expense using various
methodologies as described below.      Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of a change in
classification of card fees on lending products, which impacts the selected income statement and statistical data presented herein for the USCS and ICS segments. This change does not impact the net interest yield on cardmember loans statistic, a
non-GAAP measure, for these segments.      As discussed more fully below, results are presented on a GAAP basis unless otherwise
stated. Refer to the  Glossary of Selected Terminology  for the definitions of certain key terms and related information appearing in the tables within this section.      TOTAL REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE      The Company allocates discount revenue and certain
other revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology. Segments earn discount revenue based on the proportion of merchant business generated by the segment s cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS and GCS segments, discount revenue
reflects the issuer component of the overall discount revenue; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue reflects the network and merchant component of the overall discount revenue. Total interest income and net card fees are directly attributable
to the segment in which they are reported.      PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES      The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported.      EXPENSES      Marketing and promotion expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual
expenses incurred, with the exception of brand advertising, which is primarily reflected in the GNMS and USCS segments. Rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred within each segment.
     Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, such as professional services, occupancy and equipment and
communications, reflect expenses incurred directly within each segment. In addition, expenses related to the Company s support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to each segment based on support service activities directly
attributable to the segment. Other overhead expenses, such as staff group support functions, are allocated to segments based on each segment s relative level of pretax income. Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis. Funding
costs are allocated based on segment funding requirements.      CAPITAL      Each business segment is allocated capital based on established business model operating requirements, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. Business model operating requirements include
capital needed to support operations and specific balance sheet items. The risk measures include considerations for credit, market and operational risk.      INCOME TAXES      Income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to each business segment based on
the effective tax rates applicable to various businesses that make up the segment.   
         41   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    U.S. CARD SERVICES       SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA       

#  
  denotes a variance greater than 100 percent.     
         42   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    U.S. CARD SERVICES       SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION       

*  
  Proprietary cards only.     

(a)  
  Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) one-year period segment income ($2.6 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.2 billion for 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively) by (ii) one-year average segment capital ($9.0 billion, $8.1 billion and $6.4 billion for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, is computed in the same manner as
return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, excludes from average segment capital average goodwill and other intangibles of $379 million, $425 million and $459 million as of
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company believes return on average tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business.     

(b)  
  Refer to  Selected Statistical Information  footnote (e) on page 22.     

(c)  
  Net interest yield on cardmember loans, adjusted net interest income, and adjusted average loans are non-GAAP measures. The Company believes adjusted net interest
income and adjusted average loans are useful to investors because they are components of net interest yield on cardmember loans, which provides a measure of profitability of the Company s cardmember loan portfolio.     
         43   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012   
  USCS segment income decreased $88 million or 3 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. USCS segment income increased $455 million or 20 percent in
2011 as compared to the prior year.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      Total revenues net of interest expense increased $975 million or 6 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily driven by higher discount revenue, increased net interest income, higher other
revenues and higher net card fees.      Discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues increased $665 million or 6 percent in
2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher discount revenue resulting from billed business growth, partially offset by higher contra-revenues primarily related to cash rebates tied to volume growth on cash-back rewards products.
Billed business increased 9 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily driven by 6 percent increase in average spending per proprietary basic cards-in-force and 3 percent higher cards-in-force.   
  Interest income increased $268 million or 5 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a 5 percent increase in
average cardmember loans and a slight increase in the net interest yield on cardmember loans.      Interest expense decreased $42
million or 5 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, reflecting a lower cost of funds, partially offset by higher average cardmember receivable and loan balances.      Total revenues net of interest expense increased $609 million or 4 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, due to higher discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues and a decrease in
interest expense, partially offset by a decrease in interest income.      Provisions for Losses   
  Provisions for losses increased $742 million or over 100 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting a smaller reserve release in
2012 than in 2011 due to the slowing pace of improved credit conditions. The provisions for losses increase was partially offset by lower net write-offs due to improved cardmember lending credit trends in the current period.   
  Provisions for losses decreased $904 million or 57 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, principally reflecting lower reserve
requirements driven by improving cardmember loan trends, partially offset by a higher charge card provision resulting from higher cardmember receivable balances and a higher net write-off rate.   
  Refer to the USCS Selected Statistical Information table for the lending and charge write-off rates for 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
  Expenses      Expenses increased $293 million
or 3 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, partially offset by lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses. Expenses included a
reengineering net charge of $29 million in 2012, a net benefit of $8 million in 2011 and a net charge of $55 million in 2010. Expenses increased $888 million or 9 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, due to increased marketing, promotion,
rewards and cardmember services expenses, and higher salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses.      Marketing,
promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $41 million or 1 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, due to lower marketing, promotion and rewards expenses, partially offset by higher cardmember services expenses. Marketing,
promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased $849 million or 15 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, due to higher rewards and cardmember services expenses.   
  Cardmember rewards expenses decreased $33 million or 1 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year due to a decrease in Membership
Rewards expense of $108 million offset by an increase in co-brand rewards expense of $75 million.      For 2012, Membership Rewards
expenses decreased $108 million as compared to the prior year as a result of a reduction in expenses related to a slower average URR growth rate (including the effect of enhancements to the U.S. URR estimation process of $317 million in 2012 and
$188 million in 2011) and a shift in the redemption mix which drove a favorable change in the WAC assumption, offset by higher expenses relating to an increase in new points earned. Co-brand rewards expenses increased $75 million primarily related
to higher spending volumes.      For 2011, Membership Rewards expenses increased $736 million as compared to the prior year as a
result of higher expenses related to an increase in new points earned, an increase in expenses related to a higher average URR growth rate (including the effects of enhancements to the U.S. URR estimation process of $188 million) and a shift in the
redemption mix resulting in a higher WAC assumption. Co-brand rewards expenses increased $211 million primarily related to higher spending volumes.      Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $334 million or 9 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily driven by higher other operating expenses related to
cardmember reimbursement costs as a result of internal and regulatory reviews of the Company s U.S. banking subsidiaries, an increase in expenses related to hedge ineffectiveness and higher restructuring charges. Salaries and employee benefits
and other operating expenses increased $39 million or 1 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting increased salary and employee benefits costs, partially offset by higher reengineering expense in the prior year.   
  Income Taxes      The tax rate in all periods
reflected the benefits from the resolution of certain prior years  tax items and the relationship of recurring permanent tax benefits to varying levels of pretax income.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES       SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA       
 
         45   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    INTERNATIONAL CARD SERVICES       SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION       

*  
  Proprietary cards only.     

(a)  
  Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) one-year period segment income ($634 million, $723 million and $537 million for 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively) by (ii) one-year average segment capital ($2.9 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.1 billion for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, is computed in the same manner as
return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, excludes from average segment capital average goodwill and other intangibles of $1.4 billion, $1.3 billion and $592 million as of
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company believes return on average tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business.     

(b)  
  Refer to  Selected Statistical Information  footnote (e) on page 22.     

(c)  
  Net interest yield on cardmember loans, adjusted net interest income and adjusted average loans are non-GAAP measures. The Company believes adjusted net interest income
and adjusted average loans are useful to investors because they are components of net interest yield on cardmember loans, which provides a measure of profitability of the Company s cardmember loan portfolio.     
         46   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012   
  ICS segment income decreased $89 million or 12 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. ICS segment income increased $186 million or 35 percent in
2011 as compared to the prior year.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      Total revenues net of interest expense increased $67 million or 1 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues, partially
offset by lower net interest income.      Discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues increased $91 million or 2 percent in
2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher cardmember spending and fee revenues related to Loyalty Partner, higher conversion revenue and higher discount revenue. Assuming no changes in foreign exchange rates, discount revenue, net
card fees and other revenues increased 5 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year.   3         Billed business increased 4 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year,
primarily reflecting a 2 percent increase in average spending per proprietary basic cards-in-force. Refer to the Consolidated Selected Statistical Information table on page 24 for additional information on billed business by region.   
  Interest income decreased $48 million or 4 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, reflecting a lower yield on cardmember loans.
     Interest expense decreased $24 million or 6 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, reflecting a lower cost of funds.
     Total revenues net of interest expense increased $596 million or 13 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily
due to higher discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues, partially offset by lower interest income.      Provisions for Losses
     Provisions for losses increased $62 million or 23 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily driven by higher cardmember lending
provisions due to lower reserve releases in the current period, partially offset by lower charge card provisions and lower cardmember lending net write-off rates.      Provisions for losses decreased $124 million or 32 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting lower reserve requirements due to improving cardmember loan and charge card credit
trends, partially offset by a larger charge card provision expense driven by higher average receivable balances.      Refer to the
ICS Selected Statistical Information table for the lending and charge write-off rates for 2012, 2011 and 2010.       

3    
  Refer to footnote 1 on page 25 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.        Expenses      Expenses increased $108 million or 3 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior
year, due to higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and higher salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses. Expenses in 2012, 2011 and 2010 included $63 million, $36 million and $19 million,
respectively, of net reengineering charges. Expenses increased $547 million or 15 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, due to higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and higher salaries and employee benefits
and other operating expenses.      Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased $70 million or 4
percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, driven by higher volume-related rewards costs and co-brand expenses and higher cardmember services expenses, partially offset by lower marketing and promotion expenses. Marketing, promotion, rewards and
cardmember services expenses increased $245 million or 15 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to greater volume-related rewards costs and co-brand expenses and the inclusion of the Loyalty Partner business.   
  Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $38 million or 2 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year,
primarily due to higher restructuring charges, partially offset by lower other operating expenses. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $302 million or 15 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, reflecting the
inclusion of Loyalty Partner expenses, as well as increased salary and employee benefits costs.      Income Taxes   
  The tax rate in all periods reflected the recurring permanent tax benefit related to the segment s ongoing funding activities outside the United
States, which is allocated to ICS under the Company s internal tax allocation process. The tax rates for 2012 and 2011 also reflected the allocated share of tax benefits related to the realization of certain foreign tax credits, and the tax
rate for 2010 reflected a benefit from the resolution of certain prior years  items. In addition, the tax rate in each of the periods reflected the impact of recurring permanent tax benefits on varying levels of pretax income.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    GLOBAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES       SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA       
    SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION       

*  
  Proprietary cards only.     

(a)  
  Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) one-year period segment income ($644 million, $738 million and $450 million for 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively) by (ii) one-year average segment capital ($3.6 billion for each of the years 2012, 2011 and 2010). Return on average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, is computed in the same manner as return on average segment
capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, excludes from average segment capital average goodwill and other intangibles of $1.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and $1.9 billion at both December 31,
2011 and 2010. The Company believes return on average tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business.     
         48   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012   
  GCS segment income decreased $94 million or 13 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. GCS segment income increased $288 million or 64 percent in
2011 as compared to the prior year.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      Total revenues net of interest expense increased $124 million or 3 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues.   
  Discount revenue, net card fees, and other revenues increased $115 million or 2 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily
due to higher discount revenue resulting from an increased level of cardmember spending, partially offset by lower travel commissions and fees and other revenues. Billed business increased 8 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily
driven by an 8 percent increase in average spending per proprietary basic cards-in-force. Billed business volume increased 11 percent within the United States and 3 percent outside the United States. Assuming no changes in foreign exchange rates,
billed business volume increased 7 percent outside the United States.   4         Net interest expense decreased $9 million or 4 percent in 2012 as compared to
the prior year, primarily driven by a lower cost of funds, partially offset by increased funding requirements due to higher average cardmember receivable balances.      Total revenues net of interest expense increased $498 million or 12 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher discount revenue, net card fees, and other revenues and higher
interest income, partially offset by higher interest expense.      Provisions for Losses   
  Provisions for losses increased $60 million or 79 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, reflecting a change in estimate for certain credit
reserves that resulted in higher reserve releases in 2011. Provisions for losses decreased $81 million or 52 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, driven by improved credit performance within the underlying cardmember receivable portfolio
and reserve releases. Refer to the GCS Selected Statistical Information table for the charge card net loss ratio as a percentage of charge volume.   

4    
  Refer to footnote 1 on page 25 relating to changes in foreign exchange rates.        Expenses      Expenses increased $179 million or 5 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior
year, due to higher salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses and higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses. Expenses in 2012, 2011 and 2010 included $172 million, $37 million and $32 million,
respectively, of net reengineering charges. Expenses increased $227 million or 7 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, due to higher marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses and increased salaries and employee benefits
and other operating expenses.      Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased $32 million or 6
percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to a $25 million charge related to a change in the U.S. Membership Rewards URR estimation process. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses increased $108 million or
25 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting higher volume-related rewards costs.      Salaries and
employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $147 million or 5 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily driven by higher restructuring charges and other operating expenses. Salaries and employee benefits and other
operating expenses increased $119 million or 4 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily driven by increased salary and employee benefits costs.      Income Taxes      The tax rates for 2012 and 2011 reflected the allocated share of tax benefits
related to the realization of certain foreign tax credits. The tax rate for 2012 also reflected the impact of a valuation allowance primarily from the restructuring charges associated with certain non-U.S. travel operations. In addition, the tax
rate for 2010 reflected an increase in the valuation allowance against deferred tax assets.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    GLOBAL NETWORK   MERCHANT SERVICES    
  SELECTED INCOME STATEMENT DATA       

#  
  denotes a variance greater than 100 percent.        SELECTED STATISTICAL INFORMATION       

(a)  
  Return on average segment capital is calculated by dividing (i) one-year period segment income ($1.4 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.0 billion for 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively) by (ii) one-year average segment capital ($2.1 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively). Return on average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, is computed in the same manner as
return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital, a non-GAAP measure, excludes from average segment capital average goodwill and other intangibles of $203 million, $209 million and $70 million as of
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company believes return on average tangible segment capital is a useful measure of the profitability of its business.     

(b)  
  Since the third quarter of 2010, for non-proprietary retail co-brand partners, Global Network Services metrics exclude cardmember accounts which have no out-of-store
spend activity during the prior 12-month period.     
         50   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012   
  GNMS segment income increased $150 million or 12 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. GNMS segment income increased $268 million or 26 percent
in 2011 as compared to the prior year.      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense      Total revenues net of interest expense increased $329 million or 7 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues and higher net
interest income.      Discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues increased $292 million or 6 percent in 2012 as compared to
the prior year. The increase reflects higher merchant-related revenues, driven by an 8 percent increase in global card billed business volumes, as well as higher GNS revenues.      Interest expense credit increased $19 million or 8 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, in line with higher merchant accounts payable, which are funded primarily through intercompany transfer
pricing agreements with card issuers.      Total revenues net of interest expense increased $637 million or 15 percent in 2011 as
compared to the prior year, due to higher discount revenue, net card fees and other revenues and a higher interest expense credit.   
  Provisions for Losses      Provisions for
losses decreased $1 million or 1 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year. Provisions for losses increased $14 million or 23 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher merchant-related debit balances.   
  Expenses      Expenses increased $90 million
or 3 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses, partially offset by lower marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses. Expenses in 2012, 2011
and 2010 included $31 million, $11 million and $18 million, respectively, of net reengineering charges. Expenses increased $233 million or 9 percent in 2011 as compared to the prior year, due to higher salaries and employee benefits and other
operating expenses.      Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses decreased $11 million or 1 percent in 2012
as compared to the prior year, reflecting lower marketing and promotion expenses. Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses were flat in 2011 as compared to the prior year.   
  Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $101 million or 5 percent in 2012 as compared to the prior year,
primarily due to higher professional services costs and increases in salary and employee benefits costs, partially offset by other operating expenses. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses increased $233 million or 12 percent
in 2011 as compared to the prior year, primarily due to increases in salary and employee benefits costs, greater third-party merchant sales force commissions and higher legal costs.       CORPORATE   OTHER       Corporate   Other had net after-tax expense of
$831 million, $535 million and $180 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net after-tax expense in 2012 reflected an increase in reengineering costs, partially offset by gains on sales of investment securities and the favorable effects of
revised estimates of the liability for uncashed international Travelers Cheques. Results in 2011 and 2010 reflected $186 million and $372 million of after-tax income related to the MasterCard litigation settlement, respectively, and $172 million of
after-tax income for both 2011 and 2010 related to the Visa litigation settlement. The Company no longer receives payments on the MasterCard and Visa litigation settlements. After-tax costs of $109 million, $49 million and $2 million for 2012, 2011
and 2010, respectively, were related to the Company s reengineering initiatives.      Net after-tax expense in 2011 reflected
various investment initiatives and expenses related to legal exposures, partially offset by higher global prepaid income.      Net
after-tax expense in 2010 reflected higher incentive compensation and benefit reinstatement-related expenses, and various investments in the Global Prepaid business and Enterprise Growth initiatives.   
  Results for all periods disclosed also included net interest expense related to maintaining the liquidity pool discussed in
 Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity   Liquidity Management  above, as well as interest expense related to other corporate indebtedness.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
    OTHER REPORTING MATTERS       ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS      Refer to the Recently Issued Accounting Standards section of Note 1
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      GLOSSARY OF SELECTED TERMINOLOGY   
   Adjusted average loans    Represents average cardmember loans excluding the impact of deferred card fees, net of direct
acquisition costs of cardmember loans and certain other immaterial items.       Adjusted net interest income   
Represents net interest income attributable to the Company s cardmember loans portfolio excluding the impact of interest expense and interest income not attributable to the Company s cardmember loan portfolio.   
   Asset securitizations    Asset securitization involves the transfer and sale of receivables or loans to a special-purpose
entity created for the securitization activity, typically a trust. The trust, in turn, issues securities, commonly referred to as asset-backed securities, that are secured by the transferred receivables or loans. The trust uses the proceeds from the
sale of such securities to pay the purchase price for the underlying receivables or loans. The receivables and loans of the Company s Charge and Lending Trusts being securitized are reported as assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance
Sheets, while the related securities issued to third-party investors are reported as long-term debt.       Average discount rate
   This calculation is designed to reflect pricing at merchants accepting general purpose American Express cards. It represents the percentage of billed business (both proprietary and GNS) retained by the Company from merchants it acquires,
prior to payments to third parties unrelated to merchant acceptance.       Basel III supplementary leverage ratio   
Refer to the Capital Strategy section under  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  for the definition .    
   Basic cards-in-force    Proprietary basic consumer cards-in-force includes basic cards issued to the primary account owner and
does not include additional supplemental cards issued on that account. Proprietary basic small business and corporate cards-in-force include basic and supplemental cards issued to employee cardmembers. Non-proprietary basic cards-in-force includes
cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements, except for supplemental cards and retail co-brand cardmember accounts which have no out-of-store spend activity during the prior 12-month period.   
   Billed business    Includes activities (including cash advances) related to proprietary cards, cards issued under network
partnership agreements (non-proprietary billed business), corporate payments and certain insurance fees charged on proprietary cards. In-store spend activity within retail co-brand portfolios in GNS, from which the Company earns no revenue, is not
included in non-proprietary billed business. Card billed business is reflected in the United States or outside the United States based on where the cardmember is domiciled.       Capital asset pricing model    Generates an appropriate discount rate using internal and external inputs to value future cash flows based on the time value of money and the price for bearing
uncertainty inherent in an investment.       Capital ratios    Represents the minimum standards established by the
regulatory agencies as a measure to determine whether the regulated entity has sufficient capital to absorb on- and off-balance sheet losses beyond current loss accrual estimates.   
   Card acquisition    Primarily represents the issuance of new cards to either new or existing cardmembers through marketing and
promotion efforts.       Cardmember    The individual holder of an issued American Express branded charge or credit card.
      Cardmember loans    Represents the outstanding amount due from cardmembers for charges made on their American
Express credit cards, as well as any interest charges and card-related fees. Cardmember loans also include balances with extended payment terms on certain American Express charge card products and are net of deferred card fees.   
   Cardmember receivables    Represents the outstanding amount due from cardmembers for charges made on their American Express
charge cards as well as any card-related fees.       Charge cards    Represents cards that generally carry no pre-set
spending limits and are primarily designed as a method of payment and not as a means of financing purchases. Charge cardmembers generally must pay the full amount billed each month. No finance charges are assessed on charge cards. Each charge card
transaction is authorized based on its likely economics reflecting a customer s most recent credit information and spend patterns. Some charge card accounts have an additional lending-on-charge feature that allows revolving certain balances.
      Credit cards    Represents cards that have a range of revolving payment terms, grace periods, and rate and fee
structures.       Discount revenue    Represents revenue earned from fees generally charged to merchants with whom the
Company has entered into a card acceptance agreement for processing cardmember transactions. The discount fee generally is deducted from the Company s payment reimbursing the merchant for cardmember purchases. Discount revenue is reduced by
payments made to third-party card issuing partners, cash-back reward costs, corporate incentive payments and other contra-revenue items.       Four-party network    A payment network, such as Visa or MasterCard, in which the card issuer and merchant acquirer are different entities and the network does not have direct relationships
with merchants or cardholders.       Interest expense    Interest expense includes interest incurred primarily to fund
cardmember loans, charge card product receivables, general corporate purposes, and liquidity needs, and is recognized as incurred. Interest expense is divided principally into two categories: (i) deposits, which primarily relates to interest
expense on deposits taken from customers and institutions and (ii) long-term debt, which primarily relates to   
         52   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   
interest expense on the Company s long-term financing and short-term borrowings, which primarily relates to interest expense on commercial paper, federal funds purchased, bank overdrafts and
other short-term borrowings.       Interest income    Interest income includes (i) interest on loans,
(ii) interest and dividends on investment securities and (iii) interest income on deposits with banks and others.   
  Interest on loans is assessed using the average daily balance method for owned loans. Unless the loan is classified as non-accrual,
interest is recognized based upon the principal amount outstanding in accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement until the outstanding balance is paid or written off.   
  Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily relates to the Company s performing fixed-income securities. Interest
income is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that the related investment security recognizes a constant rate of return on the outstanding
balance throughout its term. These amounts are recognized until these securities are in default or when it is likely that future interest payments will not be made as scheduled.   
  Interest income on deposits with banks and other is recognized as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in excess of
near-term funding requirements in interest-bearing time deposits, overnight sweep accounts, and other interest bearing demand and call accounts.       Merchant acquisition    Represents the signing of merchants to accept American Express-branded cards.       Net card fees    Represents the card membership fees earned during the period. These fees are recognized as revenue over the covered card membership period (typically one year), net of
provision for projected refunds for cancellation of card membership.       Net interest yield on cardmember loans    Net
interest yield on cardmember loans is computed by dividing adjusted net interest income by adjusted average loans, computed on an annualized basis. The calculation of net interest yield on cardmember loans includes interest that is deemed
uncollectible. For all presentations of net interest yield on cardmember loans, reserves and net write-offs related to uncollectible interest are recorded through provisions for losses   cardmember loans; therefore, such reserves and net
write-offs are not included in the net interest yield calculation.         Net loss ratio    Represents the ratio of
charge card write-offs consisting of principal (resulting from authorized and unauthorized transactions) and fee components, less recoveries, on cardmember receivables expressed as a percentage of gross amounts billed to cardmembers.   
   Net write-off rate   principal only    Represents the amount of cardmember loans or USCS cardmember receivables written
off consisting of principal (resulting from authorized transactions), less recoveries, as a percentage of the average loan balance or USCS average receivables during the period.   
   Net write-off rate   principal, interest and fees    Includes, in the calculation of the net write-off rate, amounts for
interest and fees in addition to principal for cardmember loans, and fees in addition to principal for cardmember receivables.   
   Operating expenses    Represents salaries and employee benefits, professional services, occupancy and equipment, communications
and other expenses.       Return on average equity    Calculated by dividing one-year period net income by one-year
average total shareholders  equity.       Return on average segment capital    Calculated by dividing one-year
period segment income by one-year average segment capital.       Return on average tangible segment capital    Computed
in the same manner as return on average segment capital except the computation of average tangible segment capital excludes from average segment capital average goodwill and other intangibles.   
   Risk-weighted assets    Refer to the Capital Strategy section under  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity 
for the definitions under Basel I and Basel III.       Segment capital    Represents the capital allocated to a segment
based upon specific business operational needs, risk measures, and regulatory capital requirements.       Stored value and
prepaid products    Includes Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products such as gift cheques and cards as well as reloadable Travelers Cheque cards. These products are sold as safe and convenient alternatives to currency for purchasing
goods and services.       Three-party network    A payment network, such as American Express, that acts as both the card
issuer and merchant acquirer.       Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio    Refer to the Capital Strategy section under
 Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  for the definitions under Basel I and Basel III.       Tier 1 leverage
ratio    Refer to the Capital Strategy section under  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  for the definitions under Basel I and Basel III.       Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio    Refer to the Capital Strategy section under  Consolidated Capital Resources and Liquidity  for the definitions under Basel I and Basel III.
      Total cards-in-force    Represents the number of cards that are issued and outstanding. Non-proprietary
cards-in-force includes all cards that are issued and outstanding under network partnership agreements, except for retail co-brand cardmember accounts which have no out-of-store spend activity during the prior 12-month period.     
   Total risk-based capital ratio    Refer to the Capital Strategy section under  Consolidated Capital Resources and
Liquidity  for the definition.       Travel sales    Represents the total dollar amount of travel transaction volume
for airline, hotel, car rental, and other travel arrangements made for consumers and corporate clients. The Company earns revenue on these transactions by charging a transaction or management fee.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          
   CAUTIONARY NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   
  This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, which are subject to risks and
uncertainties. The forward-looking statements, which address the Company s expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as  believe,   expect,   estimate, 
 anticipate,   optimistic,   intend,   plan,   aim,   will,   may,   should,   could,   would,   likely,  and similar expressions. Readers
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the following:       

the possibility of not achieving the expected timing and financial impact of the Company s restructuring plan and higher than expected employee
levels, which could be caused by factors such as the Company s ability to mitigate the operational and other risks posed by planned staff reductions, the Company s ability to develop and implement technology resources to realize cost
savings, underestimating hiring needs related to some of the job positions being eliminated and other employee needs not currently anticipated, lower than expected attrition rates and higher than expected redeployment rates;

the ability to hold annual operating expense growth to less than 3 percent for the next two years, which will depend in part on the Company s
ability to achieve the expected benefits of the Company s restructuring plan, which will be impacted by, among other things, the factors identified above, the Company s ability to balance the control and management of expenses and the
maintenance of competitive service levels for its customers, unanticipated increases in significant categories of operating expenses, such as consulting or professional fees, compliance or regulatory-related costs and technology costs, the payment
of monetary damages and penalties, disgorgement and restitution, the Company s decision to increase or decrease discretionary operating expenses depending on overall business performance, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates
on costs and results, and the level of acquisition activity and related expenses;          

uncertainty in the growth of operating expenses relative to the growth of revenues in 2013 and subsequent years and the possibility that the ratio of
total expenses to revenues will not migrate back towards historical levels over time, which will depend on (i) factors affecting revenue, such as, among other things, the growth of consumer and business spending on American Express cards,
higher travel commissions and fees, the growth of and/or higher yields on the loan portfolio and the development of new revenue opportunities and (ii) the success of the Company in containing operating expenses, which will be impacted by, among
other things, the factors identified in the preceding bullet, and in containing other expenses including the Company s ability to control and manage marketing and promotion expenses as described below as well as expenses related to increased
redemptions or other growth in rewards and cardmember services expenses. Further, in any period, the ability to grow revenue faster than operating expenses and the ratio of total expenses to revenues may be impacted by rapid decreases in revenues
that cannot be matched by decreases in operating expenses;          

uncertainty in the amount of marketing and promotion expenses relative to the revenues in 2013 and subsequent years, which will depend on
(i) factors affecting revenue, which will be impacted by, among other things, the factors identified in the preceding bullet and (ii) the Company s ability to control and manage marketing and promotion expenses as described below, the
availability of opportunities to invest at a higher level due to favorable business results and changes in macroeconomic conditions;          

changes in global economic and business conditions, including consumer and business spending, the availability and cost of credit, unemployment and
political conditions, all of which may significantly affect spending on American Express cards, delinquency rates, loan balances and other aspects of the Company s business and results of operations;      

changes in capital and credit market conditions, including sovereign creditworthiness, which may significantly affect the Company s ability to
meet its liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital, including changes in interest rates; changes in market conditions affecting the valuation of the Company s assets; or any reduction in the Company s credit ratings or those
of its subsidiaries, which could materially increase the cost and other terms of the Company s funding, restrict its access to the capital markets or result in contingent payments under contracts;      
         54   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          

litigation, such as class actions or proceedings brought by governmental and regulatory agencies (including the lawsuit filed against the Company by
the U.S. Department of Justice and certain state attorneys general), that could result in (i) the imposition of behavioral remedies against the Company or the Company voluntarily making certain changes to its business practices, the effects of
which in either case could have a material adverse impact on the Company s financial performance; (ii) the imposition of substantial monetary damages and penalties, disgorgement and restitution; and/or (iii) damage to the
Company s global reputation and brand;          

legal and regulatory developments wherever the Company does business, including legislative and regulatory reforms in the United States, such as
Dodd-Frank s stricter regulation of large, interconnected financial institutions; changes in requirements relating to securitization and the establishment of the CFPB, which could make fundamental changes to many of the Company s business
practices or materially affect its capital requirements, results of operations, or ability to pay dividends or repurchase its stock; actions and potential future actions by the FDIC and credit rating agencies applicable to securitization trusts,
which could impact the Company s ABS program; or potential changes to the taxation of the Company s businesses, the allowance of deductions for significant expenses, or the incidence of consumption taxes on the Company s transactions,
products and services;          

the ability of the Company to meet its on-average and over-time growth targets for revenues net of interest expense, earnings per share and return on
average equity, which will depend on factors such as the Company s success in implementing its strategies and initiatives, including growing the Company s share of overall spending, increasing merchant coverage, enhancing its pre-paid
offerings, expanding the GNS business and expense management, and on factors outside management s control including the willingness of cardmembers to sustain spending, the effectiveness of marketing and loyalty programs, regulatory and market
pressures on pricing, credit trends, currency and interest rate fluctuations, and changes in general economic conditions, such as GDP growth, consumer confidence, unemployment and the housing market;      

the Company s net interest yield on U.S. cardmember loans not remaining at historical levels, which will be influenced by, among other things, the
effects of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (including the regulations requiring the Company to periodically reevaluate annual percentage rate increases), interest rates, changes in consumer behavior that
affect loan balances, such as paydown rates, the credit quality of the Company s portfolio and the Company s cardmember acquisition strategy, product mix, cost of funds, credit actions, including line size and other adjustments to credit
availability, and potential pricing changes;          

changes in the substantial and increasing worldwide competition in the payments industry, including competitive pressure that may impact the prices the
Company charges merchants that accept the Company s cards and the success of marketing, promotion or rewards programs;          

changes in the financial condition and creditworthiness of the Company s business partners, such as bankruptcies, restructurings or
consolidations, involving merchants that represent a significant portion of the Company s business, such as the airline industry, or the Company s partners in GNS or financial institutions that the Company relies on for routine funding and
liquidity, which could materially affect the Company s financial condition or results of operations;          

the actual amount to be spent by the Company on investments in the business, including on marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services and
certain operating expenses, as well as the actual amount of resources arising from the restructuring plan the Company decides to invest in growth initiatives, which will be based in part on management s assessment of competitive opportunities
and the Company s performance and the ability to control and manage operating, infrastructure, advertising, promotion and rewards expenses as business expands or changes, including the changing behavior of cardmembers;
     
         55   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       2012 FINANCIAL REVIEW          

the Company s funding plan for the full year 2013 being implemented in a manner inconsistent with current expectations, which will depend on
various factors such as future business growth, the impact of global economic, political and other events on market capacity, demand for securities offered by the Company, regulatory changes, ability to securitize and sell receivables and the
performance of receivables previously sold in securitization transactions; and          

factors beyond the Company s control such as fire, power loss, disruptions in telecommunications, severe weather conditions, natural disasters,
terrorism, cyber attacks or fraud, which could significantly affect spending on American Express cards, delinquency rates, loan balances and travel-related spending or disrupt the Company s global network systems and ability to process
transactions.         A further description of these uncertainties and other risks can be found in the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the Company s other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

   AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING                MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING       The management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.      The Company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP in the United States of America, and includes those policies and procedures that:       

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the Company;          

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and          

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.         Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      The Company s management assessed the effectiveness of the
Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In making this assessment, the Company s management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework.        Based on management s assessment and those criteria, we
conclude that, as of December 31, 2012, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective.   
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Company s independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report appearing
on the following page on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012.   
         57   

Table of Contents  

   AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM                REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY:      In our opinion, the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and shareholders  equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of American Express Company
and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of
the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.         

New York, New York      February 22, 2013   
         58   

Table of Contents  

   AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY           INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

59   

Table of Contents  

     AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME    

(a)  
  Represents income from continuing operations or net income, as applicable, less earnings allocated to participating share awards and other items of $49 million, $58
million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        See Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         60   

Table of Contents  

     AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

     AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
  
         62   

Table of Contents  

     AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
  
         63   

Table of Contents  

     AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY    

(a)  
  As a result of the adoption of accounting standards governing consolidations and variable interest entities, shareholders  equity was reduced, primarily for the
after-tax effect of establishing the additional reserve for losses on cardmember loans and for reversing the unrealized gains on the retained subordinated securities.     
          See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

   AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS    
     NOTE 1   
    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES       THE COMPANY      American Express Company (the Company) is a global services company that
provides customers with access to products, insights and experiences that enrich lives and build business success. The Company s principal products and services are charge and credit payment card products and travel-related services offered to
consumers and businesses around the world. The Company also focuses on generating alternative sources of revenue on a global basis in areas such as online and mobile payments and fee-based services. The Company s various products and services
are sold globally to diverse customer groups, including consumers, small businesses, mid-sized companies and large corporations. These products and services are sold through various channels, including direct mail, online applications, targeted
direct and third-party sales forces and direct response advertising.      PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION   
  The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). All significant
intercompany transactions are eliminated.      The Company consolidates all entities in which the Company holds a  controlling
financial interest.  For voting interest entities, the Company is considered to hold a controlling financial interest when the Company is able to exercise control over the investees  operating and financial decisions. For variable interest
entities (VIEs), the Company is considered to hold a controlling financial interest when it is determined to be the primary beneficiary. A primary beneficiary is a party that has both: (1) the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most
significantly impact that entity s economic performance, and (2) the obligation to absorb losses, or the right to receive benefits, from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The determination of whether an entity is a
VIE is based on the amount and characteristics of the entity s equity.      Entities in which the Company s voting
interest in common equity does not provide the Company with control, but allows the Company to exert significant influence over their financial and operating decisions, are accounted for under the equity method. All other investments in equity
securities, to the extent that they are not considered marketable securities, are accounted for under the cost method.      FOREIGN CURRENCY
     Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars based upon exchange rates prevailing at the end of
each year. The resulting translation adjustments, along with any related qualifying hedge and tax effects, are included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (AOCI), a component of shareholders  equity. Translation adjustments,
including qualifying hedge and tax effects, are reclassified to earnings upon the sale or substantial liquidation of investments in foreign operations. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average month-end exchange rates during the year.
Gains and losses related to transactions in a currency other than the functional currency, including operations outside the United States where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, are reported net in the Company s Consolidated
Statements of Income, in other non-interest revenue, interest income, interest expense, or other, net expense, depending on the nature of the activity. Net foreign currency transaction gains amounted to approximately $120 million, $145 million
and $138 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      AMOUNTS BASED ON ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS   
  Accounting estimates are an integral part of the Consolidated Financial Statements. These estimates are based, in part, on management s assumptions
concerning future events. Among the more significant assumptions are those that relate to reserves for cardmember losses relating to loans and charge card receivables, proprietary point liability for Membership Rewards costs, fair value measurement,
goodwill and income taxes. These accounting estimates reflect the best judgment of management, but actual results could differ.      TOTAL
REVENUES NET OF INTEREST EXPENSE      Discount Revenue      Discount revenue represents fees generally charged to merchants with which the Company, or its GNS partners, has entered into card acceptance agreements for facilitating transactions between the merchants
and the Company s cardmembers. The discount generally is deducted from the payment to the merchant and recorded as discount revenue at the time the charge is captured.      Net Card Fees      Card fees, net of direct card acquisition costs and a reserve for projected
membership cancellations, are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the 12-month card membership period as Net Card Fees in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The unamortized net card fee balance is reported net in Other
Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 11).      Travel Commissions and Fees   
  The Company earns travel commissions and fees by charging clients transaction or management fees for selling and arranging travel and for travel
management services. Client transaction fee revenue is recognized at the time the client books the travel arrangements. Travel management services revenue is recognized over the contractual term of the agreement. The Company s travel suppliers
(e.g., airlines, hotels and car rental companies)   
         65   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   
pay commissions and fees on tickets issued, sales and other services based on contractual agreements. Commissions and fees from travel suppliers are generally recognized at the time a ticket is
purchased or over the term of the contract. Commissions and fees that are based on services rendered (e.g., hotel stays and car rentals) are recognized based on usage.      Other Commissions and Fees      Other commissions and fees include foreign currency conversion
fees, delinquency fees, service fees and other card related assessments, which are recognized primarily in the period in which they are charged to the cardmember (refer to Note 19). Also included are fees related to the Company s Membership
Rewards program, which are deferred and recognized over the period covered by the fee. The unamortized Membership Rewards fee balance is included in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets (refer to Note 11).   
  Contra-revenue      The Company regularly
makes payments through contractual arrangements with merchants, corporate payments clients, cardmembers and certain other customers. Payments to such customers, including cash rebates paid to cardmembers, are generally classified as contra-revenue
unless a specifically identifiable benefit (e.g., goods or services) is received by the Company or its cardmembers in consideration for that payment and the fair value of such benefit is determinable and measurable. If no such benefit is identified,
then the entire payment is classified as contra-revenue and included in the Consolidated Statements of Income in the line item where the related transaction revenues are recorded (e.g., discount revenue, travel commissions and fees and other
commissions and fees). If such a benefit is identified, then the payment is classified as expense up to the estimated fair value of the benefit.      Interest Income      Interest on cardmember loans is assessed using the average daily balance
method. Unless the loan is classified as non-accrual, interest is recognized based upon the outstanding balance, in accordance with the terms of the applicable account agreement, until the outstanding balance is paid or written off.   
  Interest and dividends on investment securities primarily relates to the Company s performing fixed-income securities. Interest
income is accrued as earned using the effective interest method, which adjusts the yield for security premiums and discounts, fees and other payments, so that a constant rate of return is recognized on the investment security s outstanding
balance. Amounts are recognized until such time as a security is in default or when it is likely that future interest payments will not be received as scheduled.      Interest on deposits with banks and other is recognized as earned, and primarily relates to the placement of cash in interest-bearing time deposits, overnight sweep accounts, and other interest-bearing
demand and call accounts.      Interest Expense      Interest expense includes interest incurred primarily to fund cardmember loans, charge card product receivables, general corporate purposes, and liquidity needs, and is recognized as incurred. Interest
expense is divided principally into two categories: (i) deposits, which primarily relates to interest expense on deposits taken from customers and institutions, and (ii) long-term debt and other, which primarily relates to interest expense
on the Company s long-term financing and short-term borrowings, and the realized impact of derivatives hedging interest rate risk.   
  BALANCE SHEET      Cash and Cash
Equivalents      Cash and cash equivalents include cash and amounts due from banks, interest-bearing bank balances, including securities purchased
under resale agreements, and other highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.      Premises and Equipment
     Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Costs incurred during
construction are capitalized and are depreciated once an asset is placed in service. Depreciation is generally computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of assets, which range from 3 to 10 years for equipment, furniture
and building improvements. Premises are depreciated based upon their estimated useful life at the acquisition date, which generally ranges from 30 to 50 years.      Leasehold improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility or the economic life of the improvement, which ranges from 5 to 10 years.
The Company maintains operating leases worldwide for facilities and equipment. Rent expense for facility leases is recognized ratably over the lease term, and includes adjustments for rent concessions, rent escalations and leasehold improvement
allowances. The Company recognizes lease restoration obligations at the fair value of the restoration liabilities when incurred, and amortizes the restoration assets over the lease term.   
  The Company capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the software is ready
for its intended use, these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the software s estimated useful life, generally 5 years.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   OTHER SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES      The following table identifies the Company s other significant accounting policies, the Note and page where the Note can be found.   

Significant Accounting
Policy    
      
   Note Number   

Note Title    
      
   Page   

Fair Value Measurements   

Note 3  

Fair Values   

Page 68  

Accounts Receivable   

Note 4  

Accounts Receivable and Loans   

Page 72  

Loans   

Note 4  

Accounts Receivable and Loans   

Page 72  

Reserves for Losses   

Note 5  

Reserves for Losses   

Page 77  

Investment Securities   

Note 6  

Investment Securities   

Page 79  

Asset Securitizations   

Note 7  

Asset Securitizations   

Page 80  

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets   

Note 8  

Other Assets   

Page 81  

Membership Rewards   

Note 11  

Other Liabilities   

Page 87  

Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities   

Note 12  

Derivatives and Hedging Activities   

Page 87  

Income Taxes   

Note 17  

Income Taxes   

Page 95  

Stock-based Compensation   

Note 20  

Stock Plans   

Page 98  

Retirement Plans   

Note 21  

Retirement Plans   

Page 100  

Regulatory Matters and Capital Adequacy   

Note 23  

Regulatory Matters and Capital Adequacy   

Page 106  

Legal Contingencies   

Note 24  

Commitments and Contingencies   

Page 107  

Reportable Operating Segments   

Note 25  

Reportable Operating Segments and Geographic Operations   

Page 108  
       
        CLASSIFICATION OF VARIOUS ITEMS   
  Beginning the first quarter of 2012, the Company revised the income statement reporting of annual membership card fees on lending products, increasing net
card fees and reducing interest on loans. Corresponding amounts presented in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.      Certain other reclassifications of prior period amounts have been made to conform to the current period presentation. The card fees revision previously discussed and these other reclassifications did not
have a material impact on the Company s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 2   
    ACQUISITIONS       On
March 1, 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of a controlling interest in Loyalty Partner, a leading marketing services company that operates loyalty programs in Germany, Poland, India and Mexico. Loyalty Partner also provides market
analysis, operating platforms and consulting services that help merchants grow their businesses. Total consideration was $616 million. The Company has an option to acquire the remaining noncontrolling equity interest (NCI) over a three-year period
beginning at the end of 2013 at a price based on business performance, which had an estimated fair value of $148 million at the acquisition date.      In 2010, the Company purchased Accertify and Revolution Money for a total consideration of $151 million and $305 million, respectively. Accertify is an online fraud solution provider and Revolution Money,
which was subsequently rebranded by the Company as Serve, is a provider of secure person-to-person payment services through an internet-based platform.      These acquisitions did not have a significant impact on either the Company s consolidated results of operations or the segments in which they are reflected for the years ended December 31, 2012,
2011 and 2010.      The following table summarizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for these acquisitions as of the
acquisition dates:       

(a)  
  The final purchase price allocation was completed in 2012. The above amounts do not differ significantly from the estimates at the acquisition date.

(b)  
  Included in Corporate   Other.     
     NOTE 3   
    FAIR VALUES    
  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date, based on the Company s principal or, in the absence of a principal, most advantageous market for the specific asset or liability.      GAAP provides for a three-level hierarchy of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value, defined as follows:       

Level 1   Inputs that are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the entity can access.

Level 2   Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly,
for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, including:          

Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets      

Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active      

Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability      

Inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means      

Level 3   Inputs that are unobservable and reflect the Company s own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in
pricing the asset or liability based on the best information available in the circumstances (e.g., internally derived assumptions surrounding the timing and amount of expected cash flows). The Company did not measure any financial instruments
presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value on a recurring basis using significantly unobservable inputs (Level 3) during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, although the disclosed fair value of certain assets that are
not carried at fair value, as presented later in this Note, are classified within Level 3.      
         68   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The Company monitors the market conditions and evaluates the fair value hierarchy levels at least
quarterly. For any transfers in and out of the levels of the fair value hierarchy, the Company elects to disclose the fair value measurement at the beginning of the reporting period during which the transfer occurred.   
      Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Carried at Fair Value   
  The following table summarizes the Company s financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, categorized by
GAAP s valuation hierarchy (as described in the preceding paragraphs), as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Refer to Note 6 for the fair values of investment securities and to Note 12 for the fair values of derivative assets and liabilities, both on a further disaggregated
basis.     

(b)  
  The Level 1 amounts represent the Company s holdings of U.S. Government treasury obligations.     
      VALUATION TECHNIQUES USED IN THE FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CARRIED AT FAIR VALUE      For the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
(categorized in the valuation hierarchy table above) the Company applies the following valuation techniques:      Investment Securities

When available, quoted prices of identical investment securities in active markets are used to determine fair value. Such investment securities are
classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.          

When quoted prices of identical investment securities in active markets are not available, the fair values for the Company s investment securities
are obtained primarily from pricing services engaged by the Company, and the Company receives one price for each security. The fair values provided by the pricing services are estimated using pricing models, where the inputs to those models are
based on observable market inputs or recent trades of similar securities. Such investment securities are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The inputs to the valuation techniques applied by the pricing services vary depending on
the type of security being priced but are typically benchmark yields, benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds, reported trades and broker-dealer quotes, all with reasonable levels of transparency. The pricing services did not
apply any adjustments to the pricing models used. In addition, the Company did not apply any adjustments to prices received from the pricing services.         The Company reaffirms its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its pricing services at least annually. In addition, the Company corroborates the prices provided by its pricing services for
reasonableness by comparing the prices from the respective pricing services to valuations obtained from different pricing sources as well as comparing prices to the sale prices received from sold securities at least quarterly. In instances where
price discrepancies are identified between different pricing sources, the Company evaluates such discrepancies to ensure that the prices used for its valuation represent the fair value of the underlying investment securities. Refer to Note 6 for
additional fair value information.      Derivative Financial Instruments      The fair value of the Company s derivative financial instruments is estimated by a third-party valuation service that uses proprietary pricing models or by internal pricing models, where the inputs
to those models are readily observable from actively quoted markets. The pricing models used are consistently applied and reflect the contractual terms of the derivatives as described below. The Company reaffirms its understanding of the valuation
techniques used by the third-party valuation service at least annually. The Company s derivative instruments are classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.      The fair value of the Company s interest rate swaps is determined based on a discounted cash flow method using the following significant inputs: the contractual terms of the swap such as the notional
amount, fixed coupon rate, floating coupon rate (based on interbank rates consistent with the frequency and currency of the interest cash flows) and tenor, as well as discount rates consistent with the underlying economic factors of the currency in
which the cash flows are denominated.   
         69   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The fair value of the Company s total return contract, which serves as a hedge
against the Hong Kong dollar (HKD) change in fair value associated with the Company s investment in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), is determined based on a discounted cash flow method using the following significant inputs
as of the valuation date: number of shares of the Company s underlying ICBC investment, the quoted market price of the shares in HKD and the monthly settlement terms of the contract inclusive of price and tenor.   
  The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts is determined based on a discounted cash flow method using the following significant
inputs: the contractual terms of the forward contracts such as the notional amount, maturity dates and contract rate, as well as relevant foreign currency forward curves, and discount rates consistent with the underlying economic factors of the
currency in which the cash flows are denominated.      Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market parameters, such
as a benchmark curve, used to value derivatives are not indicative of the credit quality of the Company or its counterparties. The Company considers the counterparty credit risk by applying an observable forecasted default rate to the current
exposure. Refer to Note 12 for additional fair value information.       
  Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Carried at Other Than Fair Value      The following table discloses the estimated fair value for the Company s financial assets and financial liabilities that are not required to be carried at fair value on a recurring basis, as of
December 31, 2012 and 2011:       

Carrying Value   

Corresponding Fair Value Amount   

2012   (Billions)    

Total  

Level 1  

Level 2  

Level 3  

Financial Assets:    

Financial assets for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value   

Cash and cash equivalents   
      
   $   
   22   

$   
   22   

$   
   21   

$           
   1           
       (a)        
     
   $   

Other financial assets (b)    
      
   $   
   47   

$   
   47   

$   

$   
   47   

$   

Financial assets carried at other than fair value   

Loans, net   
      
   $   
   64   

$           
   65           
       (c)        
     
   $   

$   

$   
   65   

Financial Liabilities:    

Financial liabilities for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value   
      
   $   
   55   

$   
   55   

$   

$   
   55   

$   

Financial liabilities carried at other than fair value   

Certificates of deposit (d)    
      
   $   
   10   

$   
   10   

$   

$   
   10   

$   

Long-term debt   
      
   $   
   59   

$     
      
   62           
       (c)

$   

$   
   62   

$   

2011  (Billions)    
      
  Carrying Value  

Fair   Value  

Financial Assets:    

Financial assets for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value   

Cash and cash equivalents   
      
  $  
  25  

$  
  25  

Other financial assets (b)    
      
  $  
  45  

$  
  45  

Financial assets carried at other than fair value   

Loans, net   
      
  $  
  61  

$    
  62    
   (c)    

Financial Liabilities:    

Financial liabilities for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value   
      
  $  
  51  

$  
  51  

Financial liabilities carried at other than fair value   

Certificates of deposit (d)    
      
  $  
  12  

$  
  12  

Long-term debt   
      
  $  
  59  

$    
  62    
   (c)    

(a)  
  Reflects time deposits.     

(b)  
  Includes accounts receivables (including fair values of cardmember receivables of $8.0 billion held by consolidated VIEs as of December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively), restricted cash and other miscellaneous assets.     

(d)  
  Presented as a component of customer deposits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.     
         70   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The fair values of these financial instruments are estimates based upon the market conditions and
perceived risks as of December 31, 2012, and require management judgment. These figures may not be indicative of their future fair values. The fair value of the Company cannot be reliably estimated by aggregating the amounts presented.
     VALUATION TECHNIQUES USED IN THE FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE
     For the financial assets and liabilities that are not required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis (categorized in the valuation
hierarchy table above) the Company applies the following valuation techniques to measure fair value:      FINANCIAL ASSETS FOR WHICH
CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR VALUE      Financial assets for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value include cash and
cash equivalents, cardmember receivables, accrued interest and certain other assets. For these assets, the carrying values approximate fair value because they are short term in duration, have no defined maturity or have a market-based interest rate.
     FINANCIAL ASSETS CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE      Loans      Loans are recorded at historical cost, less reserves, on the Consolidated Balance
Sheets. In estimating the fair value for the Company s loans the Company uses a discounted cash flow model. Due to the lack of a comparable whole loan sales market for similar credit card receivables and a lack of observable pricing inputs
thereof, the Company uses various inputs derived from an equivalent securitization market to estimate fair value. Such inputs include projected income (inclusive of future interest payments and late fee revenue), estimated pay-down rates, discount
rates and relevant credit costs.      FINANCIAL LIABILITIES FOR WHICH CARRYING VALUES EQUAL OR APPROXIMATE FAIR VALUE   
  Financial liabilities for which carrying values equal or approximate fair value include accrued interest, customer deposits (excluding certificates of
deposit, which are described further below), Travelers Cheques outstanding, accounts payable, short-term borrowings and certain other liabilities for which the carrying values approximate fair value because they are short term in duration, have no
defined maturity or have a market-based interest rate.      FINANCIAL LIABILITIES CARRIED AT OTHER THAN FAIR VALUE   
  Certificates of Deposit      Certificates of
deposit (CDs) are recorded at their historical issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology based on the future cash flows and the discount rate that reflects the Company s
current rates for similar types of CDs within similar markets.      Long-term Debt      Long-term debt is recorded at historical issuance cost on the Consolidated Balance Sheets adjusted for the impact of fair value hedge accounting on certain fixed-rate notes and current translation rates
for foreign-denominated debt. The fair value of the Company s long-term debt is measured using quoted offer prices when quoted market prices are available. If quoted market prices are not available, the fair value is determined by discounting
the future cash flows of each instrument at rates currently observed in publicly traded debt markets for debt of similar terms and credit risk. For long-term debt, where there are no rates currently observable in publicly traded debt markets of
similar terms and comparable credit risk, the Company uses market interest rates and adjusts those rates for necessary risks, including its own credit risk. In determining an appropriate spread to reflect its credit standing, the Company considers
credit default swap spreads, bond yields of other long-term debt offered by the Company, and interest rates currently offered to the Company for similar debt instruments of comparable maturities.   
  NONRECURRING FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS      The
Company did not have any material assets that were measured at fair value for impairment on a nonrecurring basis during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 4   
    ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND LOANS       As described below, the Company s charge and lending payment card products result in the generation of cardmember receivables and cardmember loans, respectively.   
  CARDMEMBER AND OTHER RECEIVABLES   
  Cardmember receivables, representing amounts due from charge payment card product customers, are recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a
point-of-sale transaction with a merchant. Each charge card transaction is authorized based on its likely economics reflecting a cardmember s most recent credit information and spend patterns. Additionally, global spend limits are established
to limit the maximum exposure for the Company.      Charge card customers generally must pay the full amount billed each month.
     Cardmember receivable balances are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for losses (refer to Note 5),
and include principal and any related accrued fees.      Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:   

(a)  
  Includes $7.5 billion of gross cardmember receivables available to settle obligations of a consolidated VIE as of both December 31, 2012 and 2011.

(c)  
  Includes receivables primarily related to the Company s International Currency Card portfolios.     

(e)  
  Other receivables primarily represent amounts related to (i) purchased joint venture receivables, (ii) certain merchants for billed discount revenue,
(iii) the Company s travel customers and suppliers, and (iv) other receivables due to the Company in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2011, other receivables also included investments that matured on
December 31, 2011, but which did not settle until January 3, 2012. Other receivables are presented net of reserves for losses of $86 million and $102 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.     
  CARDMEMBER AND OTHER LOANS      Cardmember
loans, representing amounts due from lending payment card product customers, are recorded at the time a cardmember enters into a point-of-sale transaction with a merchant or when a charge card customer enters into an extended payment arrangement
with the Company. The Company s lending portfolios primarily include revolving loans to cardmembers obtained through either their credit card accounts or the lending on charge feature of their charge card accounts. These loans have a range of
terms such as credit limits, interest rates, fees and payment structures, which can be revised over time based on new information about cardmembers and in accordance with applicable regulations and the respective product s terms and conditions.
Cardmembers holding revolving loans are typically required to make monthly payments based on pre-established amounts. The amounts that cardmembers choose to revolve are subject to finance charges.   
  Cardmember loans are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets net of reserves for losses (refer to Note 5), and include principal,
accrued interest and fees receivable. The Company s policy generally is to cease accruing interest on a cardmember loan at the time the account is written off, and establish reserves for interest that the Company believes will not be collected.
     Loans as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 consisted of:       

(b)  
  Other loans primarily represent loans to merchants and a store card loan portfolio whose billed business is not processed on the Company s network. Other loans are
presented net of reserves for losses of $20 million and $18 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.           
         72   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   CARDMEMBER LOANS AND CARDMEMBER RECEIVABLES AGING   
  Generally, a cardmember account is considered past due if payment is not received within 30 days after the billing statement date. The following table
represents the aging of cardmember loans and receivables as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:       

(a)  
  For cardmember receivables in International Card Services (ICS) and Global Commercial Services (GCS), delinquency data is tracked based on days past billing status
rather than days past due. A cardmember account is considered 90 days past billing if payment has not been received within 90 days of the cardmember s billing statement date. In addition, if the Company initiates collection procedures on an
account prior to the account becoming 90 days past billing the associated cardmember receivable balance is considered as 90 days past billing. These amounts are shown above as 90+ Days Past Due for presentation purposes.     

(b)  
  Historically, data for periods prior to 90 days past billing are not available due to financial reporting system constraints. Therefore, it has not been relied upon for
risk management purposes. The balances that are current to 89 days past due can be derived as the difference between the Total and the 90+ Days Past Due balances.     
         73   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   CREDIT QUALITY INDICATORS FOR CARDMEMBER LOANS AND RECEIVABLES   
  The following tables present the key credit quality indicators as of or for the years ended December 31:   

(a)  
  The Company presents a net write-off rate based on principal losses only (i.e., excluding interest and/or fees) to be consistent with industry convention. In addition,
because the Company s practice is to include uncollectible interest and/or fees as part of its total provision for losses, a net write-off rate including principal, interest and/or fees is also presented.     
  Refer to Note 5 for additional indicators, including external environmental factors, management considers in its monthly evaluation process for reserves
for losses.          IMPAIRED CARDMEMBER LOANS AND RECEIVABLES   
  Impaired loans and receivables are defined by GAAP as individual larger balance or homogeneous pools of smaller balance restructured loans and receivables
for which it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loan and receivable agreement. The Company considers impaired loans and receivables to include: (i) loans
over 90 days past due still accruing interest, (ii) non-accrual loans and (iii) loans and receivables modified as troubled debt restructurings (TDRs).      The Company may modify, through various company sponsored programs, cardmember loans and receivables in instances where the cardmember is experiencing financial difficulty to minimize losses while
providing cardmembers with temporary or permanent financial relief. The Company has classified cardmember loans and receivables in these modification programs as TDRs. Such modifications to the loans and receivables may include (i) reducing the
interest rate (as low as zero percent, in which case the loan is characterized as non-accrual in the Company s TDR disclosures), (ii) reducing the outstanding balance (in the event of a settlement), (iii) suspending delinquency fees
until the cardmember exits the modification program and (iv) placing the cardmember on a fixed payment plan not to exceed 60 months. Upon entering the modification program, the cardmember s ability to make future purchases is either
cancelled, or in certain cases suspended until the cardmember successfully exits the modification program. In accordance with the modification agreement with the cardmember, loans revert back to the original contractual terms (including the
contractual interest rate) when the cardmember exits the modification program, either (i) when all payments have been made in accordance with the modification agreement or (ii) the cardmember defaults out of the modification program. In
either case, the Company establishes a reserve for cardmember interest charges considered to be uncollectible.      The performance
of a loan or a receivable modified as a TDR is closely monitored to understand its impact on the Company s reserve for losses. Though the ultimate success of modification programs remains uncertain, the Company believes the programs improve the
cumulative loss performance of such loans and receivables.      Reserves for cardmember loans and receivables modified as TDRs are
determined by the difference between the cash flows expected to be received from the cardmember (taking into consideration the probability of subsequent defaults), discounted at the original effective interest rates, and the carrying value of the
cardmember loan or receivable balance. The Company determines the original effective interest rate as the interest rate in effect prior to the imposition of any penalty interest rate. All changes in the impairment measurement, including the
component due to the passage of time, are included in the provision for losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The following table provides additional information with respect to the Company s impaired
cardmember loans and receivables, which are not significant for ICS and GCS, as of December 31:       

(a)  
  The Company s policy is generally to accrue interest through the date of write-off (at 180 days past due). The Company establishes reserves for interest that the
Company believes will not be collected. Excludes loans modified as a TDR.     

(b)  
  Non-accrual loans not in modification programs include certain cardmember loans placed with outside collection agencies for which the Company has ceased accruing
interest. The Company s policy is generally not to resume the accrual of interest on these loans. Payments received are applied against the recorded loan balance. Interest income is recognized on a cash basis for any payments received after the
loan balance has been paid in full. Excludes loans modified as a TDR.     

(d)  
  Unpaid principal balance consists of cardmember charges billed and excludes other amounts charged directly by the Company such as interest and fees.

(e)  
  Represents the reserve for losses for TDRs, which are evaluated separately for impairment. The Company records a reserve for losses for all impaired loans. Refer to
Cardmember Loans Evaluated Separately and Collectively for Impairment in Note 5 for further discussion of the reserve for losses on loans over 90 days past due and accruing interest and non-accrual loans, which are evaluated collectively for
impairment.     
         75   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The following table provides information with respect to the Company s interest income recognized
and average balances of impaired cardmember loans and receivables, which are not significant for ICS and GCS, for the years ended December 31:       
     
    CARDMEMBER LOANS AND RECEIVABLES MODIFIED AS TDRS      The following table provides additional information with respect to the cardmember loans and receivables modified as TDRs, which are not significant for ICS, for the years ended December 31:

(a)  
  Includes principal and accrued interest.     

(b)  
  The difference between the pre- and post-modification outstanding balances is attributable to amounts charged off for cardmember loans and receivables being resolved
through the Company s short-term settlement programs.        As described previously, the Company s cardmember loans and
receivables modification programs may include (i) reducing the interest rate, (ii) reducing the outstanding balance, (iii) suspending delinquency fees and (iv) placing the cardmember on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60
months. Upon entering the modification program, the cardmember s ability to make future purchases is either cancelled, or in certain cases suspended until successfully exiting the modification program.   
  The Company has evaluated the primary financial effects of the impact of the changes to an account upon modification as follows:   

Interest Rate Reduction: For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the average interest rate reduction was 12 percentage points and 11
percentage points, respectively. None of these interest rate reductions had a significant impact on interest on loans in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company does not offer interest rate reduction programs for U.S. Card Services (USCS)
cardmember receivables as these receivables are non-interest bearing.          

Outstanding Balance Reduction: The table above presents the financial effects to the Company as a result of reducing the outstanding balance for
short-term settlement programs. The difference between the pre- and post-modification outstanding balances represents the amount that either has been written off or will be written off upon successful completion of the settlement program.

Payment Term Extension: For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the average payment term extension was approximately 13 months and 15
months, respectively, for USCS cardmember receivables. For USCS cardmember loans, there have been no payment term extensions.      
         76   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The following table provides information for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, with
respect to the cardmember loans and receivables modified as TDRs that subsequently defaulted within 12 months of modification. A cardmember will default from a modification program after one and up to three consecutive missed payments, depending on
the terms of the modification program. The defaulted ICS cardmember loan modifications were not significant.       

2012     
   (Accounts in thousands,       Dollars in
millions)    
      
  Number of Accounts  

Aggregated Outstanding Balances Upon Default (a)   

Troubled Debt Restructurings That Subsequently Defaulted:    

U.S. Card Services   Cardmember Loans   

23   

$   
   182   

U.S. Card Services   Cardmember Receivables   

1   

37   

Total   

24   

$   
   219   

2011    
   (Accounts in thousands,       Dollars in
millions)    
      
  Number of Accounts  

Aggregated Outstanding Balances Upon Default (a)   

Troubled Debt Restructurings That Subsequently Defaulted:    

U.S. Card Services   Cardmember Loans   

46   

$   
   343   

U.S. Card Services   Cardmember Receivables   

6   

45   

Total   

52   

$   
   388   

(a)  
  The outstanding balance includes principal and accrued interest.     
     NOTE 5   
    RESERVES FOR LOSSES       Reserves for losses relating to cardmember loans and receivables represent management s best estimate of the probable inherent losses in the Company s outstanding portfolio of loans and
receivables, as of the balance sheet date. Management s evaluation process requires certain estimates and judgments.   
  Reserves for losses are primarily based upon statistical models that analyze portfolio performance and reflect management s judgment
regarding overall reserve adequacy. The models take into account several factors, including loss migration rates and average losses and recoveries over an appropriate historical period. Management considers whether to adjust the models for specific
factors such as increased risk in certain portfolios, impact of risk management initiatives on portfolio performance and concentration of credit risk based on factors such as vintage, industry or geographic regions. In addition, management may
increase or decrease the reserves for losses on cardmember loans for other external environmental factors, including various indicators related to employment, spend, sentiment, housing and credit, as well as the legal and regulatory environment.
Generally, due to the short-term nature of cardmember receivables, the impact of additional external factors on the probable losses inherent within the cardmember receivables portfolio is not significant. As part of this evaluation process,
management also considers various reserve coverage metrics, such as reserves as a percentage of past due amounts, reserves as a percentage of cardmember receivables or loans and net write-off coverage.   
  Cardmember loans and receivables balances are written off when management considers amounts to be uncollectible, which is generally
determined by the number of days past due and is typically no later than 180 days. Cardmember loans and receivables in bankruptcy or owed by deceased individuals are written off upon notification and recoveries are recognized as they are collected.
     Changes in Cardmember Receivables Reserve for Losses      The following table presents changes in the cardmember receivables reserve for losses for the years ended December 31:   

(a)  
  Provisions for principal (resulting from authorized transactions) and fee reserve components.     

(b)  
  Provisions for unauthorized transactions.     
 
    Cardmember Receivables Evaluated Individually and Collectively for Impairment
     The following table presents cardmember receivables evaluated individually and collectively for impairment and related reserves as of
December 31:       

(a)  
  Represents receivables modified in a TDR and related reserves. Refer to the Impaired Loans and Receivables discussion in Note 4 for further information.
    
         77   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Changes in Cardmember Loans Reserve for Losses   
  The following table presents changes in the cardmember loans reserve for losses for the years ended December 31:   

(a)  
  Represents the establishment of cardmember reserves for losses for cardmember loans issued by the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust) for
the securitized loan portfolio that was consolidated under accounting guidance for consolidation of VIEs effective January 1, 2010. The establishment of the $2.5 billion reserve for losses for the securitized loan portfolio was determined by
applying the same methodology as is used for the Company s unsecuritized loan portfolio. There was no incremental reserve required nor were any charge-offs recorded in conjunction with the consolidation of the Lending Trust.

(b)  
  Provisions for principal (resulting from authorized transactions), interest and fee reserves components.     

(c)  
  Provisions for unauthorized transactions.     
 
    Cardmember Loans Evaluated Individually and Collectively for Impairment   
  The following table presents cardmember loans evaluated individually and collectively for impairment and related reserves as of December 31:

(a)  
  Represents loans modified in a TDR and related reserves. Refer to the Impaired Loans and Receivables discussion in Note 4 for further information.

(b)  
  Represents current loans and loans less than 90 days past due, loans over 90 days past due and accruing interest, and non-accrual loans and related reserves. The
reserves include the results of analytical models that are specific to individual pools of loans and reserves for external environmental factors that apply to loans in geographic markets that are collectively evaluated for impairment and are not
specific to any individual pool of loans.     
         78   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 6   
    INVESTMENT SECURITIES       Investment securities include debt and equity securities classified as available for sale. The Company s investment securities, principally debt securities, are carried at fair value on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets with unrealized gains (losses) recorded in AOCI, net of income taxes. Realized gains and losses are recognized in results of operations upon disposition of the securities using the specific identification method on a
trade date basis. Refer to Note 3 for a description of the Company s methodology for determining the fair value of investment securities.       
  The following is a summary of investment securities as of December 31:   

(a)  
  The December 31, 2012 and 2011 balances include, on a cost basis, nil and $600 million, respectively, of corporate debt obligations issued under the Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) that are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).     

(b)  
  Represents mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae.     

(c)  
  Primarily represents the Company s investment in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC).     

(d)  
  Other comprises investments in various mutual funds.        The following table provides information about the Company s investment securities with gross unrealized losses and the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized
loss position as of December 31:       
    The following table summarizes the gross unrealized losses due to temporary impairments by ratio of fair value to
amortized cost as of December 31:       
 
         79   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The gross unrealized losses are attributed to overall wider credit spreads for state and municipal
securities, wider credit spreads for specific issuers, adverse changes in market benchmark interest rates, or a combination thereof, all as compared to those prevailing when the investment securities were acquired.   
  Overall, for the investment securities in gross unrealized loss positions identified above, (i) the Company does not intend to sell
the investment securities, (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of the unrealized losses, and (iii) the Company expects that the contractual principal and
interest will be received on the investment securities. As a result, the Company recognized no other-than-temporary impairments during the periods presented.      SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION      Gross realized gains and losses on the sales of investment
securities, included in other non-interest revenues, were as follows:       
    Contractual maturities of investment securities, excluding equity securities and other securities, as of December 31,
2012 were as follows:       
    The expected payments on state and municipal obligations and mortgage-backed securities may not coincide with their
contractual maturities because the issuers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.   
     NOTE 7   
    ASSET SECURITIZATIONS       CHARGE TRUSTS AND LENDING TRUST      The Company periodically securitizes cardmember receivables
and loans arising from its card business through the transfer of those assets to securitization trusts. The trusts then issue securities to third-party investors, collateralized by the transferred assets.   
  Cardmember receivables are transferred to the American Express Issuance Trust (the Charge Trust), and the American Express Issuance Trust
II (the Charge Trust II), collectively referred to as the Charge Trusts. Cardmember loans are transferred to the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the Lending Trust). The Charge Trusts and the Lending Trust are consolidated by American
Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc. (TRS), which is a consolidated subsidiary of the Company. The trusts are considered VIEs as they have insufficient equity at risk to finance their activities, which are to issue securities that are
collateralized by the underlying cardmember receivables and loans.      TRS, in its role as servicer of the Charge Trusts and the
Lending Trust, has the power to direct the most significant activity of the trusts, which is the collection of the underlying cardmember receivables and loans in the trusts. In addition, TRS, excluding its consolidated subsidiaries, owns
approximately $0.8 billion of subordinated securities issued by the Lending Trust as of December 31, 2012. These subordinated securities have the obligation to absorb losses of the Lending Trust and provide the right to receive benefits from
the Lending Trust, both of which are significant to the VIE. TRS  role as servicer for the Charge Trusts does not provide it with a significant obligation to absorb losses or a significant right to receive benefits. However, TRS  position
as the parent company of the entities that transferred the receivables to the Charge Trusts makes it the party most closely related to the Charge Trusts. Based on these considerations, TRS is the primary beneficiary of both the Charge Trusts and the
Lending Trust.      The debt securities issued by the Charge Trusts and the Lending Trust are non-recourse to the Company.
Securitized cardmember receivables and loans held by the Charge Trusts and the Lending Trust are available only for payment of the debt securities or other obligations issued or arising in the securitization transactions. The long-term debt of each
trust is payable only out of collections on their respective underlying securitized assets.      There was approximately $3 million
and $15 million of restricted cash held by the Charge Trusts as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximately $73 million and $192 million of restricted cash held by the Lending Trust as of December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively, included in other assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. These amounts relate to collections of cardmember receivables and loans to be used by the trusts to fund future expenses and obligations, including interest
paid on investor certificates, credit losses and upcoming debt maturities.      CHARGE TRUSTS AND LENDING TRUST TRIGGERING EVENTS
     Under the respective terms of the Charge Trusts and the Lending Trust agreements, the occurrence of certain triggering events associated with
the performance of the assets of each trust could result in payment of trust expenses, establishment of reserve funds, or in a worst-case scenario, early amortization of investor certificates. During the year ended December 31, 2012, no such
triggering events occurred.   
         80   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 8   
    OTHER ASSETS    
  The following is a summary of other assets as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Refer to Notes 17 and 12 for a discussion of deferred tax assets, net, and derivative assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. Derivative assets
reflect the impact of master netting agreements.     

(b)  
  Includes prepaid miles and reward points acquired primarily from airline partners of approximately $1.4 billion and $1.8 billion, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011,
respectively, including approximately $1.1 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, from Delta.     

(c)  
  Includes restricted cash of approximately $76 million and $207 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, which is primarily held for coupon and
certain asset-backed securitization maturities.        GOODWILL      Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition cost of an acquired company over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company assigns goodwill to its reporting units for the
purpose of impairment testing. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment, or a business that is one level below an operating segment for which discrete financial information is regularly reviewed by the operating segment manager. The
Company evaluates goodwill for impairment annually as of June 30 and between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. The goodwill
impairment test utilizes a two-step approach. The first step in the impairment test identifies whether there is potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the second step of the impairment test is required to measure the amount of any impairment loss. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, goodwill was not impaired and there were no accumulated
impairment losses.      Goodwill impairment testing involves management judgment, requiring an assessment of whether the carrying
value of the reporting unit can be supported by its fair value using widely accepted valuation techniques. The Company uses a combination of the income approach (discounted cash flow method) and market approach (market multiples).   
  When preparing discounted cash flow models under the income approach, the Company uses internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows
expected to be generated by the reporting units. Actual results may differ from forecasted results. The Company calculates discount rates based on the expected cost of equity financing, estimated using a capital asset pricing model, to discount
future cash flows for each reporting unit. The Company believes the discount rates used appropriately reflect the risks and uncertainties in the financial markets generally and specifically in the Company s internally developed forecasts.
Further, to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the discounted cash flow models, the Company also analyzes market-based multiples for similar industries of the reporting unit, where available.   
      The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill reported in the Company s
reportable operating segments and Corporate   Other were as follows:       

(a)  
  Primarily comprised of the acquisition of Loyalty Partner in 2011. Refer to Note 2 for further discussion.     
         81   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS      Intangible assets, primarily customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives of 1 to 22 years on straight-line basis. The Company reviews intangible assets for impairment quarterly
and whenever events and circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. In addition, on an annual basis, the Company performs an impairment evaluation of all intangible assets by assessing the recoverability of the asset
values based on the cash flows generated by the relevant assets or asset groups. An impairment is recognized if the carrying amount is not recoverable and exceeds the asset s fair value.   
      The components of other intangible assets were as follows:   

Amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010 was $198 million, $189 million and $176 million, respectively. Intangible assets acquired in 2012 and 2011 are being amortized, on average, over 6 years and 13 years, respectively.      Estimated amortization expense for other intangible assets over the next five years is as follows:       
    OTHER   
  The Company had $427 million and $332 million in affordable housing and other tax credit investment partnership interests as of December 31, 2012 and
2011, respectively, included in other assets in the table above. The Company is a non-controlling partner in the affordable housing and other tax credit investment partnerships. These partnership interests are accounted for in accordance with GAAP
governing equity method investments and joint ventures.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 9   
    CUSTOMER DEPOSITS    
  As of December 31, customer deposits were categorized as interest-bearing or non-interest-bearing deposits as follows:   
   
    Customer deposits were aggregated by deposit type offered by the Company as of December 31 as follows:   
   
    The scheduled maturities of certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2012 were as follows:   
   
    As of December 31, certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or more were as follows:   

83   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 10   
    DEBT    
  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS      The Company s
short-term borrowings outstanding, defined as borrowings with original maturities of less than one year, as of December 31 were as follows:       

(a)  
  For floating-rate debt issuances, the stated interest rates are based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These rates
may not be indicative of future interest rates.     

(b)  
  Effective interest rates are only presented if swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt. There were no swaps in place as of December 31, 2012 and 2011.

(c)  
  Includes interest-bearing overdrafts with banks of $615 million and $821 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In addition, balances include
certain book overdrafts (i.e., primarily timing differences arising in the ordinary course of business), short-term borrowings from banks, as well as interest-bearing amounts due to merchants in accordance with merchant service agreements.
    
         84   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   LONG-TERM DEBT      The Company s long-term debt outstanding, defined as debt with original maturities of one year or greater, as of December 31 was as follows:   

(a)  
  The outstanding balances include (i) unamortized discount and premium, (ii) the impact of movements in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated debt and
(iii) the impact of fair value hedge accounting on certain fixed-rate notes that have been swapped to floating rate through the use of interest rate swaps. Under fair value hedge accounting, the outstanding balances on these fixed-rate notes
are adjusted to reflect the impact of changes in fair value due to changes in interest rates. Refer to Note 12 for more details on the Company s treatment of fair value hedges.     

(b)  
  For floating-rate debt issuances, the stated and effective interest rates are based on the floating rates in effect as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
These rates may not be indicative of future interest rates.     

(c)  
  Effective interest rates are only presented when swaps are in place to hedge the underlying debt.     

(d)  
  The maturity date will automatically be extended to September 1, 2066, except in the case of either (i) a prior redemption or (ii) a default. See further
discussion on this page.     
 
      As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Parent Company had $750 million principal
outstanding of Subordinated Debentures that accrue interest at an annual rate of 6.8 percent until September 1, 2016, and at an annual rate of three-month LIBOR plus 2.23 percent thereafter. At the Company s option, the Subordinated
Debentures are redeemable for cash after September 1, 2016 at 100 percent of the principal amount plus any accrued but unpaid interest. If the Company fails to achieve specified performance measures, it will be required to issue common shares
and apply the net proceeds to make interest payments on the Subordinated Debentures. No dividends on the Company s common or preferred shares could be paid until such interest payments are made. The Company would fail to meet these specific
performance measures if (i) the Company s tangible common equity is less than 4 percent of total adjusted assets for the most recent quarter or (ii) if the trailing two quarters  consolidated net income is equal to or less than
zero and tangible common equity as of the trigger determination date, and as of the end of the quarter end six months prior, has in each case declined by 10 percent or more from tangible common equity as of the end of the quarter 18 months prior to
the trigger determination date. The Company met the specified performance measures in 2012.   
         85   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Aggregate annual maturities on long-term debt obligations (based on final maturity dates) as of
December 31, 2012 were as follows:       
        As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company
maintained total bank lines of credit of $7.7 billion and $7.5 billion, respectively. Of the total credit lines, $3.0 billion and $2.9 billion were undrawn as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Undrawn amounts of $3.0 billion and $2.9
billion supported commercial paper borrowings and contingent funding needs as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively, $2.1 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.6 billion of these credit facilities will expire.
The availability of these credit lines is subject to the Company s compliance with certain financial covenants, principally, the maintenance by American Express Credit Corporation (Credco) of a 1.25 ratio of combined earnings and fixed charges
to fixed charges. Furthermore, in 2011, the Company s financial covenants included the maintenance of consolidated tangible net worth of at least $4.1 billion by the Company, and the compliance of American Express Centurion Bank (Centurion
Bank) and American Express Bank, FSB (FSB) with applicable regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company was not in violation of any of its debt covenants.   
  Additionally, the Company maintained a 3-year committed, revolving, secured financing facility which gives the Company the right to sell up to $3.0
billion face amount of eligible notes issued from the Charge Trust at any time through July 15, 2014.      As of
December 31, 2012, $3.0 billion was drawn on this facility. The Company also maintained a 2-year committed, revolving, secured financing facility which gives the Company the right to sell up to $2.0 billion face amount of eligible certificates
issued from the Lending Trust at any time through September 15, 2015. This facility remained undrawn as of December 31, 2012. The Company paid $48.1 million and $22.2 million in fees to maintain these lines in 2012 and 2011, respectively.
     These committed facilities do not contain material adverse change clauses, which might otherwise preclude borrowing under the
credit facilities, nor are they dependent on the Company s credit rating.      The Company paid total interest primarily
related to short- and long-term debt, corresponding interest rate swaps and customer deposits of $2.2 billion in 2012 and $2.4 billion in both 2011 and 2010.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 11   
    OTHER LIABILITIES    
  The following is a summary of other liabilities as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Employee-related liabilities include employee benefit plan obligations and incentive compensation.     

(b)  
  Rebate and reward accruals include payments to third-party card-issuing partners and cash-back reward costs.     

(c)  
  Other includes accruals for general operating expenses, client incentives, restructuring and reengineering reserves, advertising and promotion and derivatives.
       MEMBERSHIP REWARDS      The Membership Rewards program allows enrolled cardmembers to earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards including travel, entertainment, retail certificates and merchandise. The
Company records a balance sheet liability which represents management s best estimate of the cost of points earned that are expected to be redeemed. An ultimate redemption rate and weighted average cost per point are key factors used to
approximate Membership Rewards liability. Management uses statistical and actuarial models to estimate ultimate redemption rates based on redemption trends, current enrollee redemption behavior, card product type, enrollment tenure, card spend
levels and credit attributes. The weighted-average cost per point is determined using actual redemptions during the previous 12 months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs.   
  The expense for Membership Rewards points is included in marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses. The Company
periodically evaluates its liability estimation process and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, cost per point redeemed, partner contract changes and other factors.      DEFERRED CARD FEES      The carrying amount of deferred card and other fees, net of deferred
direct acquisition costs and reserves for membership cancellations as of December 31 were as follows:       

(a)  
  Includes deferred fees for Membership Rewards program participants.     
     NOTE 12   
    DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES       The Company uses derivative financial instruments (derivatives) to manage exposures to various market risks. Derivatives derive their value from an underlying variable or multiple variables, including
interest rate, foreign exchange, and equity index or price. These instruments enable end users to increase, reduce or alter exposure to various market risks and, for that reason, are an integral component of the Company s market risk
management. The Company does not engage in derivatives for trading purposes.      Market risk is the risk to earnings or value
resulting from movements in market prices. The Company s market risk exposure is primarily generated by:       

Interest rate risk in its card, insurance and Travelers Cheque businesses, as well as its investment portfolios; and      

Foreign exchange risk in its operations outside the United States and the associated funding of such operations.      
  The Company centrally monitors market risks using market risk limits and escalation triggers as defined in its Asset/Liability Management Policy.
     The Company s market exposures are in large part byproducts of the delivery of its products and services. Interest rate
risk arises through the funding of cardmember receivables and fixed-rate loans with variable-rate borrowings as well as through the risk to net interest margin from changes in the relationship between benchmark rates such as Prime and LIBOR.
     Interest rate exposure within the Company s charge card and fixed-rate lending products is managed by varying the
proportion of total funding provided by short-term and variable-rate debt and deposits compared to fixed-rate debt and deposits. In addition, interest rate swaps are used from time to time to economically convert fixed-rate debt obligations to
variable-rate obligations or to convert variable-rate debt obligations to fixed-rate obligations. The Company may change the mix between variable-rate and fixed-rate funding based on changes in business volumes and mix, among other factors.
     Foreign exchange risk is generated by cardmember cross-currency charges, foreign currency balance sheet exposures, foreign
subsidiary equity and foreign currency earnings in entities outside the United States. The Company s foreign exchange risk is managed primarily by entering into agreements to buy and sell currencies on a spot basis or by hedging this market
exposure to the extent it is economically justified through various means, including the use of derivatives such as foreign exchange forwards and cross-currency swap contracts, which can help mitigate the Company s exposure to specific
currencies.      In addition to the exposures identified above, effective August 1, 2011, the Company entered into a total
return contract (TRC) to hedge its exposure to changes in the fair value of its equity investment in ICBC in local currency. Under the terms of the TRC, the Company receives from the TRC counterparty an
  
         87   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   
amount equivalent to any reduction in the fair value of its investment in ICBC in local currency, and in return the Company pays to the TRC counterparty an amount equivalent to any increase in
the fair value of its investment in local currency, along with all dividends paid by ICBC, as well as ongoing hedge costs. The TRC matures on August 1, 2014.      Derivatives may give rise to counterparty credit risk, which is the risk that a derivative counterparty will default on, or otherwise be unable to perform pursuant to, an uncollateralized derivative
exposure. The Company manages this risk by considering the current exposure, which is the replacement cost of contracts on the measurement date, as well as estimating the maximum potential value of the contracts over the next 12 months, considering
such factors as the volatility of the underlying or reference index. To mitigate derivative credit risk, counterparties are required to be pre-approved by the Company and rated as investment grade. Counterparty risk exposures are centrally monitored
by the Company. Additionally, in order to mitigate the bilateral counterparty credit risk associated with derivatives, the Company has in certain instances entered into master netting agreements with its derivative counterparties, which provide a
right of offset for certain exposures between the parties. To further mitigate bilateral counterparty credit risk, the Company exercises its rights under executed credit support agreements with certain of its derivative counterparties. These
agreements require that, in the event the fair value change in the net derivatives position between the two parties exceeds certain dollar thresholds, the party in the net liability position posts collateral to its counterparty.   
  In relation to the Company s credit risk, under the terms of the derivative agreements it has with its various counterparties, the
Company is not required to either immediately settle any outstanding liability balances or post collateral upon the occurrence of a specified credit risk-related event. Based on the assessment of credit risk of the Company s derivative
counterparties as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company does not have derivatives positions that warrant credit valuation adjustments.      The Company s derivatives are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accounting for changes in fair value depends on the instruments  intended use and the resulting hedge
designation, if any, as discussed below. Refer to Note 3 for a description of the Company s methodology for determining the fair value of derivatives.       
  The following table summarizes the total fair value, excluding interest accruals, of derivative assets and liabilities as of December 31:   

(a)  
  Includes foreign currency derivatives embedded in certain operating agreements.     

(b)  
  Represents an equity-linked derivative embedded in one of the Company s investment securities.     

(c)  
  As permitted under GAAP, balances represent the netting of cash collateral received and posted under credit support agreements, and the netting of derivative assets and
derivative liabilities under master netting agreements. Additionally, the Company received noncash collateral in the form of security interest in U.S. Treasury securities with a fair value of $335 million as of December 31, 2012, none of which
was sold or repledged. Such noncash collateral effectively reduces the Company s risk exposure.     
         88   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS THAT QUALIFY FOR HEDGE ACCOUNTING   
  Derivatives executed for hedge accounting purposes are documented and designated as such when the Company enters into the contracts. In accordance with
its risk management policies, the Company structures its hedges with terms similar to that of the item being hedged. The Company formally assesses, at inception of the hedge accounting relationship and on a quarterly basis, whether derivatives
designated as hedges are highly effective in offsetting the fair value or cash flows of the hedged items. These assessments usually are made through the application of a regression analysis method. If it is determined that a derivative is not highly
effective as a hedge, the Company will discontinue the application of hedge accounting.      FAIR VALUE HEDGES   
  A fair value hedge involves a derivative designated to hedge the Company s exposure to future changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability,
or an identified portion thereof that is attributable to a particular risk.      Interest Rate Contracts   
  The Company is exposed to interest rate risk associated with its fixed-rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to economically convert
certain fixed-rate long-term debt obligations to floating-rate obligations at the time of issuance. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company hedged $18.4 billion and $17.1 billion, respectively, of its fixed-rate debt to floating-rate debt
using interest rate swaps.      To the extent the fair value hedge is effective, the gain or loss on the hedging instrument offsets
the loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Any difference between the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item is referred to as hedge ineffectiveness and is reflected in earnings as a component of
other expenses. Hedge ineffectiveness may be caused by differences between the debt s interest coupon and the benchmark rate, primarily due to credit spreads at inception of the hedging relationship that are not reflected in the valuation of
the interest rate swap. Furthermore, hedge ineffectiveness may be caused by changes in the relationship between 3-month LIBOR and 1-month LIBOR, as basis spreads may impact the valuation of the interest rate swap without causing an offsetting impact
in the value of the hedged debt. If a fair value hedge is de-designated or no longer considered to be effective, changes in fair value of the derivative continue to be recorded through earnings but the hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted
for changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates. The existing basis adjustment of the hedged asset or liability is amortized or accreted as an adjustment to yield over the remaining life of that asset or liability.   
  Total Return Contract      The Company hedges
its exposure to changes in the fair value of its equity investment in ICBC in local currency. The Company uses a TRC to transfer this exposure to its derivative counterparty. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of the equity
investment in ICBC was $295 million (415.9 million shares) and $359 million (605.4 million shares), respectively. To the extent the hedge is effective, the gain or loss on the TRC offsets the loss or gain on the investment in ICBC. Any difference
between the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the hedged item results in hedge ineffectiveness and is recognized in other expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
      The following table summarizes the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income
associated with the Company s hedges of its fixed-rate long-term debt and its investment in ICBC for the years ended December 31:       
 
         89   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The Company also recognized a net reduction in interest expense on long-term debt of $491 million, $503
million and $522 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to the net settlements (interest accruals) on the Company s interest rate derivatives designated as fair value hedges.
     CASH FLOW HEDGES      A cash flow
hedge involves a derivative designated to hedge the Company s exposure to variable future cash flows attributable to a particular risk. Such exposures may relate to either an existing recognized asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
The Company hedges existing long-term variable-rate debt, the rollover of short-term borrowings and the anticipated forecasted issuance of additional funding through the use of derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps. These derivative instruments
economically convert floating-rate debt obligations to fixed-rate obligations for the duration of the instrument. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company hedged nil and $305 million, respectively, of its floating-rate debt using interest
rate swaps.      For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is
recorded in AOCI and reclassified into earnings when the hedged cash flows are recognized in earnings. The amount that is reclassified into earnings is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income in the same line item in which the hedged
instrument or transaction is recognized, primarily in interest expense. Any ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the derivatives is reported as a component of other expenses. If a cash flow hedge is de-designated or terminated prior to
maturity, the amount previously recorded in AOCI is recognized into earnings over the period that the hedged item impacts earnings. If a hedge relationship is discontinued because it is probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur
according to the original strategy, any related amounts previously recorded in AOCI are recognized into earnings immediately.   
  In the normal course of business, as the hedged cash flows are recognized into earnings, the Company does not expect to reclassify any
amount of net pretax losses on derivatives from AOCI into earnings during the next 12 months.      NET INVESTMENT HEDGES   
  A net investment hedge is used to hedge future changes in currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The Company primarily designates
foreign currency derivatives, typically foreign exchange forwards, and on occasion foreign currency denominated debt, as hedges of net investments in certain foreign operations. These instruments reduce exposure to changes in currency exchange rates
on the Company s investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. The effective portion of the gain or (loss) on net investment hedges, net of taxes, recorded in AOCI as part of the cumulative translation adjustment, was $(288) million, $(26) million and
$32 million for the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Any ineffective portion of the gain or (loss) on net investment hedges is recognized in other expenses during the period of change.   
      The following table summarizes the impact of cash flow hedges and net investment
hedges on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31:       

Gains (losses)
recognized in income   

Amount reclassified   from AOCI into
income  

Income Statement Line Item   
      
  Net hedge   ineffectiveness  

Description  (Millions)       
      
    Income Statement Line Item   
      
   2012   

2011  

2010  

2012   

2011  

2010  

Cash flow hedges: (a)    

Interest rate contracts      
      
    Interest expense   
      
   $   
   (1   
   )    
     
  $  
  (13  
  )   
     
  $  
  (36  
  )   
     
    Other, net expenses   
      
   $   

$  

$  

Net investment hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts      
      
    Other, net expenses   
      
   $   

$  

$  
  2  

Other, net expenses   
      
   $   

$  
  (3  
  )   
     
  $  
  (3  
  )    
     
        DERIVATIVES NOT DESIGNATED AS HEDGES   
  The Company has derivatives that act as economic hedges, but are not designated as such for hedge accounting purposes. Foreign currency transactions and
non-U.S. dollar cash flow exposures from time to time may be partially or fully economically hedged through foreign currency contracts, primarily foreign exchange forwards, options and cross-currency swaps. These hedges generally mature within one
year. Foreign currency contracts involve the purchase and sale of a designated currency at an agreed upon rate for settlement on a specified date. The changes in the fair value of the derivatives effectively offset the related foreign exchange gains
or losses on the underlying balance sheet exposures. From time to time, the Company may enter into interest rate swaps to specifically manage funding costs related to its proprietary card business.   
  The Company has certain operating agreements containing payments that may be linked to a market rate or price, primarily foreign currency
rates. The payment components of these agreements may meet the definition of an embedded derivative, in which case the embedded derivative is accounted for separately and is classified as a foreign exchange contract based on its primary risk
exposure. In addition, the Company holds an investment security containing an embedded equity-linked derivative.      For
derivatives that are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are reported in current period earnings.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The following table summarizes the impact on pretax earnings of derivatives not designated as hedges, as
reported on the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31:       

(a)  
  Foreign exchange contracts include embedded foreign currency derivatives. Gains (losses) on these embedded derivatives are included in other expenses.
        
     NOTE 13   
    GUARANTEES       The
Company provides cardmember protection plans that cover losses associated with purchased products, as well as certain other guarantees in the ordinary course of business which are within the scope of GAAP governing the accounting for guarantees. For
the Company, guarantees primarily consist of card and travel protection programs, including:       

Return Protection   refunds the price of eligible purchases made with the card where the merchant will not accept the return for up to 90 days
from the date of purchase;          

Account Protection   provides account protection in the event that a cardmember is unable to make payments on the account due to unforeseen
hardship;          

Merchant Protection   protects cardmembers primarily against non-delivery of goods and services, usually in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation
of a merchant. In the event that a dispute is resolved in the cardmember s favor, the Company will generally credit the cardmember account for the amount of the purchase and will seek recovery from the merchant. If the Company is unable to
collect the amount from the merchant, it will bear the loss for the amount credited to the cardmember. The Company mitigates this risk by withholding settlement from the merchant or obtaining deposits and other guarantees from merchants considered
higher risk due to various factors. The amounts being held by the Company are not significant when compared to the maximum potential amount of undiscounted future payments; and,      

Credit Card Registry   cancels and requests replacement of lost or stolen cards, and provides for fraud liability coverage.
        In relation to its maximum potential undiscounted future payments as shown in the table that follows, to date the Company
has not experienced any significant losses related to guarantees. The Company s initial recognition of guarantees is at fair value, which has been determined in accordance with GAAP governing fair value measurement. In addition, the Company
establishes reserves when a loss is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated.      The following table provides information related to
such guarantees as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Represents the notional amounts that could be lost under the guarantees and indemnifications if there were a total default by the guaranteed parties. The Merchant
Protection guarantee is calculated using management s best estimate of maximum exposure based on all eligible claims as measured against annual billed business volumes. The Company mitigates this risk by withholding settlement from the merchant
or obtaining deposits and other guarantees from merchants considered higher risk due to various factors. The amounts being held by the Company are not significant when compared to the maximum potential undiscounted future payments.

(b)  
  Included as part of other liabilities on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.     

(c)  
  Includes Return Protection, Account Protection and Merchant Protection.     

(d)  
  Primarily includes guarantees related to the Company s business dispositions and real estate.     
  Refer to Note 26 for a discussion of additional guarantees of the Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011.   
         91   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 14   
    COMMON AND PREFERRED SHARES       The following table shows authorized shares and provides a reconciliation of common shares issued and outstanding for the years ended December 31:   

(a)  
  Of the common shares authorized but unissued as of December 31, 2012, approximately 80 million shares are reserved for issuance under employee stock and
employee benefit plans.        On March 26, 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of 150 million common
shares over time, in accordance with the Company s capital plans approved by the Federal Reserve and subject to market conditions. This authorization replaced all prior repurchase authorizations. During 2012 and 2011, the Company repurchased
69 million common shares with a cost basis of $4.0 billion and 48 million common shares with a cost basis of $2.3 billion, respectively. The cost basis includes commissions paid of $1.0 million in both 2012 and 2011. As of
December 31, 2012, the Company has 83 million common shares remaining under the Board share repurchase authorization. Such authorization does not have an expiration date.   
  Common shares are generally retired by the Company upon repurchase (except for 3.9 million, 4.2 million and 4.7 million
shares held as treasury shares as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively); retired common shares and treasury shares are excluded from the shares outstanding in the table above. The treasury shares, with a cost basis of $236 million,
$217 million and $219 million as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are included as a reduction to additional paid-in capital in shareholders  equity on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
  The Board of Directors is authorized to permit the Company to issue up to 20 million preferred shares at a par value of $1.66 2/3
without further shareholder approval. There were no preferred shares issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.   
         92   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 15   
    CHANGES IN ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME       AOCI is a balance sheet item in the Shareholders  Equity section of the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets. It is comprised of items that have not been recognized in earnings but may be
recognized in earnings in the future when certain events occur. Changes in each component of AOCI for the three years ended December 31 were as follows:       

(a)  
  The following table shows the tax impact for the three years ended December 31 for the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income:

(b)  
  As a result of the adoption of new GAAP governing consolidations and VIEs, the Company no longer presents within its Consolidated Financial Statements the effects of
the retained subordinated securities issued by previously unconsolidated VIEs related to the Company s cardmember loan securitization programs.     
         93   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 16   
    RESTRUCTURING CHARGES       During 2012, the Company recorded $403 million of restructuring charges, net of revisions to prior estimates. The 2012 activity primarily relates to $400 million of restructuring charges recorded in the
fourth quarter as the Company committed to undertake a Company-wide restructuring plan designed to contain future operating expenses, adapt parts of the business as more customers transact online or through mobile channels, and provide the resources
for additional growth initiatives worldwide. This restructuring initiative is expected to result in the elimination of approximately 5,400 positions. The remaining 2012 activity includes $19 million for several smaller initiatives which were offset
by revisions to prior estimates of $(16) million for higher employee redeployments to other positions within the Company and to a lesser extent modifications to existing initiatives.   
  During 2011, the Company recorded $119 million of restructuring charges, net of revisions to prior estimates. The 2011 activity primarily
relates to $105 million of restructuring charges the Company recorded throughout the year to further reduce its operating costs by reorganizing certain operations that occurred across all business units, markets and staff groups. The remaining 2011
activity includes $41 million of employee compensation and lease exit costs related to the facilities consolidation within the Company s global servicing network which were announced in the fourth quarter of 2010. The Company also recorded
revisions to prior estimates of $(27) million for higher employee redeployments to other positions within the Company and to a lesser extent modifications to existing initiatives.   
  During 2010, the Company recorded $96 million of restructuring charges, net of revisions to prior estimates. The 2010 activity primarily
relates to a $98 million charge reflecting employee severance obligations to consolidate certain facilities within the Company s global servicing network. As a result of this initiative, approximately 3,200 positions were to be eliminated;
however, overall staffing levels were expected to decrease by approximately 400 positions on a net basis as new employees were hired at the locations to which work is being transferred. The remaining 2010 activity includes $25 million of additional
charges comprised of several smaller initiatives which were more than offset by revisions to prior estimates of $(27) million for higher employee redeployments to other positions within the Company and to a lesser extent modifications to existing
initiatives.      Restructuring charges related to severance obligations are included in salaries and employee benefits in the
Company s Consolidated Statements of Income, while charges pertaining to other exit costs are included in occupancy and equipment and other, net expenses.       
  The following table summarizes the Company s restructuring reserves activity for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:   

(a)  
  Accounted for in accordance with GAAP governing the accounting for nonretirement postemployment benefits and for costs associated with exit or disposal activities.

(b)  
  Other primarily includes facility exit and contract termination costs.     

(c)  
  Revisions primarily relate to higher than anticipated redeployments of displaced employees to other positions within the Company, business changes and modifications to
existing initiatives.     

(d)  
  Consists primarily of foreign exchange impacts.     

(e)  
  Net revisions of $16 million were recorded in the Company s reportable operating segments and Corporate   Other as follows: $13 million in USCS, $7
million in ICS, $(5) million in GCS, $4 million in GNMS and $(3) million in Corporate   Other.     

(f)  
  The majority of cash payments related to the remaining restructuring liabilities are expected to be completed in 2014, and to a lesser extent certain contractual
long-term severance arrangements and lease obligations are expected to be completed in 2015 and 2019, respectively.     
         94   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The following table summarizes the Company s restructuring charges, net of revisions, by reportable
operating segment and Corporate   Other for the year ended December 31, 2012, and the cumulative amounts relating to the restructuring programs that were in progress during 2012 and initiated at various dates between 2009 and 2012.

(a)  
  Corporate   Other includes certain severance and other charges of $166 million related to Company-wide support functions which were not allocated to the
Company s reportable operating segments, as these were corporate initiatives, which is consistent with how such charges were reported internally.     

(b)  
  As of December 31, 2012, the total expenses to be incurred for previously approved restructuring activities that were in progress are not expected to be materially
different than the cumulative expenses incurred to date for these programs.         
     NOTE 17   
    INCOME TAXES    
  The components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31 included in the Consolidated Statements of Income were as follows:   
   
    A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company s actual income tax rate for the
years ended December 31 on continuing operations was as follows:       

(a)  
  Results for all years primarily included tax benefits associated with the undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were deemed to be reinvested
indefinitely. In addition, 2012 and 2011 included tax benefits of $146 million and $77 million, which decreased the actual tax rates by 2.3 percent and 1.1 percent, respectively, related to the realization of certain foreign tax credits.

(b)  
  Relates to the resolution of tax matters in various jurisdictions.        The Company records a deferred income tax (benefit) provision when there are differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting and for income tax return purposes. These temporary
differences result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse.      The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are reflected in the following table:   
   
    A valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that all or some portion
of the benefit of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowances as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 are associated with net operating losses and other deferred tax assets in certain non-U.S. operations of the Company.
     Accumulated earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, which totaled approximately $8.5 billion as of December 31, 2012,
are intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. The Company does not provide for federal income taxes on foreign earnings intended to be permanently reinvested outside the United States. Accordingly, federal taxes, which would
have aggregated approximately $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2012, have not been provided on those earnings.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Net income taxes paid by the Company (including amounts related to discontinued
operations) during 2012, 2011 and 2010, were approximately $1.9 billion, $0.7 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively. These amounts include estimated tax payments and cash settlements relating to prior tax years.   
  The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions
in which the Company operates. These tax laws are complex, and the manner in which they apply to the taxpayer s facts is sometimes open to interpretation. Given these inherent complexities, the Company must make judgments in assessing the
likelihood that a tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the tax position. A tax position is recognized only when, based on management s judgment regarding the application of
income tax laws, it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination. The amount of benefit recognized for financial reporting purposes is based on management s best judgment of the largest amount of benefit that
is more likely than not to be realized on ultimate settlement with the taxing authority given the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. The Company adjusts the level of unrecognized tax benefits when there is new
information available to assess the likelihood of the outcome.      The Company is under continuous examination by the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) and tax authorities in other countries and states in which the Company has significant business operations. The tax years under examination and open for examination vary by jurisdiction. The IRS has completed its field
examination of the Company s federal tax returns for years through 2004; however, refund claims for those years continue to be reviewed by the IRS. In addition, the Company is currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2005 through
2007.      The following table presents changes in unrecognized tax benefits:   
   
    Included in the unrecognized tax benefits of $1.2 billion for both December 31, 2012 and 2011 and $1.4 billion for
December 31, 2010, are approximately $452 million, $440 million and $476 million, respectively, that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate in a future period.   
  The Company believes it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease within the next 12 months by as much
as $971 million principally as a result of potential resolutions of prior years  tax items with various taxing authorities. The prior years  tax items include unrecognized tax benefits relating to the deductibility of certain expenses or
losses and the attribution of taxable income to a particular jurisdiction or jurisdictions. Of the $971 million of unrecognized tax benefits, approximately $667 million relates to amounts that if recognized would be recorded to shareholders 
equity and would not impact the effective tax rate. With respect to the remaining $304 million, it is not possible to quantify the impact that the decrease could have on the effective tax rate and net income due to the inherent complexities and the
number of tax years open for examination in multiple jurisdictions. Resolution of the prior years  items that comprise this remaining amount could have an impact on the effective tax rate and on net income, either favorably (principally as
a result of settlements that are less than the liability for unrecognized tax benefits) or unfavorably (if such settlements exceed the liability for unrecognized tax benefits).      Interest and penalties relating to unrecognized tax benefits are reported in the income tax provision. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized approximately
$(8) million, $(63) million and $31 million, respectively, of interest and penalties. The Company has approximately $155 million and $163 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
     Discontinued operations for 2011 included the impact of a $36 million tax benefit related to the favorable resolution of
certain prior years  tax items related to American Express Bank, Ltd., which was sold to Standard Chartered PLC during the quarter ended March 31, 2008.   
         96   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 18   
    EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE (EPS)       The computations of basic and diluted EPS for the years ended December 31 were as follows:       

(a)  
  The Company s unvested restricted stock awards, which include the right to receive non-forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents, are considered participating
securities. Calculations of EPS under the two-class method exclude from the numerator any dividends paid or owed on participating securities and any undistributed earnings considered to be attributable to participating securities. The related
participating securities are similarly excluded from the denominator.     

(b)  
  For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the dilutive effect of unexercised stock options excludes 8 million, 19 million and 36 million
options, respectively, from the computation of EPS because inclusion of the options would have been anti-dilutive.        For the years
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company met specified performance measures related to the Subordinated Debentures of $750 million issued in 2006, which resulted in no impact to EPS. If the performance measures were not achieved in
any given quarter, the Company would be required to issue common shares and apply the proceeds to make interest payments.   
     NOTE 19   
    DETAILS OF CERTAIN CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME LINES       The following is a detail of other commissions and fees for the years ended December 31:       
    The following is a detail of other revenues for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Other revenues include revenues arising from contracts with Global Network Services (GNS) partners including royalties and
signing fees, insurance premiums earned from cardmember travel and other insurance programs, Travelers Cheques related revenues, publishing revenues and other miscellaneous revenue and fees.      The following is a detail of marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services for the years ended December 31:       
    Marketing and promotion expense includes advertising costs, which are expensed in the year in which the advertising first
takes place. Cardmember rewards expense includes the costs of rewards programs, including Membership Rewards (discussed in Note 11) and co-brand arrangements. Cardmember services expense includes protection plans and complimentary services provided
to cardmembers.   
         97   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The following is a detail of other, net for the years ended December 31:   
   
    Other expense includes general operating expenses, gains (losses) on sale of assets or businesses not classified as
discontinued operations, litigation, internal and regulatory review-related reimbursements and insurance costs or settlements, investment impairments and certain Loyalty Partner expenses.   
     NOTE 20   
    STOCK PLANS    
  STOCK OPTION AND AWARD PROGRAMS      Under the
2007 Incentive Compensation Plan and previously under the 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, awards may be granted to employees and other key individuals who perform services for the Company and its participating subsidiaries. These awards may be in
the form of stock options, restricted stock awards or units (RSAs), portfolio grants (PGs) or other incentives, and similar awards designed to meet the requirements of non-U.S. jurisdictions.   
  For the Company s Incentive Compensation Plans, there were a total of 36 million, 38 million and 40 million common
shares unissued and available for grant as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as authorized by the Company s Board of Directors and shareholders.      The Company granted stock option awards to its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in November 2007 and January 2008 that have performance-based and market-based conditions. These option awards are separately
disclosed and are excluded from the information and tables presented in the following paragraphs.      A summary of stock option and RSA activity
as of December 31, 2012, and changes during the year is presented below:       
    The Company recognizes the cost of employee stock awards granted in exchange for employee services based on the grant-date
fair value of the award, net of expected forfeitures. Those costs are recognized ratably over the vesting period.      STOCK OPTIONS
     Each stock option has an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company s common stock on the date of grant and a contractual
term of 10 years from the date of grant. Stock options generally vest 25 percent per year beginning with the first anniversary of the grant date.      The weighted-average remaining contractual life and the aggregate intrinsic value (the amount by which the fair value of the Company s stock exceeds the exercise price of the option) of the stock
options outstanding, exercisable, and vested and expected to vest as of December 31, 2012 are as follows:       
 
         98   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The intrinsic value for options exercised during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $209 million, $206 million and
$130 million, respectively (based upon the fair value of the Company s stock price at the date of exercise). Cash received from the exercise of stock options in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $368 million, $503 million and $619 million, respectively.
The tax benefit realized from income tax deductions from stock option exercises, which was recorded in additional paid-in capital, in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $45 million, $60 million and $35 million, respectively.   
  The fair value of each option is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The following weighted-average
assumptions were used for grants issued in 2012, 2011 and 2010, the majority of which were granted in the beginning of each year:       

(a)  
  The expected volatility is based on both weighted historical and implied volatilities of the Company s common stock price.     

(b)  
  In 2012, 2011 and 2010, the expected life of stock options was determined using both historical data and expectations of option exercise behavior.
       STOCK OPTIONS WITH PERFORMANCE-BASED AND MARKET-BASED CONDITIONS      On November 30, 2007 and January 31, 2008, the Company s CEO was granted in the aggregate 2,750,000 of non-qualified stock option awards with performance-based and market-based conditions.
Both awards have a contractual term of 10 years and a vesting period of 6 years.      The aggregate grant date fair value of
options with performance-based conditions was approximately $33.8 million. Compensation expense for these awards will be recognized over the vesting period when it is determined it is probable that the performance metrics will be achieved. No
compensation expense for these awards was recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010.      The aggregate grant date fair value of options with
market-based conditions was approximately $10.5 million. Compensation expense for these awards is recognized ratably over the vesting period irrespective of the probability of the market metric being achieved. Total compensation expense of
approximately $0.5 million was recorded in 2012 and approximately $2.4 million was recorded in both 2011 and 2010.      RESTRICTED STOCK
AWARDS      RSAs are valued based on the stock price on the date of grant and generally vest 25 percent per year, beginning with the first
anniversary of the grant date. RSA holders receive non-forfeitable dividends or dividend equivalents. The total fair value of shares vested during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $296 million, $221 million and $175 million, respectively (based upon the
Company s stock price at the vesting date).      The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSAs granted in 2012, 2011 and
2010, is $49.80, $45.11 and $38.63, respectively.      LIABILITY-BASED AWARDS      Certain employees are awarded PGs and other incentive awards that can be settled with cash or equity shares at the Company s discretion and final Compensation and Benefits Committee payout approval.
These awards earn value based on performance, market and service conditions and vest over periods of one to three years.      PGs
and other incentive awards are generally settled with cash and thus are classified as liabilities and, therefore, the fair value is determined at the date of grant and remeasured quarterly as part of compensation expense over the vesting period.
Cash paid upon vesting of these awards in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $66 million, $58 million and $64 million, respectively.      SUMMARY OF
STOCK PLAN EXPENSE      The components of the Company s total stock-based compensation expense (net of forfeitures) for the years ended
December 31 are as follows:       

(a)  
  As of December 31, 2012, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSAs and options of $237 million and $27 million, respectively, will be
recognized ratably over the weighted-average remaining vesting period of 1.6 years and 1.4 years, respectively.     
 
         99   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 21   
    RETIREMENT PLANS    
  The Company sponsors defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, and other postretirement benefit plans for its employees. The following
table provides a summary of the total cost related to these plans for the years ended December 31:       
    The expenses in the above table are recorded in salaries and employee benefits in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
     DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS   
  The Company s significant defined benefit pension plans cover certain employees in the United States and United Kingdom. Most employees outside the
United States and United Kingdom are covered by local retirement plans, some of which are funded, while other employees receive payments at the time of retirement or termination under applicable labor laws or agreements. The Company complies with
the minimum funding requirements in all countries.      The Company sponsors the U.S. American Express Retirement Plan (the Plan)
for eligible employees in the United States. The Plan is a noncontributory defined benefit plan and a tax-qualified retirement plan subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA). The Plan is closed to new
entrants and existing participants no longer accrue future benefits. The Company funds retirement costs through a trust and complies with the applicable minimum funding requirements specified by ERISA.   
  The Plan is a cash balance plan and employees  accrued benefits are based on notional account balances, which are maintained for each
individual. Employees  balances are credited daily with interest at a fixed rate. The interest rate varies from a minimum of 5 percent to a maximum equal to the lesser of (i) 10 percent or (ii) the applicable interest rate set forth
in the Plan.      The Company also sponsors an unfunded non-qualified plan, the Retirement Restoration Plan (the RRP), for
employees compensated above a certain level to supplement their pension benefits that are limited by the Internal Revenue Code. The RRP s terms generally parallel those of the Plan, except that the definitions of compensation and payment
options differ.      For each plan, the net funded status is defined by GAAP governing retirement benefits as the difference
between the fair value of plan assets and the respective plan s projected benefit obligation.      As of December 31, 2012, the net
funded status related to the defined benefit pension plans was underfunded by $486 million, as shown in the following table:       
    The net funded status amounts as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 are recognized in other liabilities on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets.      Plan Assets and Obligations      The following tables provide a reconciliation of changes in the fair value of plan assets and projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit pension plans as of December 31:   
   Reconciliation of Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets        
     Reconciliation of Change in Projected Benefit Obligation    

100   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss      The following table provides the amounts comprising accumulated other comprehensive loss, which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic pension benefit cost as of December 31:
      
    The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss and net prior service credit that is expected to be recognized as a
component of net periodic pension benefit cost in 2013 is $73 million and $1 million, respectively.      The following table lists the amounts
recognized in other comprehensive loss in 2012:       

(Millions)    
      
   2012   

Net actuarial loss:   

Reclassified to earnings from
equity (a)    
      
   $   
   (80   
   )     
 
    Losses in current year (b)    

102   

Net actuarial loss, pretax   

22   

Net prior service credit:   

Reclassified to earnings from equity   

1   

Gains in current year   

(10   
   )     

Net prior service credit, pretax   

(9   
   )     

Total, pretax   
      
   $   
   13   

(a)  
  Amortization of actuarial losses and recognition of losses related to lump sum settlements.     

(b)  
  Deferral of actuarial losses.        Benefit
Obligations      The accumulated benefit obligation in a defined benefit pension plan is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan
participants computed based on current compensation levels as contrasted to the projected benefit obligation, which is the present value of benefits earned to date by plan participants based on their expected future compensation at their projected
retirement date.      The accumulated and projected benefit obligations for all defined benefit pension plans as of December 31 were as
follows:       
    The accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation
that exceeds the fair value of plan assets were as follows:       
    The amounts disclosed in the table above will vary year to year based on whether plans meet the disclosure requirement.
     The projected benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for pension plans with projected benefit obligation that exceeds the fair value
of plan assets as of December 31 were as follows:       
    Net Periodic Pension Benefit Cost      The components of the net periodic pension benefit cost for all defined benefit pension plans for the years ended December 31 were as follows:   
   
    Assumptions      The weighted-average assumptions used to determine defined benefit pension obligations as of December 31 were as follows:   
   
    The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic pension benefit costs as of December 31 were as
follows:       
    The Company assumes a long-term rate of return on assets on a weighted-average basis. In developing this assumption,
management considers expected and historical returns over 5 to 15 years based on the mix of assets in its plans.   
         101   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The discount rate assumptions are determined using a model consisting of bond portfolios
that match the cash flows of the plan s projected benefit payments based on the plan participants  service to date and their expected future compensation. Use of the rate produced by this model generates a projected benefit obligation that
equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing and amount of expected future benefit payments.      Asset Allocation and Fair Value      The Benefit Plans Investment Committee (BPIC) is appointed
by the Company s Chief Executive Officer and has the responsibility of reviewing and approving the investment policies related to plan assets for the Company s defined benefit pension plans; evaluating the performance of the investments in
accordance with the investment policy; reviewing the investment objectives, risk characteristics, expenses and historical performance; and selecting, removing and evaluating the investment managers. For certain plans, the BPIC has delegated direct
oversight to local investment committees. The BPIC typically meets quarterly to review the performance of the various investment managers and advisers as well as other investment related matters. The Company s significant defined benefit
pension plans have investment policies, which prescribe targets for the amount of assets that can be invested in a security class in order to mitigate the detrimental impact of adverse or unexpected results with respect to any individual security
class on the overall portfolio. The portfolios are diversified by asset type, risk characteristics and concentration of investments.       
  The Company s retirement plan assets are reported at fair value. The following tables summarize the target allocation and categorization of all
defined benefit pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis by GAAP s valuation hierarchy as of December 31:       

(a)  
  A significant portion of international investments are in U.K. companies and U.K. government and agency securities.     

(b)  
  Consists of investments in private equity and real estate funds measured at reported net asset value.     
         102   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

Level 1 assets include investments in publicly traded equity securities and mutual funds. These securities are actively traded and valued using quoted
prices for identical securities from the market exchanges.          

Level 2 assets include fixed-income securities and balanced funds that are not actively traded or whose underlying investments are valued using
observable inputs. The fair value of plan assets invested in fixed-income securities is generally determined using valuation models that use observable inputs such as benchmark yields, benchmark security prices, credit spreads, prepayment speeds,
reported trades and broker-dealer quotes, all with reasonable levels of transparency. Plan assets invested in balanced funds comprised primarily of equity and fixed-income securities are valued using a unit price or net asset value (NAV). When
measuring the fair value of such funds, the NAV, as provided by the fund sponsor, is corroborated with observable inputs provided by pricing services for the securities. In certain instances, NAVs may require adjustments to more appropriately
reflect the fair value.         On an annual basis, the Company reaffirms its understanding of the valuation techniques used by its
pricing services and corroborates the prices provided for reasonableness by comparing the prices from the respective pricing services to valuations obtained from different pricing sources. If pricing discrepancies are identified between different
pricing sources, the Company evaluates such discrepancies to ensure that the prices used for its valuation represent the fair value of the securities.       

Level 3 assets include investments in private equity and real estate funds valued using a NAV derived from significant un-observable inputs. Where
possible, private equity and real estate investments are valued using a market approach based on inputs such as trading multiples of comparable public companies and current multiples for recent private transactions in similar companies or
properties. If appropriate market data does not exist, investments are valued using an income approach based on a discounted cash flow. Inputs are derived from projected data based on the operating performance of the underlying portfolio company or
investments, or by using third-party appraisals. On an annual basis, the Company evaluates the inputs, assumptions and valuation methodologies of the respective fund managers to ensure that the NAVs are representative of fair value.
        Refer to Note 3 for a discussion related to the three-level fair value hierarchy.   
  The fair value of all defined benefit pension plan assets using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) changed during the years ended December 31
as follows:       
    Benefit Payments      The Company s defined benefit pension plans expect to make benefit payments to retirees as follows:       
    In addition, the Company expects to contribute $46 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2013.   
  DEFINED CONTRIBUTION RETIREMENT PLANS   
  The Company sponsors defined contribution retirement plans, the principal plan being the Retirement Savings Plan (RSP), a 401(k) savings plan with a
profit-sharing component. The RSP is a tax-qualified retirement plan subject to ERISA and covers most employees in the United States. The RSP held 10 million and 11 million shares of American Express Common Stock as of December 31,
2012 and 2011, respectively, beneficially for employees. The Company matches employee before-tax and/or Roth contributions to the plan up to a maximum of 5 percent of total eligible compensation, subject to the limitations under the Internal Revenue
Code (IRC). Additional annual conversion contributions of up to 8 percent of eligible compensation are provided into the RSP for eligible employees. In its sole discretion, the Company may make an annual profit-sharing contribution equal to 0
percent to 5 percent of employees  eligible compensation, and may vary the contribution amount for different groups of employees. Employees need not contribute to the RSP in order to receive a portion of any profit-sharing contribution, but
must be employed on the last working day of the calendar year. Company contributions are subject to employees meeting eligibility criteria. The Company also sponsors the RRP, including RSP related accounts, which is an unfunded non-qualified plan
for employees whose RSP benefits are limited by the IRC and its terms generally parallel those of   
         103   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   
the RSP, except that the definitions of compensation and payment options differ. In addition, the RRP was amended effective January 1, 2011 such that the Company matches employee
contributions up to a maximum of 5 percent of total eligible compensation in excess of IRC compensation limits only to the extent the employee contributes to the RRP.      The total expense for all defined contribution retirement plans globally was $254 million, $252 million and $217 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
  OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS      The
Company sponsors unfunded other postretirement benefit plans that provide health care and life insurance to certain retired U.S. employees.      Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss      The following table provides the amounts comprising
accumulated other comprehensive loss, which are not yet recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost as of December 31:       
    The estimated portion of the net actuarial loss that is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit
cost in 2013 is nil.      The following table lists the amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss in 2012:   

(Millions)    
      
   2012   

Net actuarial gain:   

Reclassified to earnings from
equity (a)    
      
   $   
   (1   
   )     
 
    Gains in current year (b)    

(2   
   )     

Net actuarial gain, pretax   
      
   $   
   (3   
   )     

(a)  
  Amortization of actuarial losses.     

(b)  
  Deferral of actuarial gains.        Benefit
Obligations      The projected benefit obligation represents a liability based upon estimated future medical and other benefits to be provided to
retirees.      The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the projected benefit obligation:   
   
    The plans are unfunded and the obligations as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 are recognized in other liabilities on
the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      Net Periodic Benefit Cost      GAAP provides for the delayed recognition of the net actuarial loss and the net prior service credit remaining in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income.   
  The components of the net periodic benefit cost for all other postretirement benefit plans for the years ended December 31 were as follows:
      
    Assumptions      The weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations were:       
    The weighted-average discount rate used to determine net periodic benefit cost was 4.4 percent, 4.9 percent and 5.4
percent in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The discount rate assumption is determined by using a model consisting of bond portfolios that match the cash flows of the plan s projected benefit payments. Use of the rate produced by this model
generates a projected benefit obligation that equals the current market value of a portfolio of high-quality zero-coupon bonds whose maturity dates and amounts match the timing and amount of expected future benefit payments.   
  A one percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:   

104   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Benefit Payments      The Company s other postretirement benefit plans expect to make benefit payments as follows:       
    In addition, the Company expects to contribute $21 million to its other postretirement benefit plans in 2013.
  
     NOTE 22   
    SIGNIFICANT CREDIT CONCENTRATIONS       Concentrations of credit risk exist when changes in economic, industry or geographic factors similarly affect groups of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure is material in relation to American
Express  total credit exposure. The Company s customers operate in diverse industries, economic sectors and geographic regions.      The
following table details the Company s maximum credit exposure by category, including the credit exposure associated with derivative financial instruments, as of December 31:   

(a)  
  Individuals primarily include cardmember loans and receivables.     

(b)  
  Financial institutions primarily include debt obligations of banks, broker-dealers, insurance companies and savings and loan associations.     

(c)  
  U.S. Government and agencies represent debt obligations of the U.S. Government and its agencies, states and municipalities and government sponsored entities.

(d)  
  All other primarily includes cardmember receivables from other corporate institutions.     

(e)  
  Certain distinctions between categories require management judgment.     

(f)  
  Because charge card products generally have no preset spending limit, the associated credit limit on cardmember receivables is not quantifiable. Therefore, the
quantified unused line-of-credit amounts only include the approximate credit line available on cardmember loans.        As of
December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company s most significant concentration of credit risk was with individuals, including cardmember receivables and loans. These amounts are generally advanced on an unsecured basis. However, the Company
reviews each potential customer s credit application and evaluates the applicant s financial history and ability and willingness to repay. The Company also considers credit performance by customer tenure, industry and geographic location
in managing credit exposure.      The following table details the Company s cardmember loans and receivables exposure (including unused
lines-of-credit on cardmember loans) in the United States and outside the United States as of December 31:       

(a)  
  Represents cardmember loans to individuals as well as receivables from individuals and corporate institutions as discussed in footnotes (a) and (d) from the
previous table.     

(b)  
  The remainder of the Company s on-balance sheet exposure includes cash, investments, other loans, other receivables and other assets including derivative financial
instruments. These balances are primarily within the United States.        EXPOSURE TO AIRLINE INDUSTRY   
  The Company has multiple important co-brand, rewards and corporate payment arrangements with airlines. The Company s largest airline partner is Delta
and this relationship includes exclusive co-brand credit card partnerships and other arrangements including Membership Rewards, merchant acceptance, travel and corporate payments programs. American Express  Delta SkyMiles Credit Card co-brand
portfolio accounts for approximately 5 percent of the Company s worldwide billed business and less than 15 percent of worldwide cardmember loans. Refer to Notes 4 and 8 for further information on receivables and other assets recorded by the
Company relating to these relationships.      In recent years, there have been a significant number of airline bankruptcies and
liquidations, driven in part by volatile fuel costs and weakening economies around the world. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant revenue declines when a particular airline scales back or ceases operations due to a bankruptcy
or other financial challenges because volumes generated by that airline are typically shifted to other participants in the industry that accept the Company s card products. The Company s exposure to business and credit risk in the airline
industry is primarily through business arrangements where the Company has remitted payment to the airline for a cardmember purchase of tickets that have not yet been used or  flown . The Company mitigates this risk by delaying payment to
the airlines with deteriorating financial situations, thereby increasing cash withheld to protect the Company in the event the airline is liquidated. To date, the Company has not experienced significant losses from airlines that have ceased
operations.   
         105   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 23   
    REGULATORY MATTERS AND CAPITAL ADEQUACY       The Company is supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve and is subject to the Federal Reserve s requirements for risk-based capital and leverage ratios. The Company s two U.S. bank
operating subsidiaries, Centurion Bank and FSB (the Banks), are subject to supervision and regulation, including similar regulatory capital requirements by the FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC).   
  The Federal Reserve s guidelines for capital adequacy define two categories of risk-based capital: Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital (as
defined in the regulations). Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the Federal Reserve, the Company is required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and Total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets, as well as a minimum leverage
ratio (Tier 1 capital to average adjusted on-balance sheet assets).      Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate
certain mandatory, and possibly additional, discretionary actions by regulators, that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company s and the Banks  operating activities.   
  As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company and its Banks met all capital requirements to which each was subject and maintain
regulatory capital ratios in excess of those required to qualify as well capitalized.          The following table presents the regulatory capital ratios for the Company and the Banks:       

(a)  
  FSB leverage ratio is calculated using ending total assets as prescribed by OCC regulations applicable to federal savings banks.     

(b)  
  FSB leverage ratio represents Tier 1 core capital ratio (as defined by OCC regulations applicable to federal savings banks), calculated similarly to Tier 1 leverage
ratio.     

(c)  
  Represents requirements for banking subsidiaries to be considered  well-capitalized  pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act. There is no  well-capitalized  definition for the Tier 1 leverage ratio for a bank holding company.     

(d)  
  As defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC.     
      RESTRICTED NET ASSETS OF SUBSIDIARIES   
  Certain of the Company s subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on the transfer of net assets under debt agreements and regulatory requirements.
These restrictions have not had any effect on the Company s shareholder dividend policy and management does not anticipate any impact in the future. Procedures exist to transfer net assets between the Company and its subsidiaries, while
ensuring compliance with the various contractual and regulatory constraints. As of December 31, 2012, the aggregate amount of net assets of subsidiaries that are restricted to be transferred to the Company was approximately $9.4 billion.
     BANK HOLDING COMPANY DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS      The Company is limited in its ability to pay dividends by the Federal Reserve which could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. It is the policy of the
Federal Reserve that bank holding companies generally should pay dividends on common stock only out of net income available to common shareholders generated over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the
organization s current and expected future capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. Moreover, bank holding companies are required by statue to be a source of strength to their insured depository institution subsidiaries and
should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to do so. On an annual basis, the Company is required to develop and maintain a capital plan, which includes planned dividends over a two-year horizon, and to submit the capital plan
to the Federal Reserve for approval.      BANKS  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS      In the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Centurion Bank paid dividends from retained earnings to its parent of $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, and FSB paid dividends from retained
earnings to its parent of $1.5 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively.      The Banks are subject to statutory and regulatory
limitations on their ability to pay dividends. The total amount of dividends which may be paid at any date, subject to supervisory considerations of the Banks  regulators, is generally limited to the retained earnings of the respective bank. As
of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Banks  retained earnings, in the aggregate, available for the payment of dividends were $4.7 billion and $4.6   
         106   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   
billion, respectively. In determining the dividends to pay its parent, the Banks must also consider the effects on applicable risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements, as well as policy
statements of the federal regulatory agencies. In addition, the Banks  banking regulators have authority to limit or prohibit the payment of a dividend by the Banks under a number of circumstances, including, if, in the banking regulator s
opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.   
     NOTE 24   
    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES       LEGAL CONTINGENCIES      The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of legal
proceedings concerning matters arising out of the conduct of their respective business activities and are periodically subject to governmental and regulatory examinations, information gathering requests, subpoenas, inquiries and investigations
(collectively, governmental examinations). As of December 31, 2012, the Company and various of its subsidiaries were named as a defendant or were otherwise involved in numerous legal proceedings and governmental examinations in various
jurisdictions, both in and outside the United States. The Company discloses its material legal proceedings and governmental examinations under  Legal Proceedings  in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012
(Legal Proceedings).      The Company has recorded liabilities for certain of its outstanding legal proceedings and governmental
examinations. A liability is accrued when it is both (a) probable that a loss with respect to the legal proceeding has occurred and (b) the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. As discussed below, there may be instances in which an
exposure to loss exceeds the accrued liability. The Company evaluates, on a quarterly basis, developments in legal proceedings and governmental examinations that could cause an increase or decrease in the amount of the liability that has been
previously accrued or a revision to the disclosed estimated range of possible losses, as applicable.      The Company s legal
proceedings range from cases brought by a single plaintiff to class actions with hundreds of thousands of putative class members. These legal proceedings, as well as governmental examinations, involve various lines of business of the Company and a
variety of claims (including, but not limited to, common law tort, contract, antitrust and consumer protection claims), some of which present novel factual allegations and/or unique legal theories. While some matters pending against the Company
specify the damages claimed by the plaintiff, many seek a not-yet-quantified amount of damages or are at very early stages of the legal process. Even when the amount of damages claimed against the Company are stated, the claimed amount may be
exaggerated and/or unsupported. As a result, some matters have not yet progressed sufficiently through discovery and/or development of important factual information and legal issues to enable the Company to estimate a range of possible loss.
     Other matters have progressed sufficiently through discovery and/or development of important factual information and legal
issues so that the Company is able to estimate a range of possible loss. Accordingly, for those legal proceedings and governmental examinations disclosed or referred to in Legal Proceedings where a loss is reasonably possible in future periods,
whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, and for which the Company is able to estimate a range of possible loss, the current estimated range is zero to $430 million in excess of any accrued liability
related to those matters. This aggregate range represents management s estimate of possible loss with respect to these matters and is based on currently available information. This estimated range of possible loss does not represent the
Company s maximum loss exposure. The legal proceedings and governmental examinations underlying the estimated range will change from time to time and actual results may vary significantly from current estimates.   
  Based on its current knowledge, and taking into consideration its litigation-related liabilities, the Company believes it is not a party
to, nor are any of its properties the subject of, any pending legal proceeding or governmental examination that would have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition or liquidity. However, in light of the
uncertainties involved in such matters, the ultimate outcome of a particular matter could be material to the Company s operating results for a particular period depending on, among other factors, the size of the loss or liability imposed and
the level of the Company s earnings for that period.      VISA AND MASTERCARD SETTLEMENTS   
  As previously disclosed, the Company reached settlement agreements with Visa and MasterCard. Under the terms of the settlement agreements, the Company
received aggregate maximum payments of $4.05 billion. The settlement with Visa comprised an initial payment of $1.13 billion ($700 million after-tax) that was recorded as a gain in 2007. Having met quarterly performance criteria, the Company
recognized $280 million ($172 million after-tax) from Visa in each of the years 2011 and 2010, and $300 million ($186 million after-tax) from   
         107   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   
MasterCard in 2011, and $600 million ($372 million after-tax) from MasterCard in 2010. These payments are included in other, net expenses within Corporate   Other. During the second and
fourth quarter of 2011, the Company received the final payments on the MasterCard and Visa litigation settlements, respectively.      OTHER
CONTINGENCIES      The Company also has contingent obligations to make payments under contractual agreements entered into as part of the ongoing
operation of the Company s business, primarily with co-brand partners. The contingent obligations under such arrangements were approximately $4.1 billion as of December 31, 2012.      RENT EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTS      The Company leases certain facilities and equipment
under noncancelable and cancelable agreements. The total rental expense amounted to $305 million in 2012 (including lease termination penalties of $13 million), $280 million in 2011 and $250 million in 2010.   
  As of December 31, 2012, the minimum aggregate rental commitment under all noncancelable operating leases (net of subleases of $22 million) was as
follows:       
    As of December 31, 2012, the Company s future minimum lease payments under capital leases or other similar
arrangements is approximately $10 million per year from 2013 through 2014, $3 million in 2015 through 2017, and $11 million thereafter.   
     NOTE 25   
    REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS       REPORTABLE OPERATING SEGMENTS      The Company is a leading global payments and travel company
that is principally engaged in businesses comprising four reportable operating segments: USCS, ICS, GCS and GNMS.      The Company
considers a combination of factors when evaluating the composition of its reportable operating segments, including the results reviewed by the chief operating decision maker, economic characteristics, products and services offered, classes of
customers, product distribution channels, geographic considerations (primarily United States versus non-U.S.), and regulatory environment considerations. The following is a brief description of the primary business activities of the Company s
four reportable operating segments:       

USCS issues a wide range of card products and services to consumers and small businesses in the United States, and provides consumer travel services to
cardmembers and other consumers.          

ICS issues proprietary consumer and small business cards outside the United States.      

GCS offers global corporate payment and travel-related products and services to large and mid-sized companies.      

GNMS operates a global payments network which processes and settles proprietary and non-proprietary card transactions. GNMS acquires merchants and
provides point-of-sale products, multi-channel marketing programs and capabilities, services and data, leveraging the Company s global closed-loop network. It provides ATM services and enters into partnership agreements with third-party card
issuers and acquirers, licensing the American Express brand and extending the reach of the global network.         Corporate
functions and auxiliary businesses, including the Company s publishing business, the Enterprise Growth Group (including Global Payment Options), as well as other Company operations are included in Corporate   Other.   
         108   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   The following table presents certain selected financial information as of or for the years ended
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.       

(a)  
  Corporate   Other includes adjustments and eliminations for intersegment activity.     
      Total Revenues Net of Interest Expense   
  The Company allocates discount revenue and certain other revenues among segments using a transfer pricing methodology. Segments earn discount revenue
based on the volume of merchant business generated by cardmembers. Within the USCS, ICS and GCS segments, discount revenue reflects the issuer component of the overall discount rate; within the GNMS segment, discount revenue reflects the network and
merchant component of the overall discount rate. Total interest income and net card fees are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported.      Provisions for Losses      The provisions for losses are directly attributable to the segment in
which they are reported.      Expenses      Marketing, promotion, rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred, with the exception of brand advertising, which is reflected in the GNMS
segment. Rewards and cardmember services expenses are reflected in each segment based on actual expenses incurred within each segment. Salaries and employee benefits and other operating expenses reflect expenses such as professional services,
occupancy and equipment and communications incurred directly within each segment. In addition, expenses related to the Company s support services, such as technology costs, are allocated to each segment based on support service activities
directly attributable to the segment.      Other overhead expenses, such as staff group support functions, are allocated from
Corporate   Other to the other segments based on each segment s relative level of pretax income. Financing requirements are managed on a consolidated basis. Funding costs are allocated based on segment funding requirements.
     Capital      Each business segment
is allocated capital based on established business model operating requirements, risk measures and regulatory capital requirements. Business model operating requirements include capital needed to support operations and specific balance sheet items.
The risk measures include considerations for credit, market and operational risk.      Income Taxes   
  An income tax provision (benefit) is allocated to each business segment based on the effective tax rates applicable to various businesses that make up the
segment.   
         109   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   GEOGRAPHIC OPERATIONS      The following table presents the Company s total revenues net of interest expense and pretax income (loss) from continuing operations in different geographic regions:   

(a)  
  EMEA represents Europe, Middle East and Africa; JAPA represents Japan, Asia/Pacific and Australia; and LACC represents Latin America, Canada and Caribbean.

(b)  
  Other Unallocated includes net costs which are not directly allocable to specific geographic regions, including costs related to the net negative interest spread on
excess liquidity funding and executive office operations expenses.     

(c)  
  The data in the above table is, in part, based upon internal allocations, which necessarily involve management s judgment.     
     
         110   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 26   
    PARENT COMPANY       Parent Company   Condensed Statements of Income       
    Parent Company   Condensed Balance Sheets   
   
    SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE      The Parent Company guarantees up to $40 million of indebtedness under a line of credit that its subsidiary has with a bank. As of December 31, 2012, there were no draw downs against this line.
  
         111   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          
   Parent Company   Condensed Statements of Cash Flows   

112   

Table of Contents  

AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          

     NOTE 27   
    QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)        

(a)  
  The results of operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2012 included a $400 million restructuring charge ($287 million after-tax), a $342 million Membership
Rewards expense ($212 million after-tax) and $153 million ($95 million after-tax) of cardmember reimbursements. The $153 million includes amounts related to prior periods, with $49 million relating to the first three quarters of 2012 and $83 million
relating to periods prior to January 1, 2012. The Company has assessed the materiality of these errors on all prior periods and concluded that the impact was not material to those prior periods or to any quarter or full year for 2012.

113   

Table of Contents  

     AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY   
   CONSOLIDATED FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

(a)  
  Return on average equity is calculated by dividing one-year period of net income by one-year average of total shareholders  equity.     

(b)  
  In the first quarter of 2012, the Company reclassified $913 million and $206 million on the December 31, 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively,
by increasing short-term borrowings and reducing other liabilities, from amounts previously reported in order to correct the effect of a misclassification.     

(c)  
  Amounts include employees from discontinued operations.     
         114   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 10
 d486442dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

EXHIBIT 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT        Unless otherwise indicated, all of the
voting securities of these subsidiaries are directly or indirectly owned by the registrant. Where the name of the subsidiary is indented, the voting securities of such subsidiary are owned directly by the company under which its name is indented.

Name    
      
     Country Name    
      
     State / Country of Incorporation     

American Express Company   
      
  United States  
      
  New York   
 
    56th Street AXP Campus LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Arizona   
 
    American Express Austria Bank GmbH   
      
  Austria  
      
  Austria   
 
    American Express Bank LLC   
      
  Russian Federation  
      
  Russia   
 
    American Express Bank Ltd. S.A.   
      
  Argentina  
      
  Argentina   
 
    American Express Banking Corp.   
      
  United States  
      
  New York   
 
    American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  New York   
 
    Accertify, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Bank (Mexico) S.A. Institucion de Banca Multiple   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    American Express Bank Services, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    American Express Bank, FSB   
      
  United States  

American Express Receivables Financing Corporation IV LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Business Loan Corporation   
      
  United States  
      
  Utah   
 
    American Express Centurion Bank   
      
  United States  
      
  Utah   
 
    American Express Receivables Financing Corporation III LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Company (Mexico) S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    American Express Insurance Services, Agente de Seguros, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    American Express Servicios Profesionales, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    American Express Credit Corporation   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Capital Australia   
      
  Australia  
      
    Australia     
 
    American Express Credit Mexico, LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fideicomiso Empresarial Amex   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    American Express Overseas Credit Corporation Limited   
      
  Jersey  
      
  Jersey   
 
    AEOCC Management Company Limited   
      
  Jersey  
      
  Jersey   
 
    American Express Funding (Luxembourg) S.a.r.l   
      
  Luxembourg  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    American Express Overseas Credit Corporation N.V.   
      
  Netherlands Antilles  
      
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
    AE Hungary Holdings Limited Liability Company   
      
  Hungary  
      
  Hungary   
 
    American Express Canada Credit Corporation   
      
  Canada  
      
  Canada   
 
    American Express Canada Finance Limited   
      
  Canada  
      
  Canada   
 
    American Express Jersey Finance Limited   
      
  Jersey  
      
  Jersey   
 
    Credco Receivables Corp.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express GP Japan K.K.   
      
  Japan  
      
  Japan   
 
    American Express Insurance Agency of Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  Puerto Rico  
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    American Express International (NZ), Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Limited   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express (Malaysia) SDN. BHD.   
      
  Malaysia  
      
  Malaysia   
 
    American Express Brasil Assessoria Empresarial Ltda.   
      
  Brazil  
      
  Brazil   
 
    American Express de Espana, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    American Express Card Espana, S.A.U.   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    American Express Foreign Exchange, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    American Express Viajes, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    American Express Barcelo Viajes SL   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    Amex Asesores de Seguros, S.A. (Sociedad Unipersonal)   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    American Express European Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Alpha Card S.C.R.L./C.V.B.A.   
      
  Belgium  
      
  Belgium   
 
    Alpha Card Merchant Services S.C.R.L./C.V.B.A.   
      
  Belgium  
      
  Belgium   
 
    BCC Corporate NV/SA   
      
  Belgium  
      
  Belgium   
 
    American Express International (B) SDN BHD   
      
  Brunei  
      
  Brunei    
         1   

Name    
      
     Country Name    
      
     State /Country of Incorporation     

American Express International, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    AE Exposure Management Limited   
      
  Jersey  
      
  Jersey   
 
    American Express (India) Private Limited   
      
  India  
      
    India     
 
    American Express (Thai) Company Limited   
      
  Thailand  
      
  Thailand   
 
    American Express Advanced Services Europe Limited.   
      
  Argentina  
      
  Argentina   
 
    American Express Asia Network Consulting (Beijing) Limited Company   
      
  China  
      
  China   
 
    American Express Continental, LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Australia Limited   
      
  Australia  
      
    Australia    
 
    American Express Wholesale Currency Services Pty Limited   
      
  Australia  
      
    Australia     
 
    Centurion Finance Limited   
      
  New Zealand  
      
  New Zealand   
 
    American Express Dutch Capital, LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Euro Travel Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    American Express Business Travel AB   
      
  Sweden  
      
  Sweden   
 
    American Express Business Travel ApS   
      
  Denmark  
      
  Denmark   
 
    American Express Business Travel AS   
      
  Norway  
      
  Norway   
 
    American Express Corporate Travel BVBA   
      
  Belgium  
      
  Belgium   
 
    American Express Hungary Travel Related Services Ltd.   
      
  Hungary  
      
  Hungary   
 
    American Express Poland S.A.   
      
  Poland  
      
  Poland   
 
    American Express Travel Services Vostok LLC   
      
  Russian Federation  
      
  Russia   
 
    American Express, spol. s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic  
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Uvet American Express Corporate Travel S.p.A.   
      
  Italy  
      
  Italy   
 
    Congress Lab S.r.l.   
      
  Italy  
      
  Italy   
 
    Amex Funding Management (Europe) Limited   
      
  Jersey  
      
  Jersey   
 
    Loyalty Partner Holdings S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    LB Luxembourg Two S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Loyalty Partner GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  Germany   
 
    Loyalty Partner Singapore Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore  
      
  Singapore   
 
    Loyalty Solutions   Research Pte Ltd.   
      
  India  
      
  India   
 
    Loyalty Partner Solutions GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  Germany   
 
    LP Management Verwaltung GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  Germany   
 
    Payback GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  Germany   
 
    emnos GmbH   
      
  Germany  
      
  Germany   
 
    emnos Iberia S.L   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    emnos S.a.r.l.   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    emnos UK Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    emnos USA Corp.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Loyalty Partner Polska Sp. z.o.o.   
      
  Poland  
      
  Poland   
 
    Loyalty Partner Polska Sp. z.o.o. Sp. komandytowa   
      
  Poland  
      
  Poland   
 
    Amex Global Holdings C.V.   
      
  Jersey  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Amex NL Holdings 99, LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Holdings Netherlands CV   
      
  Netherlands  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Loyalty Partner Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Loyalty Partner Services M xico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    Payback Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V   
      
  Mexico  
      
  Mexico   
 
    American Express Denmark A/S   
      
  Denmark  
      
  Denmark   
 
    American Express Europe Limited   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Group Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    American Express Holding AB   
      
  Sweden  
      
  Sweden   
 
    Forsakringsaktiebolaget Viator   
      
  Sweden  
      
  Sweden   
 
    American Express Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    American Express Services Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    American Express International (Taiwan), Inc.   
      
  Taiwan  
      
  Taiwan   
 
    American Express International Holdings, LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware    
         2   

Name    
      
     Country Name    
      
     State /Country of Incorporation     

American Express Argentina S.A.   
      
  Argentina  
      
  Argentina   
 
    American Express Holdings (France) SAS   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express France SAS   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express Canada Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Amex Broker Assicurativo s.r.l.   
      
  Italy  
      
  Italy   
 
    Amex Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada  
      
  Canada   
 
    American Express Carte France SA   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express Services SA   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express Paris SAS   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express Voyages SAS   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express Management   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express France Finance SNC   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    American Express International SA   
      
  Greece  
      
  Greece   
 
    American Express Japan Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan  
      
  Japan   
 
    American Express Locazioni Finanziarie s.r.l.   
      
  Italy  
      
  Italy   
 
    American Express Payment Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    American Express Services India Limited   
      
  India  
      
    India     
 
    American Express Swiss Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Swisscard AECS AG   
      
  Switzerland  
      
  Switzerland   
 
    American Express Technology Service (Hangzhou) Company Limited   
      
  China  
      
  China   
 
    American Express Travel (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore  
      
  Singapore   
 
    American Express Travel Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    CITS American Express Air Services Limited   
      
  China  
      
  China   
 
    CITS American Express Southern China Air Services Limited   
      
  China  
      
  China   
 
    CITS American Express Travel Services Limited   
      
  China  
      
  China   
 
    Farrington American Express Travel Services Limited   
      
  Hong Kong  
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Amex General Insurance Agency, Inc.   
      
  Taiwan  
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Amex Life Insurance Marketing, Inc.   
      
  Taiwan  
      
  Taiwan   
 
    Amex Taiwan Trust   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Amex Travel Holding (Japan) Limited   
      
  Japan  
      
  Japan   
 
    American Express Nippon Travel Agency, Inc.   
      
  Japan  
      
  Japan   
 
    Interactive Transaction Solutions Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Interactive Transactions Solutions SAS   
      
  France  
      
  France   
 
    Sociedad Internacional de Servicios de Panama S.A.   
      
  Panama  
      
  Panama   
 
    American Express Service (Thailand) Company Limited   
      
  Thailand  
      
  Thailand   
 
    PT American Express Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia  
      
  Indonesia   
 
    American Express Marketing   Development Corp.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Prepaid Card Management Corporation   
      
  United States  
      
  Arizona   
 
    American Express Publishing Corporation   
      
  United States  
      
  New York   
 
    American Express Receivables Financing Corporation II   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Receivables Financing Corporation V LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    American Express Receivables Financing Corporation VIII LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Amex (Middle East) B.S.C. (closed)   
      
  Bahrain  
      
  Bahrain   
 
    Amex (Saudi Arabia) Limited   
      
  Saudi Arabia  
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Amex Al Omania LLC   
      
  Oman  
      
  Oman   
 
    Amex Egypt Company Limited Liability Company   
      
  Egypt  
      
  Egypt   
 
    Amex Bank of Canada   
      
  Canada  
      
  Canada   
 
    Amex Card Services Company   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Amex Services, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    vente-privee USA, LLC   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Asesor as e Inversiones American Express Chile Limitada   
      
  Chile  
      
  Chile   
 
    Bansamex, S.A.   
      
  Spain  
      
  Spain   
 
    Cavendish Holdings, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Serve Virtual Enterprises, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sometrics, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  California   
 
    Southern Africa Travellers Cheque Company (Pty) Ltd   
      
  South Africa  
      
  South Africa    
         3   

Name    
      
     Country Name    
      
     State /Country of Incorporation     

Travel Impressions, Ltd.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Travellers Cheque Associates Limited   
      
  United Kingdom  
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    AMEX Assurance Company   
      
  United States  
      
  Arizona   
 
    AMEXCO Insurance Company   
      
  United States  
      
  Vermont   
 
    National Express Company, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  New York   
 
    Rexport, Inc.   
      
  United States  
      
  Delaware   
 
         4   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 d486442dex231.htm
 EX-23.1

EX-23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1    
   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 33-53801, No. 333-52699, No. 333-98479 and No. 333-142710), Form S-3
(No. 2-89469, No. 333-32525 and No. 333-185242), and Form S-4 (No. 333-185969) of American Express Company of our report dated February 22, 2013, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      New York, New York   
  February 22, 2013   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 d486442dex311.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1         CERTIFICATION        I, Kenneth I. Chenault, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of American Express Company;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 22, 2013      /s/ Kenneth I. Chenault      Kenneth I. Chenault   
  Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 d486442dex312.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2         CERTIFICATION        I, Daniel T. Henry, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of American Express Company;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared;      (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such
internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles;      (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   
  (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the
registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which
are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   
  Date: February 22, 2013      /s/ Daniel T. Henry      Daniel T. Henry   
  Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 d486442dex321.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1        Certification Pursuant to        18 U.S.C. Section 1350,    
   as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection with the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of American Express Company (the  Company ) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Kenneth I. Chenault, as Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   
  /s/ Kenneth I. Chenault   
  Name:    Kenneth I. Chenault   
  Title:      Chief Executive Officer      Date:      February 22, 2013      The foregoing certification is being
furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and is not being  filed  as part of the Form 10-K or as a separate disclosure document for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or otherwise subject to liability under that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except to the extent that this Exhibit 32.1 is expressly and specifically incorporated by reference in any such filing.      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 15
 d486442dex322.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2        Certification Pursuant to        18 U.S.C. Section 1350,    
   as Adopted Pursuant to        Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       In connection with the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of American Express Company (the  Company ) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Daniel T. Henry, as Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.   
  /s/ Daniel T. Henry   
  Name:    Daniel T. Henry   
  Title:      Chief Financial Officer      Date:      February 22, 2013      The foregoing certification is being
furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and is not being  filed  as part of the Form 10-K or as a separate disclosure document for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or otherwise subject to liability under that section. This certification shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act except to the extent that this Exhibit 32.2 is expressly and specifically incorporated by reference in any such filing.      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its
staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 axp-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 axp-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 axp-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 axp-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 axp-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 axp-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

