<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080227_10-K_edgar_data_899051_0001047469-08-001846_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4610737</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>914014</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5473</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2860792</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>184</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-08-001846.hdr.sgml : 20080227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080227171932
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-08-001846
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALLSTATE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000899051
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				363871531
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11840
		FILM NUMBER:		08647502

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8474025000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UMm1Vu4BMyXsyQHOStcyddsxQjsxPgvV/i/PZ4TCQnXXO3E6UAos5wYKkFwWJ+Gb
 hj5fZDc+HyXfHGkBRrxwjA==

 0001047469-08-001846.txt : 20080227

10-K
 1
 a2182971z10-k.htm
 10-K

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

   FORM 10-K     

Commission file number 1-11840     

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 402-5000   

            Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class on which registered      
     
   Name of each exchange    

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange 
 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   

  Yes                            No    

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   

  Yes                            No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.   

  Yes                            No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-accelerated filer     
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
  Smaller reporting company      

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   

  Yes                            No    

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the last
business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, June 30, 2007, was approximately $35.89 billion.   

            As
of January 31, 2008, the registrant had 560,420,277 shares of common stock outstanding.   

   Documents Incorporated By Reference     

            Portions
of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference as follows:   

Part III
of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders meeting
to be held on May 20, 2008 (the "Proxy Statement") to be filed not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents     

Page    

PART I  

Item 1. Business  
     
  1  

Goal  
     
  1  

Allstate Protection Segment  
     
  1  

Allstate Financial Segment  
     
  4  

Other Business Segments  
     
  7  

Reserve for Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense  
     
  7  

Regulation  
     
  12  

Internet Website  
     
  15  

Other Information about Allstate  
     
  16  

Executive Officers  
     
  17  

Item 1A. Risk Factors  
     
  18  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  
     
  28  

Item 2. Properties  
     
  28  

Item 3. Legal Proceedings  
     
  28  

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  
     
  28  

PART II  

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholders Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
     
  29  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data  
     
  31  

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
     
  32  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
     
  135  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
     
  135  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
     
  227  

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  
     
  227  

Item 9B. Other Information  
     
  227  

PART III  

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
     
  230  

Item 11. Executive Compensation  
     
  230  

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
     
  230  

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
     
  231  

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
     
  231  

PART IV  

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
     
  232  

Signatures  
     
  236  

Financial Statement Schedules  
     
  S-1  

Part I     

   Item 1. Business     

          The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992 to serve as the holding company for Allstate
Insurance Company. Its business is conducted principally through Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company and their affiliates (collectively, including The Allstate Corporation,
"Allstate"). Allstate is primarily engaged in the personal property and casualty insurance business and the life insurance, retirement and investment products business. It conducts its business
primarily in the United States.   

          The
Allstate Corporation is the largest publicly held personal lines insurer in the United States. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate " slogan,
Allstate provides insurance products to more than 17 million households through a distribution network that utilizes a total of approximately 14,900 exclusive agencies and exclusive financial
specialists in the United States and Canada. Allstate is the second-largest personal property and casualty insurer in the United States on the basis of 2006 statutory premiums earned. In addition,
according to A.M. Best, it is the nation's 12 th  largest issuer of life insurance business on the basis of 2006 ordinary life insurance in force and
16 th  largest on the basis of 2006 statutory admitted assets.   

          Allstate
has four business segments:   

Allstate Protection  
     
    Discontinued Lines and Coverages  

Allstate Financial  
     
    Corporate and Other  

In this annual report on Form 10-K, we occasionally refer to statutory financial information that has been prepared in
accordance with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Accounting Practices and Procedure Manual ("Manual"). All domestic United States insurance companies are required to prepare
statutory-basis financial statements in accordance with the Manual. As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors that are not
subject to the requirement to prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). We frequently use industry publications containing
statutory financial information to assess our competitive position.   

          Allstate's
goal is to reinvent protection and retirement for the consumer. We help people realize their hopes and dreams through products and services designed to protect them from
life's uncertainties and to prepare them for the future. To achieve this goal, Allstate is focused on the following operating priorities: consumer focus, operational excellence, enterprise risk and
return, and capital management. In addition, we will continue to monitor market conditions and will consider business start-ups, acquisitions and alliances that would represent prudent
uses of corporate capital and would forward our business objectives.   

   ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT     

   Products and Distribution     

          Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 94% of Allstate's 2007 consolidated insurance premiums and contract charges. In this segment, we sell principally
private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, primarily through agencies. These products are marketed under the Allstate, Encompass  and Deerbrook  brand names.   

          Allstate
brand auto and homeowners insurance products are sold primarily through Allstate exclusive agencies and, to a lesser extent, through independent agencies in areas not served by
exclusive agencies.   

  1  

Encompass
brand auto and homeowners insurance products as well as Deerbrook brand auto insurance products are sold through independent agencies.   

In
many states, consumers also can purchase certain Allstate brand personal insurance products and obtain service through our Customer Information Centers.   

          Our
broad-based network of approximately 13,200 Allstate exclusive agencies in approximately 12,300 locations in the U.S. produced approximately 86% of the Allstate Protection segment's
written premiums in 2007. The rest was generated primarily by approximately 10,300 independent agencies. We are among the five largest providers of personal property and casualty insurance products
through independent agencies in the United States, based on statutory written premium information provided by A.M. Best for 2006.   

We
sell a variety of other personal property and casualty insurance products, including landlords, personal umbrella, renters, condominium, residential fire, manufactured housing, boat
owners, loan protection and selected commercial property and casualty products and we participate in the "involuntary" or "shared" private passenger auto insurance business in order to maintain our
licenses to do business in many states. Through Allstate Motor Club, Inc. we also provide emergency road service. In some states, Allstate exclusive agencies offer non-proprietary property
insurance products.   

   Competition     

          The markets for personal private passenger auto and homeowners insurance are highly competitive. The following charts provide the market shares of our principal
competitors in the U.S. by direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2006 (the most recent date such competitive information is available) according to A. M. Best.   

In
the personal property and casualty insurance market, we compete principally on the basis of the recognition of our brands, the scope of our distribution system, price, the breadth of
our product offerings, product features, customer service, claim handling, and use of technology. In addition, our proprietary database of underwriting and pricing experience enables Allstate to use
"Tiered Pricing" to more accurately price risks and to cross sell products within our customer base. "Tiered Pricing" is the term that we use to describe our sophisticated process for segmenting a
market.   

          Tiered
Pricing and related underwriting and marketing programs use a number of risk evaluation factors. For auto insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to vehicle make,
model and year; driver age and marital status; territory; years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier, prior liability limits, prior lapse in coverage; and insurance scoring based
on credit report information. For property insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to amount of insurance purchased; geographic location of the property; loss history; age and
construction characteristics of the property; and insurance scoring based on credit report information.   

Our
primary focus in using Tiered Pricing has been on acquiring and retaining new business. The program is designed to enhance Allstate's competitive position with respect to "high
lifetime value" market segments while maintaining or improving profitability. "Lifetime value" is the discounted value of a   

  2  

customer's
future cash flow stream. To estimate a customer's lifetime value score, we analyze characteristics about the customer (for example, age, marital status and driving record) and
characteristics about the product the customer has purchased (for example: coverages, limits, and descriptors of the asset insured) on the basis of historic data patterns and trends. Because future
loss and retention patterns of customers vary significantly, the distribution of lifetime values for a large group of customers will vary from very negative to very positive. "High lifetime value"
generally refers to customers who potentially present more favorable prospects for profitability over the course of their relationships with us.   

          Allstate 
Your Choice Auto insurance allows qualified customers to choose from a variety of optional auto insurance packages at various prices that we believe differentiate
Allstate from its competitors, and allow for increased growth and increased retention. Allstate  Your Choice Homeowners allows qualified customers to choose from options such as a
claim-free bonus and greater ability to tailor their own home insurance protection coverage. Allstate Blue SM  is our new non-standard auto insurance product which
offers features such as a loyalty bonus and roadside assistance coverage.   

   Geographic Markets     

          The principal geographic markets for our auto, homeowners and other personal property and casualty products are in the United States. Through various
subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of personal property and casualty insurance products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. We also sell personal property
and casualty insurance products in Canada through a distribution system similar to that used in the United States.   

The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of premiums earned for the Allstate Protection segment for the year ended December 31, 2007,
based on information contained in
statements filed with state insurance departments. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of the premiums earned for the segment.   

We
continue to take actions to support earning an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the variability in our earnings, while providing quality
protection to our customers. Accordingly, we expect to continue to adjust underwriting practices with respect to our property business in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure.   

   Additional Information     

          Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Protection segment is contained in Note 18 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 18 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to our property-liability operations, which includes
our Allstate Protection segment and our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

          Information
regarding the amount of premium earned for Allstate Protection segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II,
Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, page 56, in the table regarding premiums earned by brand. That table is
incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

  3  

ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT     

   Products and Distribution     

          Our Allstate Financial segment provides life insurance, retirement and investment products, and voluntary accident and health insurance products to individual and
institutional customers. Our principal individual products are fixed annuities including deferred, immediate and indexed; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary
accident and health insurance. We also distribute variable annuities through our bank distribution partners, however this product is fully reinsured with an unaffiliated entity. Our principal
institutional product is funding agreements backing medium term notes. Banking products and services are also offered to customers through the Allstate Bank. The table on page 5 lists our major
distribution channels for this segment, with the associated products and targeted customers.   

          As
the table indicates, we sell Allstate Financial products to individuals through multiple intermediary distribution channels, including Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive
financial specialists, independent agents, banks, broker-dealers, and specialized structured settlement brokers. We have distribution relationships with approximately 60 percent of the 75
largest banks, most of the national broker-dealers, a number of regional brokerage firms and many independent broker-dealers. We sell products through independent agents affiliated with approximately
150 master brokerage agencies. Independent workplace enrolling agents and Allstate exclusive agencies also sell our voluntary accident and health insurance products primarily to employees of small and
medium size firms. We sell funding agreements to unaffiliated trusts used to back medium term notes.   

  4  

Allstate Financial Distribution Channels, Products and Target Customers     

Distribution Channel    
     
   Proprietary Products    
     
   Target Customers    

Allstate exclusive agencies    
(Allstate Exclusive Agents and Allstate Exclusive Financial Specialists)  
     
  Term life insurance 
Interest sensitive life insurance 
Variable life insurance 
Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and market value adjusted "MVA") 
Immediate fixed annuities 
Bank products 
(Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, savings accounts, checking accounts, first mortgage loans, home equity loans and Allstate Agency loans) 
Workplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance (Interest sensitive and term life insurance; disability income insurance; cancer, accident, critical illness and heart/stroke insurance; hospital indemnity; limited benefit medical insurance;
and dental insurance)  
     
  Middle market consumers (1)  with retirement and family financial protection needs  

Independent agents    
(through master brokerage agencies)  

Term life insurance 
Interest sensitive life insurance 
Variable life insurance 
Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and MVA) 
Immediate fixed annuities  

Mass market (2)  and mass affluent consumers (3)  with retirement and financial protection needs  

Independent agents    
(as workplace enrolling agents)  

Workplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance (Interest sensitive and term life insurance; disability income insurance; cancer, accident, critical illness and heart/stroke insurance; hospital indemnity; limited benefit medical insurance;
and dental insurance)  

Middle market consumers with family financial protection needs employed by small, medium, and large size firms  

Banks   

Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and MVA) 
Single premium fixed life insurance 
Variable annuities fully reinsured with an unaffiliated entity  

Middle market consumers with retirement needs  

Broker-dealers   

Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and MVA) 
Single premium variable life insurance  

Mass market and mass affluent consumers with retirement needs  

Structured settlement annuity brokers   

Structured settlement annuities  

Typically used to fund or annuitize large claims or litigation settlements  

Broker-dealers    
(Funding agreements)  

Funding agreements backing medium term notes  

Institutional and individual investors  

(1)    Consumers
with $50,000-$125,000 in household income
      (2)    Consumers
with $50,000-$75,000 in household income
      (3)    Consumers
with $75,000-$125,000 in household income    
  5  

Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists also sell the following non-proprietary products in addition to
Allstate Financial products: mutual funds, variable annuities, and long-term care insurance.   

   Competition     

          We compete on a wide variety of factors, including the scope of our distribution systems, the breadth of our product offerings, the recognition of our brands, our
financial strength and ratings, our differentiated product features and prices, and the level of customer service that we provide. With regard to funding agreements, we compete principally on the
basis of our financial strength and ratings.   

          The
market for life insurance, retirement and investment products continues to be highly fragmented and competitive. As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately 720 groups
of life insurance companies in the United States, most of which offered one or more similar products. According to A.M. Best, as of December 31, 2006, the Allstate Financial segment is
the nation's 12 th  largest issuer of life insurance and related business on the basis of 2006 ordinary life insurance in force and 16 th  largest on the basis of
2006 statutory admitted assets. In addition, because many of these products include a savings or investment component, our competition includes domestic and foreign securities firms, investment
advisors, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Competitive pressure continues to grow due to several factors, including cross marketing alliances between unaffiliated businesses, as
well as consolidation activity in the financial services industry.   

   Geographic Markets     

          We sell life insurance, retirement and investment, and voluntary accident and health insurance products throughout the United States. Through subsidiaries, we are
authorized to sell various types of these products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. We sell funding agreements in the United States and in the
Cayman Islands.   

          The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment for the year ended
December 31, 2007, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments.   

Approximately 99 percent of the statutory premiums and annuity considerations generated in Delaware represent deposits received in
connection with funding agreements sold to trusts domiciled in Delaware. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the statutory premiums and annuity considerations.   

   Additional Information     

          Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Financial segment is contained in Note 18 of
the Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 18 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to the Allstate Financial segment. Note 18 is
incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

          Information
regarding premiums and contract charges for Allstate Financial segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II,
Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, page 88, in the table that summarizes premiums and contract charges by product.
That table is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

  6  

OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENTS     

          Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations. Note 18 of the Consolidated
Financial Statements contains information regarding the revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our Corporate and Other segment over the last three years.   

Our
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for certain commercial and other business in
run-off. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises in this segment. Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information
for the last three years regarding revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our property-liability operations, which includes both our Allstate Protection segment and
our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

RESERVE FOR PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE     

          The following information regarding reserves applies to all of our property-liability operations, encompassing both the Allstate Protection segment and the
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

   Reconciliation of Claims Reserves     

          The following tables are summary reconciliations of the beginning and ending property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves, displayed
individually for each of the last three years. The first table presents reserves on a gross (before reinsurance) basis. The end of year gross reserve balances are reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position. The second table presents reserves on a net (after reinsurance) basis. The total net property-liability insurance claims and claims expense amounts are reflected in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

  7  

(1)    Reserves
for claims and claims expense are net of reinsurance of $2.21 billion, $2.26 billion and $3.19 billion at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.    
  8  

The year-end 2007 gross reserves of $18.87 billion for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense, as determined under GAAP, were $3.45 billion more
than the net reserve balance of $15.42 billion recorded on the basis of statutory accounting practices for reports provided to state regulatory authorities. The principal differences are
reinsurance recoverables from third parties totaling $2.21 billion that reduce reserves for statutory reporting and are recorded as assets for GAAP reporting, and a liability for the reserves
of the Canadian subsidiaries for $1.07 billion. Remaining differences are due to variations in requirements between GAAP and statutory reporting.   

          As
the tables above illustrate, Allstate's net reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense at the end of 2006 decreased in 2007 by $172 million, compared to
reestimates of the gross reserves of a decrease of $70 million. Net reserve reestimates in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were more favorable than the gross reserve reestimates due to reinsurance
cessions.   

   Loss Reserve Reestimates     

          The following Loss Reserve Reestimates table illustrates the change over time of the net reserves established for property-liability insurance claims and claims
expense at the end of the last eleven calendar years. The first section shows the reserves as originally reported at the end of the stated year. The second section, reading down, shows the cumulative
amounts paid as of the end of successive years with respect to that reserve liability. The third section, reading down, shows retroactive reestimates of the original recorded reserve as of the end of
each successive year which is the result of Allstate's expanded awareness of additional facts and circumstances that pertain to the unsettled claims. The last section compares the latest reestimated
reserve to the reserve originally established, and indicates whether the original reserve was adequate to cover the estimated costs of unsettled claims. The table also presents the gross reestimated
liability as of the end of the latest reestimation period, with separate disclosure of the related reestimated reinsurance recoverable. The Loss Reserve Reestimates table is cumulative and, therefore,
ending balances should not be added since the amount at the end of each calendar year includes activity for both the current and prior years. Unfavorable reserve reestimates are shown in this table in
parenthesis.   

  9  

Loss Reserve Reestimates     

Amount of Reestimates for Each Segment     

As shown in the above table, the subsequent cumulative increase in the net reserves established from December 31, 1997 to
December 31, 2002 reflects additions to reserves in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages Segment, primarily for asbestos and environmental liabilities, which offset the effects of favorable
severity trends experienced by Allstate Protection, as discussed more fully below. The decreases   

  10  

in
net reserves established as of December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2006 reflects favorable reestimates as more fully discussed below.   

          The
following table is derived from the Loss Reserve Reestimates table and summarizes the effect of reserve reestimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations for the
ten-year period ended December 31, 2007. The total of each column details the amount of reserve reestimates made in the indicated calendar year and shows the accident years to which
the reestimates are applicable. The amounts in the total accident year column on the far right represent the cumulative reserve reestimates for the indicated accident year(s). Favorable reserve
reestimates are shown in this table in parenthesis.   

   Effect of Net Reserve Reestimates on 
Calendar Year Operations     

In 2007, favorable prior year reserve estimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto severity development that was less than what was
anticipated in previous estimates. Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to environmental liabilities reported by the
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

          In
2006, 2005 and 2004, favorable prior year reserve estimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto injury severity and late reported loss development that was less than what
was anticipated in previous reserve estimates and in 2006, also by catastrophe losses that were less than anticipated in previous estimates. Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more
than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to asbestos liabilities reported by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

          In
2003, unfavorable prior year reserve estimates were due to increases primarily related to asbestos and other discontinued lines, partially offset by favorable Allstate Protection auto
injury severity and late reported loss development that was better than previous estimates.   

          In
2002, unfavorable prior year reserve estimates were due to claim severity and late reported losses for Allstate Protection that were greater than what was anticipated in previous
reserve estimates and to increased estimates of losses primarily related to asbestos and environmental liabilities in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

          In
2001, unfavorable prior year reserve estimates were due to greater volume of late reported weather related losses than expected from the end of the year 2000 which were reported in
the year 2001, additional incurred losses on the 1994 Northridge earthquake, adverse results of class action and other litigation, upward reestimates of property losses and upward reestimates of
losses in the Encompass and Canadian businesses.   

  11  

Favorable
calendar year reserve reestimates in 1998 through 2000 were the result of favorable severity trends in each of the three years for Allstate Protection, which more than offset
adverse reestimates in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment, primarily for asbestos and environmental liabilities, virtually all of which relates to 1984 and prior years. The favorable
severity trend during this period was primarily the result of favorable injury severity trends, as compared to our anticipated trends. Favorable injury severity trends were largely due to more
moderate medical cost inflation and the mitigating effects of our loss management programs.   

For
additional information regarding reserves, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Property-Liability Claims and Claims
Expense Reserves."   

   REGULATION     

          Allstate is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level. The method, extent and substance of such regulation varies by state but generally has
its source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that delegate regulatory authority to a state regulatory agency. In general, such
regulation is intended for the protection of those who purchase or use insurance products issued by our subsidiaries, not the holders of securities issued by The Allstate
Corporation. These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters including insurance company licensing and examination, agent and adjuster licensing, price
setting, trade practices, policy forms, accounting methods, the nature and amount of investments, claims practices, participation in shared markets and guaranty funds, reserve adequacy, insurer
solvency, transactions with affiliates, the payment of dividends, and underwriting standards. Some of these matters are discussed in more detail below. For a discussion of statutory financial
information, see Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of regulatory contingencies, see Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Notes 13 and
15 are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

          In
recent years the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Legislation that would provide for federal chartering of insurance companies has been
proposed. In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation. We cannot predict whether any specific state or
federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the regulation of the insurance business or what effect any such measures would have on Allstate.   

           Agent and Broker Compensation.         In recent years, several states considered new legislation or regulations regarding the
compensation of agents and brokers by insurance companies. The proposals ranged in nature from new disclosure requirements to new duties on insurance agents and brokers in dealing with customers. New
disclosure requirements have been imposed in certain circumstances upon some agents and brokers in several states.   

           Limitations on Dividends By Insurance Subsidiaries.         As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own,
The Allstate Corporation relies on dividends from Allstate Insurance Company as one of the principal sources of cash to pay dividends and to meet its obligations, including the payment of principal
and interest on debt. Allstate Insurance Company is regulated as an insurance company in Illinois and its ability to pay dividends is restricted by Illinois law. For additional information regarding
those restrictions, see Part II, Item 5 of this report. The laws of the other jurisdictions that generally govern our other insurance subsidiaries contain similar limitations on the
payment of dividends and in some jurisdictions the laws may be more restrictive.   

           Holding Company Regulation.         The Allstate Corporation and Allstate Insurance Company are insurance holding companies subject
to regulation in the jurisdictions in which their insurance subsidiaries do business. In the U.S., these subsidiaries are organized under the insurance codes of Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts,
Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York and Texas, and some of these   

  12  

subsidiaries
are considered commercially domiciled in California and Utah. Generally, the insurance codes in these states provide that the acquisition or change of "control" of a domestic or
commercially domiciled insurer or of any person that controls such an insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the relevant insurance regulator. In general, a presumption of
"control" arises from the ownership, control, possession with the power to vote, or possession of proxies with respect to, ten percent or more of the voting securities of an insurer or of a person
that controls an insurer. In addition, certain state insurance laws require pre-acquisition notification to state agencies of a change in control with respect to a non-domestic
insurance company licensed to do business in that state. While such pre-acquisition notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, such
statutes do authorize certain remedies, including the issuance of a cease and desist order with respect to the non-domestic insurer if certain conditions exist, such as undue market
concentration. Thus, any transaction involving the acquisition of ten percent or more of The Allstate Corporation's common stock would generally require prior approval by the state insurance
departments in California, Illinois, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York, Texas, and Utah. The prior approval of the Florida insurance department would be necessary for the acquisition of
five percent or more. Moreover, notification would be required in those other states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and where the insurance subsidiaries are
admitted to transact business. Such approval requirements may deter, delay or prevent certain transactions affecting the ownership of The Allstate Corporation's common stock.   

           Price Regulation.         Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file price
schedules, policy or coverage forms, and other information with the state's regulatory authority. In many cases, such price schedules, policy forms or both must be approved prior to use. While they
vary from state to state, the objectives of the pricing laws are generally the same: a price cannot be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory.   

          The
speed with which an insurer can change prices in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on whether the pricing laws are (i) prior
approval, (ii) file-and-use, or (iii) use-and-file laws. In states having prior approval laws, the regulator must approve a price before
the insurer may use it. In states having file-and-use laws, the insurer does not have to wait for the regulator's approval to use a price, but the price must be filed with the
regulatory authority prior to being used. A use-and-file law requires an insurer to file prices within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them.
Approximately one half of the states, including California and New York, have prior approval laws. Under all three types of pricing laws, the regulator has the authority to disapprove a price
subsequent to its filing.   

          An
insurer's ability to adjust its prices in response to competition or to increasing costs is often dependent on an insurer's ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its pricing or
proposed pricing meets the requirements of the pricing laws. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's
discretion in selecting the business that it wants to underwrite, an insurer can manage its risk of loss by charging a price that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance. In those
states that significantly restrict an insurer's ability to charge a price that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more selective
in the type of business it underwrites. When a state significantly restricts both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.   

          Changes
in Allstate's claim settlement process may require Allstate to actuarially adjust loss information used in its pricing process. Some state insurance regulatory authorities may
not approve price increases that give full effect to these adjustments.   

  13  

From time to time, the private passenger auto insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators and special interest groups to reduce, freeze or set prices at
levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs and expenses. Homeowners insurance comes under similar pressure, particularly as regulators in states subject to high levels of
catastrophe losses struggle to identify an acceptable methodology to price for catastrophe exposure. We expect this kind of pressure to persist. In addition, our use of insurance scoring based on
credit report information for underwriting and pricing regularly comes under attack by regulators, legislators and special interest groups in various states. The result could be legislation or
regulation that adversely affects the profitability of the Allstate Protection segment. We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding
pricing.   

           Involuntary Markets.         As a condition of maintaining our licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various
states, we are required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities
that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to our results of
operations.   

           Guaranty Funds.         Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to
prescribed limits, in order to cover certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies.   

National Flood Insurance Program.         We voluntarily participate as a Write Your Own ("WYO") carrier in the National Flood
Insurance Program ("NFIP"). The NFIP is administered and regulated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency ("FEMA"). We operate as a fiscal agent of the federal government in the selling and
administering of the Standard Flood Insurance Policy ("SFIP"). This involves the collection of premiums belonging to the federal government and the paying of covered claims by directly drawing on
funds of the United States Treasury. We receive expense allowances from NFIP for underwriting administration, claims management, commission and adjuster fees.   

Investment Regulation.         Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that require investment portfolio
diversification and that limit the amount of investment in certain categories. Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of non-conforming investments as
non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus. Further, in some instances, these rules require divestiture of non-conforming investments.   

           Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies.         Most states regulate an insurer's ability to
exit a market. For example, states limit, to varying degrees, an insurer's ability to cancel and non-renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of
insurance business from the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject
withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer's ability to exit unprofitable markets.   

           Variable Life Insurance, Variable Annuities and Registered Fixed Annuities.         The sale and administration of variable life
insurance, variable annuities and registered fixed annuities with market value adjustment features are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at the federal and state level, including regulation
and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA").   

           Broker-Dealers, Investment Advisors and Investment Companies.         The Allstate entities that operate as broker-dealers,
registered investment advisors and investment companies are subject to regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA and/or, in some cases, state securities
administrators.   

  14  

Banking.         The Allstate Corporation is a diversified savings and loan holding company for Allstate Bank, a federal stock
savings bank and a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The principal supervisory authority for the diversified savings and loan holding company activities and the bank is the
Office of Thrift Supervision. The bank is also subject to the authority of the FDIC and other federal financial regulators implementing various laws applicable to banking.   

Privacy Regulation.         Federal law and the laws of some states require financial institutions to protect the security and
confidentiality of customer information and to notify customers about their policies and practices relating to collection and disclosure of customer information and their policies relating to
protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. Federal law and the laws of some states also regulate disclosures of customer information. Congress, state legislatures and regulatory
authorities are expected to consider additional regulation relating to privacy and other aspects of customer information.   

Asbestos.         Congress has considered legislation to address asbestos claims and litigation in the past, but unified support
among various defendant and insurer groups considered essential to any possible reform has been lacking. We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative measures regarding
asbestos.   

           Environmental.         Environmental pollution clean-up of polluted waste sites is the subject of both federal and state
regulation. The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("Superfund") and comparable state statutes ("mini-Superfund") govern the clean-up
and restoration of waste sites by "Potentially Responsible Parties" (PRPs). Superfund and the mini-Superfunds (Environmental Clean-up Laws or ECLs) establish a mechanism to
assign liability to PRPs or to fund the clean-up of waste sites if PRPs fail to do so. The extent of liability to be allocated to a PRP is dependent on a variety of factors. By some
estimates, there are thousands of potential waste sites subject to clean-up, but the exact number is unknown. The extent of clean-up necessary and the process of assigning
liability remain in dispute. The insurance industry is involved in extensive litigation regarding coverage issues arising out of the clean-up of waste sites by insured PRPs and the insured
parties' alleged liability to third parties responsible for the clean-up. The insurance industry, including Allstate, has disputed and is disputing many such claims. Key coverage issues
include whether Superfund response, investigation and clean-up costs are considered damages under the policies; trigger of coverage; the applicability of several types of pollution
exclusions; proper notice of claims; whether administrative liability triggers the duty to defend; appropriate allocation of liability among triggered insurers; and whether the liability in question
falls within the definition of an "occurrence." Identical coverage issues exist for clean-up and waste sites not covered under Superfund. To date, courts have been inconsistent in their
rulings on these issues. Allstate's exposure to liability with regard to its insureds that have been, or may be, named as PRPs is uncertain. While comprehensive Superfund reform proposals have been
introduced in Congress, only modest reform measures have been enacted.   

   INTERNET WEBSITE     

          Our Internet website address is Allstate.com. The Allstate Corporation's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 are available through our Internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. In
addition, our corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Succession Committee, and Nominating and Governance Committee are available
on our website and in print to any stockholder who requests copies by contacting Investor Relations, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois 60062-6127,
1-800-416-8803.   

  15  

OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT ALLSTATE     

          As of December 31, 2007, Allstate had approximately 38,000 full-time employees and 1,000 part-time employees.   

Information
regarding revenues generated outside of the United States is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference to Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

          Allstate's
four business segments use shared services, including human resources, investment, finance, information technology and legal services, provided by Allstate Insurance Company
and other affiliates.   

          Although
the insurance business generally is not seasonal, claims and claims expense for the Allstate Protection segment tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.   

"Allstate"
is one of the most recognized brand names in the United States. We use the names "Allstate," "Encompass," "Deerbrook," "Lincoln Benefit Life" and variations of these names
extensively in our business, along with related logos and slogans, such as "Good Hands." Our rights in the United States to these names, logos and slogans continue so long as we continue to use them
in commerce. Most of these service marks are the subject of renewable U.S. and/or foreign service mark registrations. We believe that these service marks are important to our business and we intend to
maintain our rights to them by continued use.   

  16  

Executive Officers     

          The following table sets forth the names of our executive officers, their ages as of February 1, 2008, their positions, and the dates of their first
election as officers. "AIC" refers to Allstate Insurance Company.   

Name      
     
   Age    
     
   Position/Offices    
     
   Date First 
Elected Officer    

Edward M. Liddy  
     
  62  
     
  Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation. Mr. Liddy will retire on April 30, 2008.  
     
  1994  

Thomas J. Wilson  
     
  50  
     
  Chairman-elect of The Allstate Corporation effective May 1, 2008; President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of The Allstate Corporation; also Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of
AIC.  
     
  1995  

Catherine S. Brune  
     
  54  
     
  Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of AIC.  
     
  1999  

Frederick F. Cripe  
     
  50  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC.  
     
  2000  

Joan M. Crockett  
     
  57  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Human Resources). Ms. Crockett will retire on March 31, 2008.  
     
  1994  

Danny L. Hale  
     
  63  
     
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AIC. Mr. Hale will retire on March 31, 2008.  
     
  2003  

James E. Hohmann  
     
  52  
     
  President and Chief Executive Officer of Allstate Financial Senior Vice President of AIC.  
     
  2007  

Michele C. Mayes  
     
  58  
     
  Vice President and General Counsel of The Allstate Corporation; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of AIC (Chief Legal Officer).  
     
  2007  

Samuel H. Pilch  
     
  61  
     
  Acting Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective March 3, 2008; Controller of The Allstate Corporation; Group Vice President and Controller of AIC.  
     
  1995  

Michael J. Roche  
     
  56  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Claims).  
     
  2005  

George E. Ruebenson  
     
  59  
     
  President Allstate Protection Senior Vice President of AIC.  
     
  1990  

Eric A. Simonson  
     
  62  
     
  Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of AIC (President, Allstate Investments, LLC).  
     
  2002  

Steven P. Sorenson  
     
  43  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Allstate Protection Product Distribution).  
     
  2000  

Joan H. Walker  
     
  60  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Corporate Relations) and Interim Chief Marketing Officer of AIC.  
     
  2005  

Each of the officers named above may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the board of directors of the relevant company.   

          With
the exception of Mr. Hohmann, Mr. Roche, Ms. Mayes and Ms. Walker, these officers have held the listed positions for at least the last five years or have
served Allstate in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years.   

          Prior
to joining Allstate in 2007, Mr. Hohmann was President and Chief Operating Officer of Conseco, Inc. in 2006 and Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative
Officer from 2004 to 2006. Mr. Hohmann also served as President and Chief Executive Officer of XL Life and Annuity from 2001 to 2004.   

  17  

Prior to joining Allstate in 2002, Mr. Roche was Group President of Small Business Finance for Heller Financial from 1990 to 2002. Prior to joining Allstate in 2007,
Ms. Mayes served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes since 2003 and Vice President, Assistant Secretary and Counsel of Colgate-Palmolive Company from 2001 to 2003.   

Prior
to joining Allstate in 2005, Ms. Walker served as Executive Vice President of Marketing and Communications at Qwest Communications International, Inc. from 2002 to
2005 and as Senior Vice President of Global Public Affairs at Pharmacia Corporation from 1999 to 2001.   

   Item 1A. Risk Factors     

          This document contains "forward-looking statements" that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are subject to uncertainty. These
statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a
result of new information or future events or developments.   

          These
forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "seeks," "expects," "will," "should,"
"anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "believes," "likely," "targets" and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe
exposure management, product development, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on reasonable
estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual results
could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements.   

          In
addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer and a provider of other
financial services. These risks constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they
identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and historical
trends. These cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or
in materials incorporated therein by reference. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial
to our operations.   

   Risks Relating to the Property-Liability business     

   As a property and casualty insurer, we may face significant losses from catastrophes and severe weather events     

Because of the exposure of our property and casualty business to catastrophic events, our operating results and financial condition may vary significantly from
one period to the next. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, tropical storms and
certain types of terrorism. We may continue to incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of those experienced in prior years, in excess of those that management projects
would be incurred based on hurricane and earthquake losses which have a one percent probability of occurring on an annual aggregate countrywide basis, in excess of those that external modeling firms
estimate would be incurred based on other levels of probability, in excess of the average expected level used in pricing, and in excess of our current reinsurance coverage limits. While we believe
that our catastrophe management initiatives will reduce the potential magnitude of possible future losses due to natural catastrophes, we continue to be exposed to catastrophes that could have a
material adverse effect on operating results and financial position. For example, our   

  18  

historical
catastrophe experience includes losses relating to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.4 billion, the Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion and Hurricane
Andrew in 1992 totaling $2.3 billion. We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority, and various state-created catastrophe insurance facilities, and to losses that
could surpass the capitalization of these facilities. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or
financial strength ratings.   

          In
addition, we are also subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely
unpredictable. There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur.   

   The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to catastrophe losses     

Although, along with others in the industry, we use models developed by third party vendors in assessing our property exposure to catastrophe losses that assume
various conditions and probability scenarios, such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe models, which have been
evolving since the early 1990s, use historical information about hurricanes and earthquakes and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. While we use this information
in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. These limitations are evident in
significant variations in estimates between models and modelers, material increases and decreases in model results due to changes and refinements of the underlying data elements, assumptions which
lead to questionable predictive capability, and actual event conditions that have not been well understood previously and not incorporated into the models. In addition, the models are not necessarily
reflective of actual demand surge, loss adjustment expenses and the occurrence of mold losses, which are subject to wide variation by event or location.   

   Impacts of catastrophes and our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth     

          We believe that the actions we are taking to support earning an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the variability in
our earnings, while providing quality protection to our customers, will be successful over the long term, however they have a negative impact on near-term growth, earnings and reputation.
Homeowners premium growth rates and retention could be more adversely impacted than we expect by adjustments to our business structure, size and underwriting practices in markets with significant
catastrophe risk exposure. In addition, due to the diminished potential for cross-selling opportunities, new business growth in our auto lines could be lower than expected.   

   Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of claims may adversely affect our profitability     

          Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment. Changes in bodily injury claim severity are driven
primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy. Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto repair costs, auto parts prices and used car
prices. Changes in homeowner's claim severity are driven by inflation in the construction industry, in building materials and in home furnishings and by other economic and environmental factors,
including increased demand for services and supplies in areas affected by catastrophes. However, changes in the level of the severity of claims are not limited to the effects of inflation and demand
surge in these various sectors of the economy. Increases in claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict. Examples of such events include   

  19  

a
decision in 2001 by the Georgia Supreme Court that diminished value coverage was included in auto policies under Georgia law and the emergence of mold-related homeowners losses in the
state of Texas during 2002. Although from time to time we pursue various loss management initiatives in the Allstate Protection segment in order to mitigate future increases in claim severity, there
can be no assurances that these initiatives will successfully identify or reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity.   

          Our
Allstate Protection segment has experienced a long-term decline in claim frequency. Other participants in the industry have also experienced a similar decline. We believe
that this decrease may be attributable to a combination of several factors, including increases in the level of policy deductibles chosen by policyholders, improvements in car and road safety, aging
of the population, increased driver education and restrictions for new drivers, decreases in policyholder submission of claims for minor losses, more cars than drivers per household, and our
implementation of improved underwriting criteria. The short-term level of claim frequency we experience may vary from period to period and may not be sustainable over the longer term. A
significant long-term increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

   Actual claims incurred may exceed current reserves established for claims     

Recorded claim reserves in the Property-Liability business are based on our best estimates of losses, both reported and incurred but not reported ("IBNR"), after
considering known facts and interpretations of circumstances. Internal factors are considered including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends involving claim payment
patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix, and contractual terms. External factors are also considered which include but are not limited to law changes, court
decisions, changes to regulatory requirements and economic conditions. Because reserves are estimates of the unpaid portion of losses that have occurred, including IBNR losses, the establishment of
appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is
an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may adversely affect our operating results and financial
condition.   

   Predicting claim expense relating to asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines is inherently uncertain     

          The process of estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines liabilities is complicated by complex legal issues concerning, among other things,
the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are, or were ever intended to be, covered; and whether losses could be recoverable through retrospectively determined
premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Asbestos-related bankruptcies and other asbestos litigations are complex, lengthy proceedings that involve substantial uncertainty for insurers.
While we believe that improved actuarial techniques and databases have assisted in estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines net loss reserves, these refinements may subsequently
prove to be inadequate indicators of the extent of probable loss. Consequently, ultimate net losses from these discontinued lines could materially exceed established loss reserves and expected
recoveries and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, operating results and financial position.   

   Regulation limiting rate increases and requiring us to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements may decrease our profitability     

From time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may not allow us to reach
targeted levels of profitability. For example, when Allstate Protection's loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may impose rate rollbacks, require us to
pay premium refunds to policyholders, or resist or delay our efforts to raise rates even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory resistance to rate increases.
Such resistance affects our ability, in all product lines, to obtain approval for rate changes   

  20  

that
may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and returns on equity. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent
upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost.   

          In
addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans,
reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise
charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity, or as the facilities
recognize a financial deficit, they may, in turn have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations. Laws and regulations
of many states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally,
certain states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in
the state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.   

   The potential benefits of implementing our sophisticated risk segmentation process ("Tiered Pricing") may not be fully realized     

We believe that Tiered Pricing and underwriting (including Strategic Risk Management which, in some situations, considers information that is obtained from credit
reports among other factors) has allowed us to be more competitive and operate more profitably. However, because many of our competitors have adopted underwriting criteria and tiered pricing models
similar to those we use and because other competitors may follow suit, our competitive advantage could decline or be lost. Further, the use of insurance scoring from information that is obtained from
credit reports as a factor in underwriting and pricing has at times been challenged by regulators, legislators, litigants and special interest groups in various states. Competitive pressures could
also force us to modify our Tiered Pricing model. Furthermore, we can not be assured that Tiered Pricing models will accurately reflect the level of losses that we will ultimately incur from the mix
of new business generated. Moreover, to the extent that competitive pressures limit our ability to attract new customers, our expectation that the amount of business written using Tiered Pricing will
increase may not be realized.   

   Allstate Protection may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business     

          The property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition, less restrictive
underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high premium rates. A
downturn in the profitability cycle of the property and casualty business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.   

   Risks Relating to the Allstate Financial Segment     

   Changes in underwriting and actual experience could materially affect profitability     

          Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and operating costs and expenses of
the business. Management establishes target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital that the company must hold to support in-force contracts,
satisfy rating agencies and meet regulatory requirements. We monitor and manage our pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target new business returns on a portfolio basis, which could result in the
discontinuation of products or distribution relationships and a   

  21  

decline
in sales. Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years depending on the nature and life of the product and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing
assumptions.   

          Our
profitability in this segment depends on the adequacy of investment spreads, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, the sufficiency of premiums and
contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the persistency of policies to ensure recovery of acquisition expenses, and the management of operating costs and expenses within
anticipated pricing allowances. Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability.   

   Changes in reserve estimates may reduce profitability     

          Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields,
mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs significantly from assumptions,
adjustments to reserves may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

   Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the sales and profitability of spread-based products     

          Our ability to manage the Allstate Financial spread-based products, such as fixed annuities and institutional products, is dependent upon maintaining profitable
spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid
or sold may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment spread. Lowering interest crediting rates in such an environment can offset decreases in investment yield on some products. However,
these changes could be limited by market
conditions, regulatory or contractual minimum rate guarantees on many contracts and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. Decreases in the rates offered on products in the
financial segment could make those products less attractive, leading to lower sales and/or changes in the level of policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals and accelerating maturities of institutional
products. Non-parallel shifts in interest rates, such as increases in short-term rates without accompanying increases in medium- and long-term rates, can influence
customer demand for fixed annuities, which could impact the level and profitability of new customer deposits. Increases in market interest rates can also have negative effects on Allstate Financial,
for example by increasing the attractiveness of other investments to our customers, which can lead to higher surrenders at a time when the segment's fixed income investment asset values are lower as a
result of the increase in interest rates. For certain products, principally fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life products, the earned rate on assets could lag behind rising market yields. We may
react to market conditions by increasing crediting rates, which could narrow spreads and reduce profitability. Unanticipated surrenders could result in accelerated amortization of deferred policy
acquisition costs ("DAC") or affect the recoverability of DAC and thereby increase expenses and reduce profitability.   

   Changes in estimates of profitability on interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment products may have an adverse effect on results through increased
amortization of DAC     

          DAC related to interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to actual historical gross profits and estimated
future gross profits ("EGP") over the estimated lives of the contracts. Assumptions underlying EGP, including those relating to margins from mortality, investment margin, contract administration,
surrender and other contract charges, are updated from time to time in order to reflect actual and expected experience and its potential effect on the valuation of DAC. Updates to these assumptions
could result in DAC unlocking, which in turn could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.   

  22  

A loss of key product distribution relationships could materially affect sales     

          Certain products in the Allstate Financial segment are distributed under agreements with other members of the financial services industry that are not affiliated
with us. Termination of one or more of these agreements due to, for example, a change in control of one of these distributors, could have a detrimental effect on the sales of Allstate Financial.   

   Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products     

          Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable tax treatment. This favorable
treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable
policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life
insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of
our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender
of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.   

   Risks Relating to Investments     

We are subject to market risk and declines in credit quality     

          Although we are exploring the possibility of adopting an enhanced asset allocation model to assess our exposure to market risk on an enterprise-wide
basis, rather than on a more limited business unit basis, and to improve overall returns without increasing enterprise portfolio risk, we will remain subject to the risk that we will incur losses due
to adverse changes in equity, interest, commodity or foreign currency exchange rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and equity prices and, to a lesser
degree, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. In addition, we are subject to potential declines in credit quality, either related to issues specific to certain industries or
to a weakening in the economy in general. Although to some extent we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks, the effectiveness of such instruments is subject to the same risks. For
additional information on market risk, see the "Market Risk" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis.   

          A
decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio's average rate. In a
declining interest rate environment, borrowers may prepay or redeem securities more quickly than expected as they seek to refinance at lower rates. A decline could also lead us to purchase
longer-term or otherwise riskier assets in order to obtain adequate investment yields resulting in a duration gap when compared to the duration of liabilities. An increase in market
interest rates could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment
portfolio. A declining equity market could also cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease or decreasing interest rates could cause the funding target and the projected benefit obligation
of our pension plans or the accumulated benefit obligation of our other post retirement benefit plans to increase, either or both resulting in a decrease in the funded status of the plans and a
reduction of shareholders equity, increases in pension expense and increases in required contributions to the pension plans. A decline in the quality of our investment portfolio as a result of adverse
economic conditions or otherwise could cause additional realized losses on securities, including realized losses relating to equity and derivative strategies.   

  23  

Deteriorating financial performance on securities collateralized by mortgage loans and commercial mortgage loans may lead to write-downs     

          We continue to believe that the unrealized losses on securities collateralized by mortgage loans and commercial mortgage loans are not necessarily predictive of
the performance of the underlying collateral, and that, in the absence of further deterioration in the collateral relative to our positions in the securities' respective capital structure, we expect
the unrealized losses should reverse over the remaining lives of the securities. However, future market conditions could cause us to alter that outlook. Changes in
mortgage delinquency or recovery rates, credit rating changes by rating agencies, bond insurer strength or rating, and the quality of service provided by service providers on securities in our
portfolios could lead us to determine that write-downs are appropriate in the future.   

   Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects     

The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic sector could have an adverse effect on our
investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations and financial position. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that
have a negative impact on any particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are
concentrated rather than diversified.   

   Risks Relating to the Insurance Industry     

   Our future results are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in an insurance industry that is highly competitive     

          The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include a savings or investment component,
securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Many of our competitors have well-established national reputations and market similar products.
Because of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, including competition for producers such as exclusive and independent agents, there can be no assurance that we will continue to
effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Furthermore, certain
competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure and therefore, may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. Our ability to successfully operate may also be impaired if we are
not effective in filling critical leadership positions, in developing the talent and skills of our human resources, in assimilating new executive talent into our organization, or in deploying human
resource talent consistently with our business goals.   

We may suffer losses from litigation     

          As is typical for a large company, we are involved in a substantial amount of litigation, including class action litigation challenging a range of company
practices and coverage provided by our insurance products. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently reserved
and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period. For a description of our current legal proceedings, see Note 13 of the consolidated
financial statements.   

  24  

In
some circumstances, we may be able to collect on third-party insurance that we carry to recover all or part of the amounts that we may be required to pay in judgments, settlements and
litigation expenses. However, we may not be able to resolve issues concerning the availability, if any, or the ability to collect such insurance concurrently with the underlying litigation.
Consequently, the timing of the resolution of a particular piece of litigation and the determination of our insurance recovery with respect to that litigation may not coincide and, therefore, may be
reflected in our financial statements in different fiscal quarters.   

   We are subject to extensive regulation and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth     

          As insurance companies, broker-dealers, investment advisers and/or investment companies, many of our subsidiaries are subject to extensive laws and regulations.
These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators,
state securities administrators, the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive
latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with
another's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of
a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal
issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit
our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. Furthermore, in some cases, these laws and regulations are designed to protect or benefit the interests of a specific constituency
rather than a range of constituencies. For example, state insurance laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or benefit purchasers or users of insurance products, not holders of
securities issued by The Allstate Corporation. In many respects, these laws and regulations limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business.   

          In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under public scrutiny and members of Congress have discussed proposals to provide for optional federal chartering of
insurance companies. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance regulation.   

   Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business     

Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain
continuously available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. For example, our ability to afford reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated
areas may be dependent upon our ability to adjust premium rates for its cost, and there are no assurances that the terms and rates we predicted in our estimate of the cost for the current year
Allstate Floridian program will be available. If we were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices
that we consider acceptable, we would have to either accept an increase in our exposure risk, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives.   

  25  

Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance     

          The collectibility of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including whether insured losses meet the qualifying
conditions of the reinsurance contract and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract.
Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

   The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio     

          The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response
to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate changes in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss
of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced
economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We seek to mitigate the potential impact of terrorism on our commercial mortgage portfolio by limiting geographical concentrations in key
metropolitan areas and by requiring terrorism insurance to the extent that it is commercially available. Additionally, in the event that terrorist acts occur, both Allstate Protection and Allstate
Financial could be adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event.   

   Any decrease in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position     

          Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an effect on an insurance
company's business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer's ratings due to, for
example, a change in an insurer's statutory capital; a change in a rating agency's determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a particular rating; an
increase in the perceived risk of an insurer's investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management or a host of other considerations that may or may not be under the insurer's control. The
insurance financial strength ratings of both Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company are A+, AA and Aa2 from A.M. Best, Standard   Poor's and Moody's,
respectively. Several other affiliates have been assigned their own financial strength ratings by one or more rating agencies. Because all of these ratings are subject to continuous review, the
retention of these ratings cannot be assured. A multiple level downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on our sales, our competitiveness, the marketability of our
product offerings, and our liquidity, operating results and financial condition.   

   Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements     

          Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised, interpreted and/or expanded.
Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting
standards that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

  26  

The change in our unrecognized tax benefit during the next 12 months is subject to uncertainty     

As required by FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes", which was adopted as of January 1, 2007, we have disclosed
our estimate of net unrecognized tax benefits and the reasonably possible increase or decrease in its balance during the next 12 months. However, actual results may differ from our estimate for
reasons such as changes in our position on specific issues, developments with respect to the governments' interpretations of income tax laws or changes in judgment resulting from new information
obtained in audits or the appeals process.   

   The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations     

The Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal asset is the stock of its subsidiaries. State insurance regulatory
authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, competitive pressures generally require the
subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make dividend payments. Limits on the
ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our debt and complete share repurchase programs in
the timeframe expected.   

   The occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively     

          In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems
could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing,
transmission, storage and retrieval systems. In the event that a significant number of our managers could be unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business
could be severely compromised.   

   Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows     

          Allstate recognizes the scientific view that the world is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures and changes in weather
patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of extreme weather events and wildfires. Such changes could also impact the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance. To the extent that
climate change impacts mortality rates and those changes do not match the long-term mortality assumptions in our product pricing, our Allstate Financial segment would be impacted.   

Loss of key vendor relationships could affect our operations     

          We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of computer hardware and software
and vendors of services such as claim adjustment services and human resource benefits management services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable
to continue to provide products or services, we may suffer operational impairments and financial losses.   

  27  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments     

          None.   

   Item 2. Properties     

          Our home office complex is located in Northbrook, Illinois. As of December 31, 2007, the Home Office complex consists of several buildings totaling
approximately 2.3 million square feet of office space on a 250-acre site.   

We
also operate from approximately 1,400 administrative, data processing, claims handling and other support facilities in North America. Approximately 4.4 million square feet are
owned and 7.0 million square feet are leased. In addition, we lease three properties as lessee in Northern Ireland comprising approximately 152,900 square feet and 53 properties in Canada
comprising approximately 240,000 square feet. Generally, only major facilities are owned. In a majority of cases, new lease terms and renewals are for five years or less.   

          The
locations out of which the Allstate exclusive agencies operate in the U.S. are normally leased by the agencies as lessees.   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings     

          Information required for Item 3 is incorporated by reference to the discussion under the heading "Regulation" and under the heading "Legal proceedings" in
Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

   Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders     

          None.   

  28  

Part II     

   Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

As of January 31, 2008, there were 122,739 record holders of The Allstate Corporation's common stock. The principal market for the common stock is the New
York Stock Exchange but it is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Set forth below are the high and low New York Stock Exchange Composite listing prices of, and cash dividends declared for, the
common stock during 2007 and 2006.   

The payment of dividends by Allstate Insurance Company to The Allstate Corporation is limited by Illinois insurance law to formula amounts based
on statutory net income and statutory surplus, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. In the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2007, Allstate
Insurance Company paid dividends of $4.92 billion. Based on the greater of 2007 statutory net income or 10% of statutory surplus, the maximum amount of dividends that Allstate Insurance Company
will be able to pay without prior Illinois Department of Insurance approval at a given point in time in 2008 is $4.96 billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve months measured at
that point in time. Notification and approval of intercompany lending activities is also required by the Illinois Department of Insurance for those transactions that exceed formula amounts based on
statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.   

  29  

(1)    In
accordance with the terms of its equity compensation plans, Allstate acquired the following shares in connection with stock option exercises by employees and/or directors. The
stock was received in payment of the exercise price of the options and in satisfaction of withholding taxes due upon exercise or vesting.
         October:    883 
November:    1,472 
December:    none
      (2)    Repurchases
under our programs are, from time to time, executed under the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of Rule 10b5-1(c) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
         On
October 18, 2006, Allstate announced the approval of a new share repurchase program for $3.00 billion.
         Consistent
with the announcement on April 18, 2007, Allstate increased the program to $4.00 billion following the issuance of
$1.00 billion of junior subordinated securities. The program is expected to be completed by March 31, 2008.
         On
February 26, 2008, Allstate announced the approval of a new share repurchase program for $2.00 billion. This program is expected to be
completed by March 31, 2009.    
  30  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data     

(1)    We
use operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results. We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability. They are
calculated as follows: Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned. Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses. Expense ratio is the
ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. Combined ratio is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC,
operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The difference between 100% and the
combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned.    
  31  

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

32  

OVERVIEW     

          The following discussion highlights significant factors influencing the consolidated financial position and results of operations of The Allstate Corporation
(referred to in this document as "we", "our", "us", the "Company" or "Allstate"). It should be read in conjunction with the 5-year summary of selected financial data, consolidated
financial statements and related notes found under Part II, Item 6 and Item 8 contained herein. Further analysis of our insurance segments is provided in the Property-Liability
Operations (which includes the Allstate Protection and the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments) and in the Allstate Financial Segment sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD A").
The segments are consistent with the way in which we use financial information to evaluate business performance and to determine the allocation of resources.   

          Allstate's
goal is to reinvent protection and retirement for the consumer. To achieve this goal, Allstate is focused on the following operating priorities: consumer focus, operational
excellence, enterprise risk and return, and capital management.   

          The
most important factors we monitor to evaluate the financial condition and performance of our company include:   

For
Allstate Protection: premium written, the number of policies in force ("PIF"), retention, price changes, claim frequency (rate of claim occurrence per policy in force)
and severity (average cost per claim), catastrophes, loss ratio, expenses, underwriting results and sales of all products and services;
           For
Allstate Financial: premiums and deposits, benefit and investment spread, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, expenses, operating income, net income,
invested assets, product returns, and profitably growing distribution partner relationships;
           For
Investments: credit quality/experience, stability of long-term returns, total returns, cash flows, and asset and liability duration; and
           For
financial condition: our financial strength ratings, operating leverage, debt leverage, book value per share, and return on equity.    

2007 HIGHLIGHTS     

Net
income decreased 7.2% to $4.64 billion in 2007 from $4.99 billion in 2006. Net income per diluted share decreased 0.9% to $7.77 in 2007 from $7.84 in 2006.
           Total
revenues increased 2.7% to $36.77 billion in 2007 from $35.80 billion in 2006.
           Realized
capital gains on a pre-tax basis were $1.24 billion in 2007 compared to $286 million in 2006.
           Net
investment income increased 4.2% in 2007 compared to 2006.
           Book
value per diluted share increased 10.7% to $38.58 as of December 31, 2007 from $34.84 as of December 31, 2006.
           For
the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, return on the average of beginning and ending period shareholders' equity decreased 2.6 points to 21.2% from 23.8% for
the twelve months ended December 31, 2006.
           Stock
repurchases totaled $3.55 billion for 2007. As of December 31, 2007, our $4.00 billion share repurchase program, which commenced in November 2006,
had $240 million remaining and is expected to be completed by March 31, 2008. This program was increased from $3.00 billion in May 2007.    
 
  33  

Property-Liability
premiums earned decreased 0.5% to $27.23 billion in 2007 from $27.37 billion in 2006.
           The
Property-Liability combined ratio was 89.8 for 2007 compared to 83.6 for 2006.
           Allstate 
Your Choice Auto Insurance ("YCA") continued to add customers in 2007, bringing the total YCA policies sold since inception to 3.2 million.
           Allstate
Financial net income increased 0.2% to $465 million in 2007 from $464 million in 2006.    

CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME     

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES     

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") requires management
to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include those used in determining:   

Investment
Fair Value and Impairment
           Derivative
Instrument Hedge Accounting and Fair Value    
 
  34  

Deferred
Policy Acquisition Cost ("DAC") Amortization
           Reserve
for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Estimation
           Reserve
for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits Estimation    

In
applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies,
estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to the Company's businesses and operations. It is reasonably likely that changes in
these estimates could occur from period to period and result in a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.   

          A
brief summary of each of these critical accounting estimates follows. For a more detailed discussion of the effect of these estimates on our consolidated financial statements, and the
judgments and assumptions related to these estimates, see the referenced sections of this document. For a complete summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 of the consolidated
financial statements.   

           Investment Fair Value and Impairment       The fair value of our investments in fixed income and equity securities is based on
observable market quotations, other market observable data, or is derived from such quotations and market observable data. We utilize third party pricing servicers, brokers and internal valuation
models to determine fair value. We gain assurance of the overall reasonableness and consistent application of the assumptions and methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value
determination through our ongoing monitoring of the fair values received or derived internally. Our
exposure to changes in market conditions is discussed more fully in the Market Risk section of the MD A.   

          We
are responsible for the determination of fair value and the supporting assumptions and methodologies. We employ independent third party pricing servicers to gather, analyze, and
interpret market information and derive fair values based upon relevant assumptions and methodologies for each applicable security. In situations where sufficient market observable information is not
available for a particular security through the sources as agreed to with us, no quote is provided by the service providers. For these securities, fair value is determined either by requesting brokers
who are knowledgeable about these securities to provide a quote or we internally determine fair values employing widely accepted pricing valuation models. Changing market conditions in the fourth
quarter of 2007, were incorporated into valuation assumptions, and reflected in the fair values which were validated by calibration and other analytical techniques to available market observable data.   

          Third
party pricing servicers consolidate market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and provide pricing information in the form of a single fair
value for each security for which a fair value request is agreed. For equity securities, which comprise approximately 3% of our holdings, they provide market quotations for completed transactions on
the measurement date. The other fair values provided are derived from their proprietary pricing models. The sources used by these servicers include, but are not limited to, market prices from recently
completed transactions and transactions of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves, credit spreads, currency rates, and other market-observable information as applicable, as well as widely
accepted valuation models developed on a proprietary basis. Their proprietary pricing models are based on discounted cashflow methodology and they may take into account, among other things, market
observable information as of the measurement date from the sources described above; and the specific attributes of the security being valued including its term, interest rate and credit rating
(consistent with those we use to report our holdings by credit rating); industry sector, and where applicable, collateral quality and other issue or issuer specific information. To operate these
models effectively requires seasoned professional judgment and experience.   

  35  

In
cases where market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the degree of judgment varies with the availability of market observable information.   

          For
approximately 4.5% of our holdings, where our third party pricing servicers cannot provide fair value determinations for fixed income securities, we obtain quotes from brokers
familiar with the security who may consider transactions or activity in similar securities, if any, among other information, similar to our third party pricing servicers. The brokers providing the
quotes are generally from the brokerage divisions of leading financial institutions with market making, underwriting and distribution expertise.   

          The
fair value of securities, such as privately-placed securities, where our pricing servicers or brokers cannot provide fair value determinations, is determined using widely accepted
valuation methods and models. These internally developed models are appropriate for each class of security, involve some degree of judgment, and include inputs that may not be market observable.   

Our
models are based on discounted cash flow methodology and calculate a single best estimate of fair value for each security. Our internally developed pricing models use credit ratings
and liquidity risk associated with privately-placed securities which are difficult to independently observe and verify. Inputs used in these fair value estimates include specific attributes of the
security being valued including; coupon rate, weighted average life, an internal credit rating assigned by us, (which is generally consistent with any external ratings and those we use to report our
holdings by credit rating), sector of the issuer, and call provisions. Our assumptions incorporate market information as of the measurement date that represents what we believe independent third
parties would use to determine fair value, which include: interest rate yield curves, quoted market prices of comparable securities, credit spreads, estimated liquidity premiums and other applicable
market data. Our assumption for liquidity risk associated with privately-placed securities reduces the value of these securities to reflect their reduced liquidity as compared to similar securities
that are publicly traded. Additionally, no assumption is included in the valuation of privately placed securities for an increase to the value to reflect the generally enhanced structural features of
the securities, such as covenants or change of control protection. However, judgment is required in developing these estimates and, as a result, the estimated fair value of these securities may differ
from amounts that would be realized upon an orderly sale of the securities at the measurement date. The use of different assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair values.   

          We
employ control processes to determine the reasonableness of the fair value of our fixed income and equity securities. Our processes are designed to assure the values provided are
accurately recorded and that the data and the valuation method utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable and representative of fair value. For example,
we may validate the reasonableness of prices by comparing the information obtained from our pricing vendors to other third party pricing sources for certain securities. Our control processes also
include reviews, when fair value determinations are expected to be more variable, by management with relevant expertise and management who are independent of those charged with executing investing
transactions, of these fair value determinations to validate their reasonableness.   

  36  

The
following table identifies those investments carried at fair value as of December 31, 2007 by method of determination:   

For investments classified as available for sale, the difference between fair value and amortized cost for fixed income securities and cost for
equity securities, net of certain other items and deferred income taxes (as disclosed in Note 5), is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position and is not reflected in the operating results of any period until reclassified to net income upon the consummation of a transaction with an unrelated third party or
when declines in fair values are deemed other-than-temporary. The assessment of other-than-temporary impairment of a security's fair value is performed
on a portfolio review as well as a case-by-case basis considering a wide range of factors.   

For
our portfolio review evaluations, we ascertain whether there are any approved programs involving the disposition of investments such as changes in duration, revisions to strategic
asset allocations and liquidity actions, as well as any dispositions anticipated by the portfolio managers. In these instances, we recognize impairments on securities designated as subject to these
approved anticipated actions if the security is in an unrealized loss position. There are a number of assumptions and estimates inherent in evaluating impairments and determining if they are
other-than-temporary, including: 1) our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value;
2) the expected recoverability of principal and interest; 3) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed income securities or cost
for equity securities; 4) the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant industry conditions and trends, and
implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; and 5) the specific reasons that a security is in a significant
unrealized loss position, including market conditions which could affect liquidity. Additionally, once assumptions and estimates are made, any number of changes in facts and circumstances could cause
us to subsequently determine that an impairment is other-than-temporary, including: 1) general economic conditions that are worse than previously forecasted or that have
a greater adverse effect on a particular issuer or industry sector than originally estimated; 2) changes in the facts and circumstances related to a particular issue or issuer's ability to meet
all of its contractual obligations; and 3) changes in facts and circumstances or new information obtained which causes a change in our ability or intent to hold a security to maturity or until
it recovers in value. Changes in assumptions, facts and circumstances could result in additional charges to earnings in future periods to the extent that losses are realized. The charge to earnings,
while potentially significant to net income, would not have a significant effect on shareholders' equity since the majority of our portfolio is designated as available-for-sale
and carried at fair value and as a result, any related net unrealized loss would already be reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity.   

  37  

The determination of the amount of impairment is an inherently subjective process based on periodic evaluation of the factors described above. Such evaluations and assessments are
revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in impairments in results of operations as such evaluations are revised. The
use of different methodologies and assumptions as to the determination of the fair value of investments and the timing and amount of impairments may have a material effect on the amounts presented
within the consolidated financial statements.   

          For
a more detailed discussion of the risks relating to changes in investment values and levels of investment impairment as well as the potential causes of such changes, see
Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements and the Investments, Market Risk, Enterprise Risk Management and Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this document.   

           Derivative Instrument Hedge Accounting and Fair Value       We primarily use derivative financial instruments to manage our
exposure to market risk and in conjunction with asset/liability management, particularly in the Allstate Financial segment.   

          When
derivatives meet specific criteria, they may be designated as accounting hedges and accounted for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value, or foreign currency cash
flow hedges. When designating a derivative as an accounting hedge, we formally document the hedging relationship and risk management objective and strategy. The documentation identifies the hedging
instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being hedged and the methodology used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged
item's fair value attributable to the hedged risk. In the case of a cash flow hedge, this documentation includes the exposure to changes in the hedged transaction's variability in cash flows
attributable to the hedged risk. We do not exclude any component of the change in fair value of the hedging instrument from the effectiveness assessment. At each reporting date, we confirm that the
hedging instrument continues to be highly effective in offsetting the hedged risk.   

          The
accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the applicable accounting standards continue to evolve in practice. Judgment is applied in determining the availability
and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment under the applicable accounting standards. If it is determined that hedge accounting designations were not
appropriately applied, reported net income could be materially affected. Differences in judgment as to the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting
treatment may result in
differing impacts on our financial statements from those previously reported. Measurements of ineffectiveness of hedging relationships are also subject to evolving interpretations and estimations
which may have a material effect on net income.   

          The
fair value of exchange traded derivative contracts is based on observable market quotations in active markets, whereas the fair value of non-exchange traded derivative
contracts is determined using widely accepted pricing models and other appropriate valuation methods. These techniques involve some degree of judgment and include inputs that may not be observable in
the market. The fair value of derivatives, depending on the type of derivative, can be affected by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices, credit spreads, market
volatility and liquidity. Values can also be affected by changes in estimates and assumptions used in pricing models. Such assumptions include estimates of volatility, interest rates, foreign exchange
rates, other financial indices and credit ratings. Included in the analysis of the fair value is the risk of counterparty default. The use of different assumptions may have material effects on the
estimated derivative fair value amounts, as well as the amount of reported net income. Also, fluctuations in the fair value of derivatives which have not been designated for hedge accounting may
result in significant volatility in net income.   

  38  

The
following table presents the valuation of our derivatives by method of determining fair value.   

(in millions)      
     
   Fair Value of 
Derivative Contracts    

Fair value based on quoted market prices  
     
  $  
  101  

Fair value based on models and other valuation methods  

932  

Fair value of derivatives related to Allstate Financial Products  

(117  
  )  

Total fair value of derivatives  
     
  $  
  916  

For further discussion of these policies and quantification of the impacts of these estimates and assumptions, see Note 6 of the
consolidated financial statements and the Investments, Market Risk, Enterprise Risk Management and Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this document.   

           Deferred Policy Acquisition Cost Amortization       We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring business. In accordance
with GAAP, costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring business are deferred and recorded as an asset on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

DAC
related to property-liability contracts is amortized to income as premiums are earned, typically over periods of six to twelve months. The amortization methodology for DAC for
Allstate Financial policies and contracts includes significant assumptions and estimates.   

          DAC
related to traditional life insurance is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Significant
assumptions relating to estimated premiums, investment returns, which include investment income and realized capital gains and losses, as well as mortality, persistency and expenses to administer the
business are established at the time the policy is issued and are generally not revised during the life of the policy. The assumptions for determining DAC amortization and recoverability are
consistent with the assumptions used to calculate reserves for life-contingent contract benefits. Any deviations from projected business in force resulting from actual policy terminations
differing from expected levels and any estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these
contracts approximates the estimated lives of the policies. The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of this business. We periodically review the adequacy of reserves and
recoverability of DAC for these contracts on an aggregate basis using actual experience. In the event actual experience is significantly adverse compared to the original assumptions any remaining
unamortized DAC balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and a premium deficiency reserve may be required if the remaining DAC balance is insufficient to absorb the deficiency.   

DAC
related to interest-sensitive life, annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which includes
both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on the
prior period DAC balance using rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating estimates of
customer surrender rates, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized during the surrender charge period. The cumulative DAC amortization is reestimated
and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to results of operations when there is a difference between the incidence of actual versus expected gross profits in a reporting period or when there is a
change in total EGP.   

          AGP
and EGP consist of the following components: benefit margins primarily from cost of insurance contract charges less mortality; investment margins including realized capital gains and
losses; and   

  39  

expense
margins including surrender and other contract charges, less maintenance expenses. The amount of EGP is principally dependent on assumptions for investment returns, including capital gains and
losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to policyholders, the effect of any hedges, persistency, mortality and expenses. Of these factors, we anticipate that
investment returns, credited interest, persistency, mortality, and expenses are reasonably likely to have the greatest impact on the amount of DAC amortization. Changes in these assumptions can be
offsetting and the Company is unable to predict their future movements or offsetting impacts over time.   

          Each
reporting period, DAC amortization is recognized in proportion to AGP for that period adjusted for interest on the prior period DAC balance. This amortization process includes an
assessment of AGP compared to EGP, the actual amount of business remaining in-force and realized capital gains and losses on investments supporting the product liability. The impact of
realized capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC depends upon which product liability is supported by the assets that give rise to the gain or loss. If the AGP is less than EGP in the period,
but the total EGP is unchanged, the amount of DAC amortization will generally decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result generally occurs when the AGP exceeds
the EGP in the period, but the total EGP is unchanged.   

          Annually
we review all assumptions underlying the projections of EGP, including investment returns, interest crediting rates, mortality, persistency, and expenses. Management annually
updates assumptions used in the calculation of EGP. At each reporting period we assess whether any revisions to assumptions used to determine DAC amortization are required. These reviews and updates
may result in amortization acceleration or deceleration, which are commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking".   

          If
the update of assumptions causes total EGP to increase, the rate of DAC amortization will generally decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. A decrease to
earnings generally occurs when the assumption update causes the total EGP to decrease.   

          Over
the past three years, our most significant DAC assumption updates that resulted in a change to EGP and the amortization of DAC have been revisions to expected future investment
returns, expenses, mortality and in-force or persistency assumptions resulting in net DAC amortization deceleration of $14 million in 2007, net DAC amortization acceleration of
$2 million in 2006, and net DAC amortization deceleration of $2 million in 2005. The 2005 amortization deceleration included $55 million related to our subsequently disposed
variable annuity business for which we no longer have any DAC, but was largely offset by $51 million of amortization acceleration related to investment contracts. The amortization acceleration
on fixed annuity investment contracts was primarily due to higher than expected lapses on market value adjusted annuities and faster than anticipated investment portfolio yield declines.   

For
quantification of the impact of these estimates and assumptions on Allstate Financial, see the Allstate Financial Segment and Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of
this document and Note 2 and 10 of the consolidated financial statements.   

           Reserve for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Estimation       Reserves are established to provide for the
estimated costs of paying claims and claims expenses under insurance policies we have issued. Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of property-liability
insurance claims and claims expense reserves. These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including claims that have been incurred but not reported ("IBNR"),
as of the financial statement date.   

           Characteristics of Reserves         Reserves are established independently of business segment management for each business segment
and line of business based on estimates of the ultimate cost to settle claims, less losses that have been paid. The significant lines of business are auto, homeowners, and   

  40  

other
lines for Allstate Protection, and asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines for Discontinued Lines and Coverages. Allstate Protection's claims are typically reported promptly with
relatively little reporting lag between the date of occurrence and the date the loss is reported. Auto and homeowners liability losses generally take an average of about two years to settle, while
auto physical damage, homeowners property and other personal lines have an average settlement time of less than one year. Discontinued Lines and Coverages involve long-tail losses, such as
those related to asbestos and environmental claims, which often involve substantial reporting lags and extended times to settle.   

Reserves
are the difference between the estimated ultimate cost of losses incurred and the amount of paid losses as of the reporting date. Reserves are estimated for both reported and
unreported claims, and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling all incurred claims. We update our reserve estimates quarterly and as new information becomes available
or as events emerge that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior year reserve estimates (reserve reestimates), which may be material, are determined by comparing updated
estimates of ultimate losses to prior estimates, and the differences are recorded as property-liability insurance claims and claims expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period
such changes are determined. Estimating the ultimate cost of claims and claims expenses is an inherently uncertain and complex process involving a high degree of judgment and is subject to the
evaluation of numerous variables.   

           The Actuarial Methods used to Develop Reserve Estimates         Reserves estimates are derived by using several different actuarial
estimation methods that are variations on one primary actuarial technique. The actuarial technique is known as a "chain ladder" estimation process in which historical loss patterns are applied to
actual paid losses and reported losses (paid losses plus individual case reserves established by claim adjusters) for an accident year or a report year to create an estimate of how losses are likely
to develop over time. An accident year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims occurred. A report year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims are
reported. Both classifications are used to prepare estimates of required reserves for payments to be made in the future.
The key assumptions affecting our reserve estimates comprise data elements including claim counts, paid losses, case reserves, and development factors calculated with this data.   

          In
the chain ladder estimation technique, a ratio (development factor) is calculated which compares current period results to results in the prior period for each accident year. A
three-year or two-year average development factor, based on historical results, is usually multiplied by the current period experience to estimate the development of losses of
each accident year into the next time period. The development factors for the future time periods for each accident year are compounded over the remaining future periods to calculate an estimate of
ultimate losses for each accident year. The implicit assumption of this technique is that an average of historical development factors is predictive of future loss development, as the significant size
of our experience data base achieves a high degree of statistical credibility in actuarial projections of this type. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process, the
implicit assumption being that a multi-year average development factor includes an adequate provision. Occasionally, unusual aberrations in loss patterns are caused by external and
internal factors such as changes in claim reporting, settlement patterns, unusually large losses, process changes, legal or regulatory changes, and other influences. In these instances, analyses of
alternate development factor selections are performed to evaluate the effect of these factors, and actuarial judgment is applied to make appropriate development factor assumptions needed to develop a
best estimate of ultimate losses.   

           How Reserve Estimates are Established and Updated         Reserve estimates are developed at a very detailed level, and the results
of these numerous micro-level best estimates are aggregated to form a consolidated reserve estimate. For example, over one thousand actuarial estimates of the types described   

  41  

above
are prepared each quarter to estimate losses for each line of insurance, major components of losses (such as coverages and perils), major states or groups of states and for reported losses and
IBNR. The actuarial methods described above are used to analyze the settlement patterns of claims by determining the development factors for specific data elements that are necessary components of a
reserve estimation process. Development factors are calculated quarterly for data elements such as, claim counts reported and settled, paid losses, and paid losses combined with case reserves. The
calculation of development factors from changes in these data elements also impacts claim severity (average cost per claim) trends, which is a common industry reference used to explain changes in
reserve estimates. The historical development patterns for these data elements are used as the assumptions to calculate reserve estimates.   

          Often,
several different estimates are prepared for each detailed component, incorporating alternative analyses of changing claim settlement patterns and other influences on losses, from
which we select our best estimate for each component, occasionally incorporating additional analyses and actuarial judgment, as described above. These micro-level estimates are not based on a single
set of assumptions. Actuarial judgments that may be applied to these components of certain micro-level estimates generally do not have a material impact on the consolidated level of reserves.
Moreover, this detailed micro-level process does not permit or result in a compilation of a company-wide roll up to generate a range of needed loss reserves that would be meaningful. Based
on our review of these estimates, our best estimate of required reserves for each state/line/coverage component is recorded for each accident year,
and the required reserves for each component are summed to create the reserve balances carried on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

          Reserves
are reestimated quarterly, by combining historical results with current actual results to calculate new development factors. This process incorporates the historic and latest
actual trends, and other underlying changes in the data elements used to calculate reserve estimates. New development factors are likely to differ from previous development factors used in prior
reserve estimates because actual results (claims reported or settled, losses paid, or changes to case reserves) occur differently than the implied assumptions contained in the previous development
factor calculations. If claims reported, paid losses, or case reserves changes are greater or lower than the levels estimated by previous development factors, reserve reestimates increase or decrease.
When actual development of these data elements is different than the historical development pattern used in a prior period reserve estimate, a new reserve is determined. The difference between
indicated reserves based on new reserve estimates and recorded reserves (the previous estimate) is the amount of reserve reestimate and an increase or decrease in property-liability insurance claims
and claims expense will be recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Total Property-liability reserve reestimates, after-tax, as a percent of net income, in 2005, 2006 and
2007 were 17.2%, 12.6% and 2.4%, respectively. For Property-Liability, the 3-year average of reserve reestimates as a percentage of total reserves was a favorable 3.1%, for Allstate
Protection, the 3-year average of reserve estimates was a favorable 4.3% and for Discontinued Lines and Coverages the 3-year average of reserve reestimates was an unfavorable
5.2%, each of these results being consistent within a reasonable actuarial tolerance for our respective businesses. Allstate Protection reserve reestimates were primarily the result of claim severity
development that was better than expected and late reported loss development that was better than expected due to lower frequency trends, and for Discontinued Lines and Coverages, reestimates were
primarily a result of increased reported claim activity (claims frequency). A more detailed discussion of reserve reestimates is presented in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
section of this document.   

  42  

The
following table shows claims and claims expense reserves by operating segment and line of business as of December 31:   

Allstate Protection Reserve Estimates     

           Factors Affecting Reserve Estimates         Reserve estimates are developed based on the processes and historical development trends
as previously described. These estimates are considered in conjunction with known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including our experience with similar cases, actual claims
paid, differing payment patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic
conditions. When we experience changes of the type previously mentioned, we may need to apply actuarial judgment in the determination and selection of development factors considered more reflective of
the new trends, such as combining shorter or longer periods of historical results with current actual results to produce development factors based on two-year, three-year, or
longer development periods to reestimate our reserves. For example, if a legal change is expected to have a significant impact on the development of claim severity for a coverage which is part of a
particular line of insurance in a specific state, actuarial judgment is applied to determine appropriate development factors that will most accurately reflect the expected impact on that specific
estimate. Another example would be when a change in economic conditions is expected to affect the cost of repairs to damaged autos or property for a particular line, coverage, or state, actuarial
judgment is applied to determine appropriate development factors to use in the reserve estimate that will most accurately reflect the expected impacts on severity development.   

          As
claims are reported, for certain liability claims of sufficient size and complexity, the field adjusting staff establishes case reserve estimates of ultimate cost, based on their
assessment of facts and circumstances related to each individual claim. For other claims which occur in large volumes and settle in a relatively short time frame, it is not practical or efficient to
set case reserves for each claim, and a statistical case reserve is set for these claims based on estimating techniques previously described. In the normal course of business, we may also supplement
our claims processes by utilizing third party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, other professionals and information sources to assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe
related claims.   

          Historically,
the case reserves set by the field adjusting staff have not proven to be an entirely accurate estimate of the ultimate cost of claims. To provide for this, a development
reserve is estimated using previously described processes, and allocated to pending claims as a supplement to case reserves. Typically, the case and supplemental development reserves comprise about
90% of total reserves.   

  43  

Another major component of reserves is IBNR. Typically, IBNR comprises about 10% of total reserves.   

          Generally,
the initial reserves for a new accident year are established based on severity assumptions for different business segments, lines, and coverages based on historical
relationships to relevant inflation indicators, and reserves for prior accident years are statistically determined using processes previously described. Changes in auto current year claim severity are
generally influenced by inflation in the medical and auto repair sectors of the economy. We mitigate these effects through various loss management programs. Injury claims are affected largely by
medical cost inflation while physical damage claims are affected largely by auto repair cost inflation and used car prices. For auto physical damage coverages, we monitor our rate of increase in
average cost per claim against a weighted average of the Maintenance and Repair price index and the Parts   Equipment price index. We believe our claim settlement initiatives, such as
improvements to the claim review and settlement process, the use of special investigative units to detect fraud and handle suspect claims, litigation management and defense strategies, as well as
various other loss management initiatives underway, contribute to the mitigation of injury and physical damage severity trends.   

          Changes
in homeowners current year claim severity are generally influenced by inflation in the cost of building materials, the cost of construction and property repair services, the cost
of replacing home furnishings and other contents, the types of claims that qualify for coverage, deductibles and other economic and environmental factors. We employ various loss management programs to
mitigate the effect of these factors.   

          As
loss experience for the current year develops for each type of loss, it is monitored relative to initial assumptions until it is judged to have sufficient statistical credibility.
From that point in time and forward, reserves are reestimated using statistical actuarial processes to reflect the impact actual loss trends have on development factors incorporated into the actuarial
estimation processes. Statistical credibility is usually achieved by the end of the first calendar year, however, when trends for the current accident year exceed initial assumptions sooner, they are
usually given credibility, and reserves are increased accordingly.   

          The
very detailed processes for developing reserve estimates and the lack of a need and existence of a common set of assumptions or development factors, limits aggregate reserve level
testing for variability of data elements. However, by applying standard actuarial methods to consolidated historic accident year loss data for major loss types, comprising auto injury losses, auto
physical damage losses and homeowner losses, we develop variability analyses consistent with the way we develop reserves by
measuring the potential variability of development factors, as described in the section titled, "Potential Reserve Estimate Variability" below.   

Causes of Reserve Estimate Uncertainty         Since reserves are estimates of the unpaid portions of claims and claims expenses
that
have occurred, including IBNR losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, requires regular reevaluation and refinement of estimates to determine our
ultimate loss estimate.   

          At
each reporting date, the highest degree of uncertainty in estimates of losses arises from claims remaining to be settled for the current accident year and the most recent preceding
accident year. The greatest degree of uncertainty exists in the current accident year because the current accident year contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been reported or
settled but must be estimated as of the current reporting date. Most of these losses relate to damaged property such as automobiles and homes, and to medical care for injuries from accidents. During
the first year after the end of an accident year, a large portion of the total losses for that accident year are settled. When accident year   

  44  

losses
paid through the end of the first year following the initial accident year are incorporated into updated actuarial estimates, the trends inherent in the settlement of claims emerge more
clearly. Consequently, this is the point in time at which we tend to make our largest reestimates of losses for an accident year. After the second year, the losses that we pay for an accident year
typically relate to claims that are more difficult to settle, such as those involving serious injuries or litigation. Private passenger auto insurance provides a good illustration of the uncertainty
of future loss estimates: our typical annual percentage payout of reserves for an accident year is approximately 45% in the first year after the end of the accident year, 20% in the second year, 15%
in the third year, 10% in the fourth year, and the remaining 10% thereafter.   

           Reserves for Catastrophe Losses         Property-Liability claims and claims expense reserves also include reserves for catastrophe
losses. Catastrophe losses are an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance industry that have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to potentially material
year-to-year fluctuations in our results of operations and financial position. We define a "catastrophe" as an event that produces pretax losses before reinsurance in excess of
$1 million and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event threshold of average claims in a specific
area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event. Catastrophes are caused by various natural events including high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical
storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes. We are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events, such as certain acts of terrorism or industrial accidents. The nature and level of
catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted.   

          The
estimation of claims and claims expense reserves for catastrophes also comprises estimates of losses from reported claims and IBNR, primarily for damage to property. In general, our
estimates for catastrophe reserves are based on claim adjuster inspections and the application of historical loss development factors as described previously. However, depending on the nature of the
catastrophe, as
noted above, the estimation process can be further complicated. For example, for hurricanes, complications could include the inability of insureds to be able to promptly report losses, limitations
placed on claims adjusting staff affecting their ability to inspect losses, determining whether losses are covered by our homeowners policy (generally for damage caused by wind or wind driven rain),
or specifically excluded coverage caused by flood, estimating additional living expenses, and assessing the impact of demand surge, exposure to mold damage, and the effects of numerous other
considerations, including the timing of a catastrophe in relation to other events, such as at or near the end of a financial reporting period, which can affect the availability of information needed
to estimate reserves for that reporting period. In these situations, we may need to adapt our practices to accommodate these circumstances in order to determine a best estimate of our losses from a
catastrophe. As an example, in 2005 to complete an estimate for certain areas affected by Hurricane Katrina and not yet inspected by our claims adjusting staff, or where we believed our historical
loss development factors were not predictive, we relied on analysis of actual claim notices received compared to total policies in force, as well as visual, governmental and third party information,
including aerial photos, area observations, and data on wind speed and flood depth to the extent available.   

           Potential Reserve Estimate Variability         The aggregation of numerous micro-level estimates for each business segment, line of
insurance, major components of losses (such as coverages and perils), and major states or groups of states for reported losses and IBNR forms the reserve liability recorded in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position. Because of this detailed approach to developing our reserve estimates, there is not a single set of assumptions that determine our reserve estimates at the
consolidated level. Moreover, management does not compile a range of reserve estimates because management does not believe the processes that we follow will produce a statistically credible or
reliable   

  45  

actuarial
reserve range that would be meaningful. Reserve estimates, by their very nature, are very complex to determine and subject to significant judgment, and do not represent an exact
determination for each outstanding claim. Accordingly, as actual claims, and/or paid losses, and/or case reserve results emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle will be different than
previously estimated.   

          To
develop a statistical indication of potential reserve variability within reasonably likely possible outcomes, an actuarial technique (stochastic modeling) is applied to the
countrywide consolidated data elements for paid losses and paid losses combined with case reserves separately for injury losses, auto physical damage losses, and homeowners losses excluding
catastrophe losses. Based on the combined historical variability of the development factors calculated for these data elements an estimate of the standard error or standard deviation around these
reserve estimates is calculated within each accident year for the last eleven years for each type of loss. The variability of these reserve estimates within one standard deviation of the mean (a
measure of frequency of dispersion often viewed to be an acceptable level of accuracy) is believed by management to represent a reasonable and statistically probable measure of potential variability.
Based on our products and coverages, historical experience, the statistical credibility of our extensive data, and stochastic modeling of actuarial chain ladder methodologies used to develop reserve
estimates, we estimate that the potential variability of our Allstate Protection reserves, within a reasonable probability of other possible outcomes, may be approximately plus or minus 4%, or plus or
minus $400 million in net income. A lower level of variability exists for auto injury losses, which comprise approximately 70% of reserves, due to their relatively stable development patterns
over a longer duration of time required to settle claims. Other types of losses, such as auto physical damage, homeowners losses and other losses, which comprise about 30% of reserves, tend to have
greater variability, but are settled in a much shorter period of time. Although this evaluation reflects most
reasonably likely outcomes, it is possible the final outcome may fall below or above these amounts. Historical variability of reserve estimates is reported in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims
Expense Reserves section of this document.   

           Adequacy of Reserve Estimates         We believe our net claims and claims expense reserves are appropriately established based on
available methodology, facts, technology, laws and regulations. We calculate and record a single best reserve estimate, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial standards, for each line of
insurance, its components (coverages and perils), and state, for reported losses and for IBNR losses and as a result we believe that no other estimate is better than our recorded amount. Due to the
uncertainties involved, the ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on our best estimates.   

Discontinued Lines and Coverages Reserve Estimates     

           Characteristics of Discontinued Lines Exposure         We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Asbestos claims
relate primarily to bodily injuries asserted by people who were exposed to asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up
costs.   

          Our
exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises principally from assumed reinsurance coverage written during the 1960s through the
mid-1980s, including reinsurance on primary insurance written on large United States companies, and from direct excess insurance written from 1972 through 1985, including substantial
excess general liability coverages on large U.S. companies. Additional exposure stems from direct primary commercial insurance written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Other
discontinued lines exposures primarily relate to general liability and product liability mass tort claims, such as those for medical devices and other products.   

  46  

In
1986, the general liability policy form used by us and others in the property-liability industry was amended to introduce an "absolute pollution exclusion," which excluded coverage
for environmental damage claims, and to add an asbestos exclusion. Most general liability policies issued prior to 1987 contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage. General
liability policies issued in 1987 and thereafter contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage and annual aggregate limits for all
coverages. Our experience to date is that these policy form changes have limited the extent of our exposure to environmental and asbestos claim risks.   

          Our
exposure to liability for asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines losses manifests differently depending on whether it arises from assumed reinsurance coverage, direct
excess insurance, or direct primary commercial insurance. The direct insurance coverage we provided that covered asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines was substantially "excess" in
nature.   

          Direct
excess insurance and reinsurance involve coverage written by us for specific layers of protection above retentions and other insurance plans. The nature of excess coverage and
reinsurance provided to other insurers limits our exposure to loss to specific layers of protection in excess of policyholder retention on primary insurance plans. Our exposure is further limited by
the significant reinsurance that we had purchased on our direct excess business.   

          Our
assumed reinsurance business involved writing generally small participations in other insurers' reinsurance programs. The reinsured losses in which we participate may be a proportion
of all eligible losses or eligible losses in excess of defined retentions. The majority of our assumed reinsurance exposure, approximately 85%, is for excess of loss coverage, while the remaining 15%
is for pro-rata coverage.   

          Our
direct primary commercial insurance business did not include coverage to large asbestos manufacturers. This business comprises a cross section of policyholders engaged in many
diverse business sectors located throughout the country.   

           How Reserve Estimates are Established and Updated         We conduct an annual review in the third quarter of each year to evaluate
and establish asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines reserves. Reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best
practices and assuming no change in the regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive "ground up" methodology determines asbestos reserves based on assessments of the
characteristics of exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, and determines
environmental reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of exposure (e.g. environmental damages, respective shares of liability of potentially responsible parties, appropriateness
and cost of remediation) to pollution and related clean-up costs. The number and cost of these claims is affected by intense advertising by trial lawyers seeking asbestos plaintiffs, and
entities with asbestos exposure seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos liabilities, initially causing a delay in the reporting of claims, often followed by an acceleration and an
increase in claims and claims expenses as settlements occur.   

          After
evaluating our insureds' probable liabilities for asbestos and/or environmental claims, we evaluate our insureds' coverage programs for such claims. We consider our insureds' total
available insurance
coverage, including the coverage we issued. We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of policy language and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any.   

          Evaluation
of both the insureds' estimated liabilities and our exposure to the insureds depends heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and litigation environment. This
analysis is conducted by our specialized claims adjusting staff and legal counsel. Based on these evaluations, case reserves are   

  47  

established
by claims adjusting staff and actuarial analysis is employed to develop an IBNR reserve, which includes estimated potential reserve development and claims that have occurred but have not
been reported. As of December 31, 2007, IBNR was 63.2% of combined asbestos and environmental reserves.   

For
both asbestos and environmental reserves, we also evaluate our historical direct net loss and expense paid and incurred experience to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or
characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and incurred activity.   

           Other Discontinued Lines and Coverages         Reserves for Other Discontinued Lines provide for remaining loss and loss expense
liabilities related to business no longer written by us, other than asbestos and environmental, and are presented in the following table.   

Other mass torts describes direct excess and reinsurance general liability coverage provided for cumulative injury losses other than asbestos and environmental.
Workers' compensation and commercial and other include run-off from discontinued direct primary, direct excess and reinsurance commercial insurance operations of various coverage exposures
other than asbestos and environmental. Reserves are based on considerations similar to those previously described, as they relate to the characteristics of specific individual coverage exposures.   

           Potential Reserve Estimate Variability         Establishing Discontinued Lines and Coverages net loss reserves for asbestos,
environmental and other discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are much greater than those presented by other types of claims. Among the complications are lack of historical data,
long reporting delays, uncertainty as to the number and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the
determination, availability and timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability; availability and collectibility of recoveries from reinsurance;
retrospectively determined premiums and other contractual agreements; estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos
producers and other asbestos defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are
covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Courts have reached different and
sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to
defend; how policy limits are determined; how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage. Our reserves for
asbestos and environmental exposures could be affected by tort reform, class action litigation, and other potential legislation and judicial decisions. Environmental exposures could also be affected
by a change in the existing federal Superfund law and similar state statutes. There can be no assurance that any reform legislation will be enacted or that any such legislation will provide for a
fair, effective and cost-efficient system for settlement of asbestos or environmental claims. We believe these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future, and the ultimate
costs may vary materially from the amounts currently recorded resulting in material changes in   

  48  

loss
reserves. Historical variability of reserve estimates is demonstrated in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

           Adequacy of Reserve Estimates         Management believes its net loss reserves for environmental, asbestos and other discontinued
lines exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws, regulations, and assessments of other pertinent factors and characteristics of exposure (e.g. claim
activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, assuming no change in the legal, legislative or economic
environment. Due to the
uncertainties and factors described above, management believes it is not practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

           Further Discussion of Reserve Estimates         For further discussion of these estimates and quantification of the impact of
reserve
estimates, reserve reestimates and assumptions, see Notes 7 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements and the Catastrophe Losses, Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves and
Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this document.   

            Reserve for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits Estimation        Benefits for these contracts are
payable over many years; accordingly, the reserves are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of future expected net premiums.
Long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses are used when establishing the reserve for life-contingent
contract benefits payable under insurance policies including traditional life insurance, life-contingent annuities and voluntary health products. These assumptions, which for
life-contingent annuities and traditional life insurance are applied using the net level premium method, include provisions for adverse deviation and generally vary by such characteristics
as type of annuity benefit or coverage, year of issue and policy duration. Future investment yield assumptions are determined based upon prevailing investment yields as well as estimated reinvestment
yields. Mortality, morbidity and policy termination assumptions are based on our experience and industry experience. Expense assumptions include the estimated effects of inflation and expenses to be
incurred beyond the premium-paying period. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued, are consistent with assumptions for determining DAC amortization for these contracts, and
are generally not changed during the policy coverage period. However, if actual experience emerges in a manner that is significantly adverse relative to the original assumptions, adjustments to DAC or
reserves may be required resulting in a charge to earnings which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We periodically review the adequacy of these
reserves and recoverability of DAC for these contracts on an aggregate basis using actual experience. In the event that actual experience is significantly adverse compared to the original assumptions
any remaining unamortized DAC balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve may be required. The effects of changes in reserve estimates
are reported in the results of operations in the period in which the changes are determined. The company has not recognized a charge of this nature in the three years ended December 31, 2007.
We anticipate that mortality, investment and reinvestment yields, and policy terminations are the factors that would be most likely to require adjustment to these reserves or related DAC.   

          For
further discussion of these policies, see Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors section of this document.   

   PROPERTY-LIABILITY 2007 HIGHLIGHTS     

Premiums
written, an operating measure that is defined and reconciled to premiums earned on page 54, decreased 1.2% to $27.18 billion in 2007 from
$27.53 billion in 2006. Allstate brand    
 
  49  

standard
auto premiums written increased 2.1% to $16.04 billion in 2007 from $15.70 billion in 2006. Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decreased 3.6% to $5.71 billion in
2007 from $5.93 billion in 2006.   

The
impact of the cost of the catastrophe reinsurance program on premiums written totaled $896 million in 2007 compared to $607 million in 2006. Excluding this
cost, premiums written decreased 0.2% in 2007 from 2006.
           Premium
operating measures and statistics contributing to the overall Allstate brand standard auto premiums written growth were the following:

0.9%
increase in PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006
           1.5%
decrease in new issued applications in 2007 compared to 2006
           0.5
point decline in the renewal ratio to 89.5% in 2007 compared to 90.0% in 2006
           0.7%
increase in the six month policy term average premium to $423 in 2007 from $420 in 2006
     
        Premium
operating measures and statistics contributing to the overall Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decline were the following:

3.4%
decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006
           18.6%
decrease in new issued applications in 2007 compared to 2006
           0.8
point decline in the renewal ratio to 86.5% in 2007 compared to 87.3% in 2006
           2.2%
increase in the twelve month policy term average premium to $850 in 2007 from $832 in 2006
     
        The
Allstate brand standard auto loss ratio increased 4.3 points to 65.8 in 2007 from 61.5 in 2006. Standard auto property damage gross claim frequency increased 3.7% in
2007 from 2006, and bodily injury gross claim frequency decreased 1.9% in 2007 from 2006. Auto property damage and bodily injury paid severities increased 1.8% and 6.0%, respectively, in 2007 from
2006.
           The
Allstate brand homeowners loss ratio, which includes catastrophes, increased 16.1 points to 66.5 in 2007 from 50.4 in 2006. Homeowner gross claim frequency, excluding
catastrophes, increased 7.1% in 2007 from 2006. Homeowners paid severity, excluding catastrophes, increased 10.6% in 2007 from 2006.
           Catastrophe
losses in 2007 totaled $1.41 billion compared to $810 million in 2006. Impact of prior year reserve reestimates on catastrophe losses was
$127 million unfavorable in 2007 compared to a favorable impact of $223 million in 2006.
           Prior
year net favorable reserve reestimates in 2007 totaled $172 million compared to $971 million in 2006.
           Underwriting
income for Property-Liability was $2.78 billion in 2007 compared to $4.50 billion in 2006. The combined ratio was 89.8 in 2007 compared to 83.6 in
2006. Underwriting income (loss), a measure not based on GAAP, is defined below.
           Investments
as of December 31, 2007 decreased 1.8% from December 31, 2006 and net investment income increased 6.4% in 2007 compared to 2006.    
 
  50  

We
introduced innovative products and services such as Allstate  YCA, Allstate  Your Choice Homeowners ("YCH"), Allstate Blue SM ,
Allstate Green SM  and Encompass Edge SM .    

PROPERTY-LIABILITY OPERATIONS     

           Overview       Our Property-Liability operations consist of two business segments: Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and
Coverages. Allstate Protection is comprised of two brands, the Allstate brand and Encompass  brand. Allstate Protection is principally engaged in the sale of personal property and casualty
insurance, primarily private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, to individuals in the United States and Canada. Discontinued Lines and Coverages includes results from insurance coverage that we
no longer write and results for certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. These segments are consistent with the groupings of financial information that management uses to
evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of resources.   

          Underwriting
income (loss), a measure that is not based on GAAP and is reconciled to net income on page 52, is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense
("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges, as determined using GAAP. We use this measure in our evaluation of results of operations to analyze
the profitability of the Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results. It is also an integral component of incentive compensation. It is useful for investors to evaluate
the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance. Net income is the GAAP measure most directly comparable to underwriting income (loss). Underwriting income (loss)
should not be considered as a substitute for net income and does not reflect the overall profitability of the business.   

          The
table below includes GAAP operating ratios we use to measure our profitability. We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability. They are calculated as
follows:   

Claims
and claims expense ("loss") ratio the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned. Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.
           Expense
ratio the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
           Combined
ratio the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and restructuring and related charges to premiums
earned. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums
earned.    

We
have also calculated the following impacts of specific items on the GAAP operating ratios because of the volatility of these items between fiscal periods.   

Effect
of catastrophe losses on combined ratio the percentage of catastrophe losses included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned. This ratio includes
prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
           Effect
of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums
earned. This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.
           Effect
of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio the percentage of restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
           Effect
of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio the ratio of claims and claims expense and other costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and
Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned. The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio and the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the
Property-Liability combined ratio.    
 
  51  

Summarized financial data, a reconciliation of underwriting income (loss) to net income and GAAP operating ratios for our Property-Liability operations for the years ended
December 31, are presented in the following table.   

(1)    Reserve
reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $127 million unfavorable in 2007, $223 million favorable in 2006 and $94 million unfavorable in 2005.    
  52  

ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT     

           Overview and Strategy       The Allstate Protection segment sells primarily private passenger auto and homeowners insurance to
individuals through Allstate Exclusive Agencies and Customer Information Centers under the Allstate brand and through independent agencies under both the Allstate brand and the Encompass brand.   

          The
key elements of the Allstate Protection strategy of consumer focus, innovation and loyalty are:   

Strategic
marketing to drive growth
           Expand
and increase effectiveness of distribution
           Maintain
leadership in pricing sophistication
           Provide
innovative products and services
           Extend
claims competitive advantage
           Maintain
a strong support foundation by continuing to effectively manage people, investments, technology and capital    

In
our strategy for the Allstate brand, we are seeking, through the utilization of our distribution channels, our sophisticated risk segmentation process ("Tiered Pricing") and targeted
consumer marketing, to attract and retain high lifetime value customers who will potentially provide profitability over the course of their relationship with us.   

          We
maintain a comprehensive marketing approach throughout the U.S. We have aligned agency and management compensation and the overall strategies of the Allstate brand to best serve our
customers by basing certain incentives on Allstate brand profitability, PIF growth, retention, and sales of financial products. We differentiate the Allstate brand from competitors by offering a
choice of products, including Allstate  YCA with options such as safe driving deductibles and a safe driving bonus, Allstate  YCH with options such as a claim-free
bonus and greater ability to tailor insurance coverage, Allstate Blue our non-standard auto product with features such as a loyalty bonus and roadside assistance coverage and Allstate
Green, our new eco-friendly insurance option that offers consumers a convenient way to help the environment.   

          Our
strategy for the Encompass brand includes enhancing pricing and product sophistication through our Tiered Pricing approach with the Encompass Edge product, increasing distribution
effectiveness and improving agency technology interfaces to support profitable growth. We are positioning the brand to expand product breadth and improve independent agency penetration by leveraging
technology and service capabilities.   

          Tiered
Pricing and underwriting are designed to enhance both our competitive position and profit potential, and produce a broader range of premiums that is more refined than the range
generated by the standard/non-standard model. Tiered Pricing includes our Strategic Risk Management program, which uses a number of risk evaluation factors including, to the extent legally
permissible, insurance scoring based on information that is obtained from credit reports. We continue to expand the number of tiers with successive rating program releases.   

          Substantially
all of new and approximately 86% of renewal business written for Allstate brand auto uses Tiered Pricing. For Allstate brand homeowners, approximately 93% of new and 57% of
renewal business written uses Tiered Pricing. For Allstate brand auto and homeowners business, our results indicate that over time, Tiered Pricing has improved our mix of customers towards those who
we consider   

  53  

high
lifetime value that generally have better retention and more favorable loss experience. Usually, standard auto customers are expected to have lower risks of loss than non-standard
auto customers.   

          We
are pursuing improvements in the overall customer experience through actions targeted to increase customer satisfaction and retention. These programs are designed around establishing
customer service
expectations and customer relationship building. Our claims strategy focuses on delivering fast, fair and consistent claim service while achieving loss cost management and customer satisfaction.   

          We
continue to enhance technology to integrate our distribution channels, improve customer service, facilitate the introduction of new products and services and reduce infrastructure
costs related to supporting agencies and handling claims. These actions and others are designed to optimize the effectiveness of our distribution and service channels by increasing the productivity of
the Allstate brand's exclusive agencies and our direct channel.   

          We
continue to manage our property catastrophe exposure in order to provide our shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the
variability of our earnings, while providing protection to our customers. Our property business includes personal homeowners, commercial property and other property lines. As of December 31,
2007, we have surpassed our goal to have no more than a 1% likelihood of exceeding our expected annual aggregate catastrophe losses by $2 billion, net of reinsurance, based on modeled
assumptions and applications currently available. The use of different assumptions and updates to industry models could materially change the projected loss.   

          Property
catastrophe exposure management includes purchasing reinsurance in areas that have known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and other
catastrophes. We are working for changes in the regulatory environment, including fewer restrictions on underwriting, recognizing the need for and improving appropriate risk based pricing and
promoting the creation of government sponsored, privately funded solutions for large catastrophes. While the actions that we take will be primarily focused on reducing the catastrophe exposure in our
property business, we also consider their impact on our ability to market our auto lines.   

          Pricing
of property products is typically intended to establish returns that we deem acceptable over a long-term period. Losses, including losses from catastrophic events and
weather-related losses (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze losses not meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe) are accrued on an occurrence basis within the policy period. Therefore,
in any reporting period, loss experience from catastrophic events and weather-related losses may contribute to negative or positive underwriting performance relative to the expectations we
incorporated into the products' pricing. Accordingly, property products are more capital intensive than other personal lines products.   

             Premiums written   , an operating measure, is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period. Premiums earned is a
GAAP measure. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the
unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Since the Allstate brand policy periods are typically 6 months for auto
and 12 months for homeowners, Encompass standard auto and homeowners policy periods are typically 12 months and non-standard auto policy periods are typically
6 months, rate changes will generally be recognized in premiums earned over a period of 6 to 24 months. During this period, premiums written at a higher rate will cause an increase in
the balance of unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

  54  

The
following table shows the unearned premium balance at December 31 and the timeframe in which we expect to recognize these premiums as earned.   

A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

(1)    Year
ended December 31, 2006 includes the transfer at January 1, 2006 of $152 million in unearned premiums to Property-Liability related to the loan protection
business previously managed by Allstate Financial. Prior periods have not been reclassified.    
  55  

Premiums written by brand are shown in the following table.   

(1)    2007
includes the impact from the fourth quarter 2007 discontinuation and reinstatement of mandatory personal injury protection in the state of Florida.
      (2)    Other
personal lines include commercial lines, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.    

          Premiums earned by brand are shown in the following table.   

Premium operating measures and statistics that are used to analyze the business are calculated and described below. Measures and statistics
presented for Allstate brand exclude Allstate Canada, loan protection and specialty auto.   

New
issued applications: Item counts of automobiles or homeowners insurance applications for insurance policies that were issued during the period. Does not include
automobiles that are added by existing customers.
           Renewal
ratio: Renewal policies issued during the period, based on contract effective dates, divided by the total policies issued 6 months prior for auto
(12 months prior for Encompass brand standard auto) or 12 months prior for homeowners.
           PIF:
Policy counts are based on items rather than customers. A multi-car customer would generate multiple item (policy) counts, even if all cars were insured
under one policy.
           Average
premium gross written: Gross premiums written divided by issued item count. Gross premiums written do not include the impacts from mid-term
premium adjustments, ceded reinsurance premiums, or premium refund accruals. Allstate brand average premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 6 months for auto and
12 months for homeowners. Encompass brand average premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 12 months for standard auto and homeowners and 6 months
for non-standard auto.    
 
  56  

Standard auto premiums written    increased 1.9% to $17.16 billion in 2007 from $16.84 billion in 2006, following a 3.0%
increase in 2006 from $16.35 billion in 2005.   

(1)    Policy
term is six months for Allstate brand and twelve months for Encompass brand.    

          Allstate brand standard auto premiums written increased 2.1% to $16.04 billion in 2007 from $15.70 billion in 2006, following a 3.5%
increase in 2006 from $15.17 billion in 2005. The Allstate brand standard auto premiums written increase in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to increases in PIF and average premium. The 0.9%
increase in Allstate brand standard auto PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 was primarily the result of growth in policies available for renewal. Our Allstate
brand standard auto growth strategy includes actions such as the continued rollout of YCA policy options, increased marketing, the continued refinement of Tiered Pricing, underwriting actions and
agency growth, while recognizing that the impact of catastrophe management actions on cross-sell opportunities and competitive pressures in certain markets may lessen their success.   

          Allstate
brand standard auto new issued applications are shown in the table below.   

(1)    Hurricane
exposure states are Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia and Washington, D.C.    

          Allstate brand standard auto average premium increased 0.7% in 2007 compared to 2006. Standard auto average premium is impacted by rate changes,
geographic and product shifts in the mix of business and changes in customer preferences. The Allstate brand standard auto renewal ratio declined 0.5 points in 2007 compared to 2006 due to competitive
conditions and the impact of our property catastrophe management actions on cross-sell opportunities.   

          Allstate
brand standard auto premiums written increased in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increases in PIF and average premium. The 2.7% increase in Allstate brand standard auto PIF as of
December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 was primarily the result of growth in policies available for renewal and new issued applications. Allstate brand standard auto average
premium increased 0.7% in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to higher average new premiums reflecting a shift by policyholders to newer and more expensive autos, partly offset by net rate decreases.
The Allstate brand standard auto renewal ratio declined 0.5 points in 2006 compared to 2005 due to competitive pressures in certain states.   

          Encompass
brand standard auto premiums written decreased 1.1% to $1.13 billion in 2007 from $1.14 billion in 2006, following a 3.1% decrease in 2006 from
$1.17 billion in 2005. The Encompass brand standard auto premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to declines in PIF and average premium. The 1.9% decline in Encompass brand
standard auto PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 was due to a decline in the policies available to renew more than   

  57  

offsetting
new business production. The 12-month average premium decreased 1.4% in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a change in the mix of business to policies with basic coverages and fewer
features resulting in lower average premium. We expect the rate of decline in Encompass brand standard auto PIF to continue to moderate as we pursue growth opportunities in this channel. Our Encompass
brand growth strategy includes the continued rollout of Encompass Edge, which provides more segmented pricing of auto and homeowners coverage.   

          Encompass
brand standard auto premiums written decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 due to declines in PIF. The 1.8% decline in Encompass brand standard auto PIF as of December 31,
2006 compared to December 31, 2005 was due to a decline in the policies available to renew and from the negative impact of our catastrophe management actions in certain markets more than
offsetting new business. The 12-month average premium decreased 0.1% in 2006 compared to 2005.   

          Rate
increases that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued in all locations. The following table shows the net rate changes
that were approved for standard auto during 2007 and 2006. These rate changes do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing new business in a state.   

(1)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end premiums
written.
      (2)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those
states.
      (3)    The
prior period has been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
      (4)    Excludes
the impact of rate changes in the state of Florida relating to the discontinuation and reinstatement of mandatory personal injury protection.    

             Non-standard auto premiums written    decreased 15.7% to $1.25 billion in 2007
from $1.48 billion in 2006, following a 13.1% decrease in 2006 from $1.70 billion in 2005.   

Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written decreased 14.9% to $1.18 billion in 2007 from $1.39 billion in 2006,
following a 12.7% decrease in 2006 from $1.59 billion in 2005. The Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to declines in PIF.
PIF decreased 12.1% as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 due to new business production insufficient to offset the decline in polices available to renew. Allstate brand
non-standard auto new issued applications increased 9.6% in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to the introduction of our Allstate Blue product, which has been launched in 12 states as of
December 31, 2007. The Allstate brand non-standard auto average premium in 2007 was comparable to 2006.   

  58  

Allstate
brand non-standard auto premiums written decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 due to declines in PIF and average premium. PIF decreased 15.0% as of December 31,
2006 compared to December 31, 2005 due to new business production insufficient to offset the inherently low renewal ratio in this business. Allstate brand non-standard auto new
issued applications decreased 11.4% in 2006 compared to 2005. The decline of 1.9% in average premium in 2006 compared to 2005 is due to a shift in the geographic mix of business and net rate
decreases.   

          Encompass
brand non-standard auto premiums written decreased 27.7% to $68 million in 2007 from $94 million in 2006, following a 19.0% decrease in 2006 from
$116 million in 2005. The Encompass brand non-standard auto premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to declines in PIF, because new business was
insufficient to offset the decline in polices available to renew, and lower average premium due to geographic shifts in the mix of business, partially offset by recent non-standard auto
rate changes in specific markets.   

          Encompass
brand non-standard auto premiums written decreased in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to declines in PIF and average premium.   

          Rate
increases that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued in all locations. The following table shows the net rate changes
that were approved for non-standard auto during 2007 and 2006. These rate changes do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing new business in a state.   

(1)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end premiums
written.
      (2)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those
states.
      (3)    The
prior period has been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
      (4)    Excludes
the impact of rate changes in the state of Florida relating to the discontinuation and reinstatement of mandatory personal injury protection.    

             Homeowners premiums written    decreased 4.1% to $6.25 billion in 2007 from
$6.52 billion in 2006, following a 2.0% decrease in 2006 from $6.65 billion in 2005. Excluding the cost of catastrophe reinsurance, premiums written declined 0.1% in 2007 compared to
2006. For a more detailed discussion on reinsurance, see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A and Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.   

Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decreased 3.6% to $5.71 billion in 2007 from $5.93 billion in 2006, following a 1.9%
decrease in 2006 from $6.04 billion in 2005. The Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to increases in ceded   

  59  

reinsurance
premiums and a 3.4% decline in PIF, due to lower new issued applications and renewal ratio, partially offset by increases in average premium, reflecting rate changes, including our net
cost of reinsurance. Actions taken to manage our catastrophe exposure in areas with known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and other catastrophes have had an
impact on our new business writings for homeowners insurance, as demonstrated by the decline in Allstate brand homeowners new issued applications in the following table. We expect this trend to
continue in 2008 as we continue to address our catastrophe exposure.   

(1)    Hurricane
exposure states are Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas and Virginia and Washington, D.C.    

          Allstate brand homeowners premiums written declined in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increases in ceded reinsurance premiums, partially offset by
increases in PIF and average premium. The 0.1% increase in Allstate brand homeowners PIF as of December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 was the result of growth in policies
available for renewal.   

          PIF
and the renewal ratio will continue to be negatively impacted by our catastrophe management actions such as our decision to discontinue offering coverage by Allstate Floridian
Insurance Company and its subsidiaries ("Allstate Floridian") on approximately 120,000 property policies as part of a renewal rights and reinsurance arrangement with Royal Palm Insurance Company
("Royal Palm") entered into in 2006 ("Royal Palm 1"), and separately, an additional 106,000 property policies under a renewal rights agreement with Royal Palm entered into in 2007 ("Royal Palm 2").
Allstate Floridian no longer offers coverage on the policies involved in Royal Palm 1 and Royal Palm 2 when they expire, at which time Royal Palm may offer coverage to these policyholders. The
policies involved in Royal Palm 1 and Royal Palm 2 expired at a rate of 4% in the fourth quarter of 2006, and 81% during 2007, and are expected to expire at a rate of 14% in the first quarter of 2008
and 1% in the second quarter of 2008. The Allstate brand homeowners renewal ratio declined 0.8 points in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to our catastrophe management actions.   

          The
Allstate brand homeowners average premium increased 2.2% in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher average renewal premiums related to increases in insured value and approved
rate changes, including our net cost of reinsurance, partially offset by a shift in geographic mix as our catastrophe management actions reduce premiums written in areas with generally higher average
premiums.   

          The
Allstate brand homeowners average premium increased 4.1% in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to higher average renewal premiums related to increases in insured value and rate
changes approved, including our net cost of reinsurance. The Allstate brand homeowners renewal ratio declined 0.9 points in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to our catastrophe management actions.   

          Encompass
brand homeowners premiums written decreased 8.7% to $538 million in 2007 from $589 million in 2006, following a 3.6% decrease in 2006 from $611 million in
2005. The Encompass brand homeowners premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to increases in ceded   

  60  

reinsurance
premiums and a decline in PIF, partially offset by increases in average premium. The 8.2% decline in Encompass brand homeowners PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to
December 31, 2006 was partially due to a decline in the renewal ratio in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to our catastrophe management actions in certain markets. The 12 month
average premium increased 4.0% in 2007 compared to 2006 due to rate actions taken in the current year, including those taken for our net cost of reinsurance, and increases in insured value.   

          Encompass
brand homeowners premiums written decreased in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increases in ceded reinsurance and declines in PIF, partially offset by increases in average
premium. The 3.3% decline in Encompass brand homeowners PIF as of December 31, 2006 compared to December 31, 2005 was due to lower retention. The decline in the renewal ratio in 2006
compared to 2005 was primarily due to catastrophe management actions. The 12 month average premium increased 4.6% in 2006 compared to 2005 due to rate actions taken during the current and prior
year and increases in insured value.   

          We
continue to pursue rate changes for homeowners in all locations when indicated. The following table shows the net rate changes that were approved for homeowners during 2007 and 2006,
including rate changes approved based on our net cost of reinsurance. For a discussion relating to reinsurance costs, see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A
and Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

(1)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a percentage of total countrywide prior year-end premiums
written.
      (2)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a percentage of total prior year-end premiums written in those
states.
      (3)    The
prior period has been restated to conform to the current period presentation.
      (4)    Includes
Washington D.C.    
  61  

Underwriting results    are shown in the following table.   

Allstate Protection generated underwriting income of $2.84 billion during 2007 compared to $4.64 billion in 2006. The decrease was
primarily due to lower favorable prior year reserve reestimates, higher catastrophe losses, increases in auto and homeowners claim frequency excluding catastrophes, higher current year claim severity
and increases in the cost of catastrophe reinsurance. Current year claim severity expectations continue to be consistent with relevant indices. For further discussion and
quantification of the impact of reserve estimates and assumptions, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves sections of the MD A.   

Allstate
Protection generated underwriting income of $4.64 billion during 2006 compared to an underwriting loss of $461 million in 2005. The improvement was due to lower
catastrophe losses, increased premiums earned, declines in auto and homeowners claim frequency excluding catastrophes and higher favorable reserve reestimates related to prior years including
$223 million of favorable development relating to catastrophe losses, partially offset by the higher cost of the catastrophe reinsurance program and increased current year severity.   

  62  

Loss
ratios are a measure of profitability. Loss ratios by product, and expense and combined ratios by brand, are shown in the following table. These ratios are defined on
page 51.   

Standard auto loss ratio    increased 4.3 points for the Allstate brand in 2007 compared to 2006 due
to lower favorable reserve reestimates related to prior years, and higher claim frequency and claim severity excluding catastrophes, partially offset by higher premiums earned. Standard auto loss
ratio for the Encompass brand increased 4.2 points in 2007 compared to 2006 due to lower favorable reserve reestimates related to prior years. Standard auto loss ratio decreased 4.2 points for the
Allstate brand and 6.9 points for the Encompass brand in 2006 compared to 2005 due to lower catastrophes, higher premiums earned in the Allstate brand, lower claim frequency excluding catastrophes and
favorable reserve reestimates related to prior years, partially offset by higher current year claim severity.   

             Non-standard auto loss ratio    decreased 1.2 points for the Allstate brand in 2007 compared to 2006 due to favorable reserve
reestimates related to prior years. Non-standard auto loss ratio for the Encompass brand decreased 1.5 points in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily driven by lower claim frequency.
Non-standard auto loss ratio decreased 1.7 points for the Allstate brand in 2006 compared to 2005 due to lower catastrophes, lower claim frequency and favorable reserve reestimates related
to prior years, partially offset by higher current year claim severity and lower premiums earned. Non-standard auto loss ratio for the Encompass brand increased 9.3 points in 2006 compared
to 2005 due to higher current year claim severity, lower premiums earned, and higher catastrophes, partially offset by lower claim frequency excluding catastrophes.   

  63  

Homeowners loss ratio    for the Allstate brand increased 16.1 points in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher catastrophe losses, the absence
of favorable non-catastrophe reserve reestimates related to prior years, higher claim severity, higher ceded earned premium for catastrophe reinsurance, and higher claim frequency
excluding catastrophes. Homeowners loss ratio for the Encompass brand decreased 4.0 points in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to lower catastrophe losses. Homeowners loss ratio decreased 60.3
points for the Allstate brand and 19.2 points for the Encompass brand in 2006 compared to 2005 due to lower catastrophes, higher premiums earned, lower claim frequency excluding catastrophes, and
higher favorable Allstate brand reserve reestimates related to prior years, partially offset by higher current year claim severity and higher ceded earned premium for catastrophe reinsurance.   

Expense ratio    for Allstate Protection decreased 0.1 points in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to lower restructuring charges offset by
increased spending on advertising and investments in marketing and technology for product and service innovations. In 2006, the ratio increased 1.0 points when compared to 2005 primarily due to
increased restructuring and related charges due to a Voluntary Termination Offer ("VTO"), increased employee benefits and incentives, increased marketing and the impact of higher ceded premiums for
catastrophe reinsurance. For a more detailed discussion of the 2006 restructuring charges, see Note 12 of the consolidated financial statements.   

The
impact of specific costs and expenses on the expense ratio is included in the following table.   

The expense ratio for the standard auto and homeowners businesses generally approximates the total Allstate Protection expense ratio of 24.9 in
2007, 25.0 in 2006 and 24.0 in 2005. The expense ratio for the non-standard auto business generally is lower than the total Allstate Protection expense ratio due to lower agent commission
rates and higher average premiums for non-standard auto as compared to standard auto. The Encompass brand DAC amortization is higher on average than Allstate brand DAC amortization due to
higher commission rates.   

           DAC       We establish a DAC asset for costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring business, principally agents'
remuneration, premium taxes, certain underwriting costs and direct mail solicitation expenses. For the Allstate Protection business, DAC is amortized to income over the period in which premiums are
earned.   

          The
balance of DAC for each product type at December 31, is included in the following table.   

64  

Catastrophe Management     

           Historical Catastrophe Experience         Since the beginning of 1992, the average annual impact of catastrophes on our
Property-Liability loss ratio was 7.1 points. However, this average does not reflect the impact of some of the more significant actions we have taken to limit our catastrophe exposure. Consequently,
we think it is useful to consider the impact of catastrophes after excluding losses that are now partially or substantially covered by the California Earthquake Authority ("CEA"), Florida Hurricane
Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF") or placed with a third party, such as hurricane coverage in Hawaii. The average annual impact of all catastrophes, excluding losses from Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki and
losses from California earthquakes, on our Property-Liability loss ratio was 5.8 points since the beginning of 1992.   

Comparatively,
the average annual impact of catastrophes on the homeowners loss ratio for the years 1992 through 2007 is shown in the following table.   

Over time we have limited our aggregate insurance exposure to catastrophe losses in certain regions of the country that are subject to high levels
of natural catastrophes. Limitations include our participation in various state facilities, such as the CEA, which provides insurance for California earthquake losses; the FHCF, which provides
reimbursements on certain qualifying Florida hurricane losses; and other state facilities, such as wind pools. However, the impact of these actions may be diminished by the growth in insured values,
the effect of state insurance laws and regulations and by the effect of competitive considerations. In addition, in various states we are required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance
facilities and joint underwriting associations that provide insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because of our
participation in these and other state facilities such as wind pools, we may be exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities and/or to assessments from these facilities.   

          Actions
we have taken or are considering to maintain an acceptable catastrophe exposure level in our property business include:   

purchasing
reinsurance or engaging in other forms of risk transfer arrangements;
           limitations
on new business writings;
           not
offering continuing coverage to some existing policyholders;
           withdrawing
from certain geographic markets;
           changes
in rates, deductibles and coverage;
           changes
to underwriting requirements, including limitations in coastal and adjacent counties;
           discontinuing
coverage for certain types of residences; and/or    
 
  65  

removing
wind coverage from certain policies and allowing our agencies to help customers apply for wind coverage through state facilities such as wind pools.    

Hurricanes     

          We consider the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to generally be major metropolitan centers in counties along the eastern and gulf
coasts of the United States. Generally, the average premium on a property policy near these coasts is greater than other areas. However, average premiums are not considered commensurate with the
inherent risk of loss.   

          We
have addressed our risk of hurricane loss by, among other actions, purchasing reinsurance for specific states and on a countrywide basis for our personal lines property insurance in
areas most exposed to hurricanes (for further information on our reinsurance program see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD  limiting personal homeowners
new business writings in coastal areas in southern and eastern states; not offering continuing coverage on certain policies in coastal counties in certain states; and entering into Royal Palm 1 and
Royal Palm 2. Our actions are expected to continue during 2008 in northeastern and certain other hurricane prone states.   

   Earthquakes     

          During 2006, we began taking actions countrywide to significantly reduce our exposure to the risk of earthquake losses. These actions included purchasing
reinsurance on a countrywide basis and in the state of Kentucky; no longer offering new optional earthquake coverage in most states; removing optional earthquake coverage upon renewal in most states;
and entering into arrangements in many states to make earthquake coverage available through other insurers for new and renewal business.   

          Allstate's
premiums written attributable to optional earthquake coverage totaled approximately $3 million in 2007 compared to $33 million in 2006. Additional reductions in
policies in force are anticipated in 2008. Upon completion of these actions, we expect to retain only approximately 40,000 policies in force due to regulatory and other reasons. We also will continue
to have exposure to earthquake risk on certain policies and coverages that do not specifically exclude coverage for earthquake losses, including our auto policies, and to fires following earthquakes.
Allstate policyholders in the state of California are offered coverage through the CEA, a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake damage.
Allstate is subject to assessments from the CEA under certain circumstances as explained in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

   Fires Following Earthquakes     

          Actions taken related to our risk of loss from fires following earthquakes include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in California and purchasing
additional reinsurance on a countrywide basis excluding Florida and on a statewide basis in California and Kentucky.   

   Wildfires     

          Actions we are taking to reduce our risk of loss from wildfires include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in certain states and including California
wildfire losses in our 2008 aggregate excess reinsurance agreement. Catastrophe losses related to the Southern California wildfires that occurred during October 2007 totaled $318 million.   

  66  

Allstate Protection Outlook     

Allstate
Protection premiums written in 2008 are anticipated to be slightly higher than 2007 levels. We expect continued growth of Allstate brand standard auto premiums
written due to increased PIF resulting from improved agency effectiveness and further optimization in our advertising and higher average premium, partially offset by the impact of competition and the
estimated effects of catastrophe management actions on homeowners and other property premiums.
           We
will continue the introduction of our innovative products and services. Allstate Blue is anticipated to contribute positively to the non-standard written
premium trends and our presence in the non-standard market. Encompass Edge is expected to contribute to the Encompass growth trends.
           Loss
costs are expected to increase faster than average premiums.
           We
expect that volatility in the level of catastrophes we experience will contribute to variation in our underwriting results; however, this volatility will be somewhat
mitigated due to our catastrophe management actions, including purchases of reinsurance.
           We
plan to continue to study the efficiencies of our operations and cost structure for additional areas where costs may be reduced. Any reductions in costs we achieve,
however, may be offset by the costs of other new initiatives, such as expenditures for marketing and technology. We expect advertising expense in 2008 to be comparable to 2007.    

DISCONTINUED LINES AND COVERAGES SEGMENT     

           Overview       The Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and
results for certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is reported in this segment. We have assigned
management of this segment to a designated group of professionals with expertise in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification and reinsurance collection. As part of its
responsibilities, this group is also regularly engaged in policy buybacks, settlements and reinsurance assumed and ceded commutations.   

          Summarized
underwriting results for the years ended December 31, are presented in the following table.   

Underwriting loss of $54 million in 2007 primarily related to a $63 million reestimate of environmental reserves and a
$6 million reestimate of asbestos reserves as a result of the annual third quarter 2007 ground up reserve review, partially offset by a $46 million reduction in the reinsurance
recoverable valuation allowance related to Equitas Limited's improved financial position as a result of its reinsurance coverage with National Indemnity Company. The cost of administering claims
settlements totaled $14 million, $19 million and $18 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

Underwriting
loss of $139 million in 2006 primarily related to an $86 million reestimate of asbestos reserves, a $10 million reestimate of environmental reserves and
a $26 million increase in the allowance for future uncollectible reinsurance recoverables.   

  67  

During 2005, the underwriting loss was primarily due to reestimates of asbestos reserves totaling $139 million.   

          See
the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A for a more detailed discussion.   

   Discontinued Lines and Coverages Outlook     

We
may continue to experience asbestos losses in the future. These losses could be due to the potential adverse impact of new information relating to new and additional
claims or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as litigation or legislative, judicial and regulatory actions. Because of our annual "ground up" review, we
believe that our reserves are appropriately established based on available information, technology, laws and regulations.
           We
continue to be encouraged that the pace of industry asbestos claim activity has slowed, perhaps reflecting various state legislative and judicial actions with respect to
medical criteria and increased legal scrutiny of the legitimacy of claims.    

PROPERTY-LIABILITY INVESTMENT RESULTS     

             Net investment income    increased 6.4% in 2007 when compared to 2006, after increasing 3.5% in 2006 when compared to
2005. The 2007 increase was principally due to increased partnership income and
increased portfolio yields. The 2006 increase was due to higher income from partnerships and higher fixed income portfolio balances.   

          The
following table presents the average pretax investment yields for the year ended December 31.   

(1)    Pretax
yield is calculated as investment income (including dividend income in the case of equity securities) divided by the average of the investment balances at the beginning and end
of period and interim quarters.
      (2)    Amortized
cost basis is used to calculate the average investment balance for fixed income securities and mortgage loans. Cost is used for equity securities. Cost or the equity method
of accounting basis is used for limited partnership interests.
      (3)    To
conform to current period presentation, prior periods have been reclassified    
  68  

Net realized capital gains and losses, after-tax    were $915 million in 2007
compared to $227 million in 2006 and $339 million in 2005. The following table presents the factors driving the net realized capital gains and losses results.   

For a further discussion of net realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of the MD A.   

   Property-Liability Investment Outlook     

Increased
levels of dividends paid by Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC") to The Allstate Corporation in 2007, combined with a similar level of dividends anticipated in 2008,
may lead to a decline in portfolio balances and investment income.    

PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE RESERVES     

          Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of property-liability claims and claims expense reserves. For a description of
our reserve process, see Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements and for a further description of our reserving policies and the potential variability in our reserve estimates, see the
Application of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD A. These
reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR claims, as of the reporting date.   

The
facts and circumstances leading to our quarterly reestimates of reserves relate to revisions to the development factors used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end
of a reporting period until all claims have been paid. Reestimates occur because actual losses are likely different than that predicted by the estimated development factors used in prior reserve
estimates. At December 31, 2007, the impact of a reserve reestimation corresponding to a one percent increase or decrease in net reserves would be a decrease or increase of approximately
$108 million in net income.   

          The
table below shows total net reserves as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 for Allstate brand, Encompass brand and Discontinued Lines and Coverages lines of business.   

69  

The table below shows reserves, net of reinsurance, representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at the beginning
of years 2007, 2006 and 2005, and the effect of reestimates in each year.   

(1)    Favorable
reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.    

   Allstate Protection     

          The table below shows Allstate Protection net reserves representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at the beginning of years 2007,
2006 and 2005, and the effect of reestimates in each year.   

Auto reserve reestimates in 2007 were primarily the result of auto severity development that was better than expected. Auto reserve reestimates in
2006 and 2005 were primarily the result of auto injury severity development that was better than expected and late reported loss development that was better than expected, primarily due to lower
frequency trends in recent years.   

          Unfavorable
homeowners reserve reestimates in 2007 were primarily due to catastrophe reserve reestimates attributable to increased claim expense reserves primarily for 2005 events and
increased loss reserves including reopened claims arising from litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane Katrina.   

  70  

Homeowners
reserve reestimates in 2006 were primarily due to favorable catastrophe reestimates attributable to lower loss estimates for additional living expenses and mold for Hurricane
Katrina, late reported loss development that was better than expected and injury severity development that was better than expected.   

Unfavorable
homeowner reserve reestimates in 2005 were primarily due to severity development that was greater than expected. In 2005, reestimates included $66 million related to
2004 hurricanes of which $31 million was the Florida Citizens assessment that was accruable in 2005. These were offset primarily by late reported loss development that was better than expected.   

          Other
personal lines reserve reestimates in 2007 and 2005 were primarily the result of claim severity development different than anticipated in previous estimates. Other personal lines
reserve reestimates in 2006 were primarily due to favorable catastrophe reestimates and the result of claim severity development different than anticipated in previous estimates.   

Pending,
new and closed claims for Allstate Protection, for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

We believe the net loss reserves for Allstate Protection exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and
regulations.   

  71  

The following tables reflect the accident years to which the reestimates shown above are applicable for Allstate brand, Encompass brand and Discontinued Lines and Coverages lines of
business. Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in these tables in parentheses.   

   2007 Prior year reserve reestimates     

2006 Prior year reserve reestimates     

2005 Prior year reserve reestimates     

Allstate brand    experienced $167 million, $1.09 billion and $613 million of
favorable prior year reserve reestimates in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2007, this was primarily due to auto severity development that was better than expected, partially offset by
unfavorable reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses. In 2006 and 2005, this was primarily due to auto injury severity development and late reported loss development that was better than expected and
changes in reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses which were favorable in 2006 and unfavorable in 2005.   

These
trends are primarily responsible for revisions to loss development factors, as previously described, used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end of a reporting
period until all claims have been paid. Because these trends cause actual losses to differ from those predicted by the   

  72  

estimated
development factors used in prior reserve estimates, reserves are revised as actuarial studies validate new trends based on the indications of updated development factor calculations.   

The
impact of these reestimates on the Allstate brand underwriting income (loss) is shown in the table below.   

Encompass brand    Reserve reestimates in 2007, 2006 and 2005 were related to lower than anticipated
claim settlement costs.   

          The
impact of these reestimates on the Encompass brand underwriting income (loss) is shown in the table below.   

Discontinued Lines and Coverages       We conduct an annual review in the third quarter of each year to evaluate
and establish asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines reserves. Reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best
practices and assuming no change in the regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive "ground up" methodology determines reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of
exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by policyholders.   

Reserve
reestimates for the Discontinued Lines and Coverages, as shown in the table below, were increased primarily for environmental in 2007 and for asbestos in 2006 and 2005.   

Reserve additions for asbestos in 2007, 2006 and 2005, totaling $17 million, $86 million and $139 million, respectively, were
primarily for products-related coverage. They were essentially a result of a continuing level of increased claim activity being reported by excess and primary insurance policyholders with existing
active claims, excess policyholders with new claims, and reestimates of liabilities for   

  73  

increased
assumed reinsurance cessions, as ceding companies (other insurance carriers) also experienced increased claim activity. Increased claim activity over prior estimates has also resulted in an
increased estimate for future claims reported. These trends are consistent with the trends of other carriers in the industry, which we believe are related to increased publicity and awareness of
coverage, ongoing litigation and bankruptcy actions. The 2007 asbestos reserve addition also includes the write-off of uncollectible reinsurance for a single foreign reinsurer.   

          The
reserve additions for environmental in 2007 were for increased claim activity related to site-specific remediations where the clean-up cost estimates and
responsibility for the clean-up have been more fully determined. This increased claim activity over prior estimates has also resulted in an increased estimate for future claims reported.
IBNR now represents 55% of total net environmental reserves, 3 points higher than at December 31, 2006.   

          The
table below summarizes reserves and claim activity for asbestos and environmental claims before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of reinsurance for the past three years.   

The survival ratio is calculated by taking our ending reserves divided by payments made during the year. This is a commonly used but extremely
simplistic and imprecise approach to measuring the adequacy of asbestos and environmental reserve levels. Many factors, such as mix of business, level of coverage provided and settlement procedures
have significant impacts on the amount of environmental and asbestos claims and claims expense reserves, claim payments and the resultant ratio. As payments result in corresponding reserve reductions,
survival ratios can be expected to vary over time.   

  74  

In
2007, the asbestos survival ratio declined due to continuing claim payments. In 2006, the asbestos survival ratios improved due to reserve additions and a reduced level of claim
payments. In 2007, the environmental survival ratios improved due to reserve additions.   

          Our
net asbestos reserves by type of exposure are shown in the following table.   

During the last three years, 94 direct primary and excess policyholders reported new claims, and claims of 78 policyholders were closed,
increasing the number of active policyholders by 16 during the period. The 16 increase comprised 3 from 2007, 8 from 2006 and 5 from 2005. The increase of 3 from 2007 included 26 new policyholders
reporting new claims and the closing of 23 policyholders' claims.   

          IBNR
net reserves decreased by $102 million. At December 31, 2007 IBNR represented 65% of total net asbestos reserves, 3 points lower than at December 31, 2006. IBNR
provides for reserve development of known claims and future reporting of additional unknown claims from current and new policyholders and ceding companies.   

          Pending,
new, total closed and closed without payment claims for asbestos and environmental exposures for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

75  

Property-Liability Reinsurance Ceded       For Allstate Protection, we utilize reinsurance to reduce exposure to
catastrophe risk and manage capital, and to support the required statutory surplus and the insurance financial strength ratings of certain subsidiaries such as Allstate Floridian Insurance Company
("AFIC") and Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company. We purchase significant reinsurance where we believe the greatest benefit may be achieved relative to our aggregate countrywide exposure. The price
and terms of reinsurance and the credit quality of the reinsurer are considered in the purchase process, along with whether the price can be appropriately reflected in the costs that are considered in
setting future rates charged to policyholders. We also participate in various reinsurance mechanisms, including industry pools and facilities, which are backed by the financial resources of the
property-liability insurance company market participants, and have historically purchased reinsurance to mitigate long-tail liability lines, including environmental, asbestos and other
discontinued lines exposures. We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all risks ceded to reinsurers.   

The
impacts of reinsurance on our reserve for claims and claims expense at December 31 are summarized in the following table, net of allowances we have established for
uncollectible amounts.   

Reinsurance recoverables include an estimate of the amount of property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves that may be ceded
under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, including incurred but not reported unpaid losses. We calculate our ceded reinsurance estimate based on the terms of each applicable reinsurance
agreement, including an estimate of how IBNR losses will ultimately be ceded under the agreement. We also consider other limitations and coverage exclusions under our reinsurance agreements.
Accordingly, our estimate of reinsurance recoverables is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as our estimate of reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense. We believe the
recoverables are appropriately established; however, as our underlying reserves continue to develop, the amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts currently recorded. We regularly evaluate
the reinsurers and the respective amounts recoverable, and a provision for uncollectible reinsurance is recorded if needed. The establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for
uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. Changes in estimates could result in additional changes to the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.   

          The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance relates to Discontinued Lines and Coverages reinsurance recoverables and was $185 million and $235 million at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts represent 16.4% and 20.5%, respectively of the related reinsurance recoverable balances. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review
of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, and other relevant factors. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may become involved in
coverage disputes with certain of our reinsurers which may ultimately result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against such reinsurers to determine the parties' rights and obligations under
the various reinsurance agreements. We employ dedicated specialists   

  76  

to
manage reinsurance collections and disputes. We also consider recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and cedants, and recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in
disputes between cedants and reinsurers in seeking to maximize our reinsurance recoveries. For further discussion on the decrease in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, see Note 9 of
the consolidated financial statements.   

          Adverse
developments in the insurance industry have led to a decline in the financial strength of some of our reinsurance carriers, causing amounts recoverable from them and future
claims ceded to them to be considered a higher risk. There has also been consolidation activity in the industry, which causes reinsurance risk across the industry to be concentrated among fewer
companies. In addition, over the last several years the industry has increasingly segregated asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities with dedicated
capital. Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions. We are unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectibility of reinsurance
recoverables in the future.   

          The
largest reinsurance recoverable balances are shown in the following table at December 31, net of allowances we have established for uncollectible amounts.   

77  

The effects of reinsurance ceded on our property-liability premiums earned and claims and claims expense for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, ceded property-liability premiums earned increased $243 million and
$527 million, respectively, when compared to prior years, as a result of amounts incurred for catastrophe reinsurance when compared to the prior year.   

          Ceded
property-liability claims and claims expense decreased in 2007 as a result of lower qualifying losses eligible to be ceded to the FHCF, but higher losses eligible to be ceded to
NFIP and MCCA. Ceded property-liability claims and claims expense for asbestos and environmental and other claims were primarily the result of reserve reestimates. Ceded property-liability claims and
claims expense decreased in 2006 primarily as a result of lower qualifying losses eligible to be ceded to the FHCF, NFIP and the MCCA. For further discussion see the Discontinued Lines and Coverages
Segment and Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves sections of the MD A.   

          For
a detailed description of the MCCA, FHCF and Lloyd's, see Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2007, other than the recoverable balances
listed above, no other amount due or estimated to be due from any single Property-Liability reinsurer was in excess of $20 million.   

          Allstate
sells and administers policies as a participant in the NFIP. Ceded premiums earned include $257 million, $232 million and $199 million, in 2007, 2006, and
2005, respectively, and ceded losses incurred include $65 million, $32 million and $3.30 billion, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, for this program. Under the arrangement,
the Federal Government is obligated to pay all claims. The NFIP has no impact on our net income or financial position and is included net of ceded premiums and losses with our other personal lines
business in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We receive expense allowances from NFIP as reimbursement for underwriting administration, commission, claims management and adjuster fees. These
policies are not included in any of our core business statistics such as PIF, loss ratio, or catastrophe losses.   

          We
enter into certain inter-company insurance and reinsurance transactions for the Property-Liability operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among
various legal entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

          An
affiliate of the company, Allstate Texas Lloyd's ("ATL"), a syndicate insurance company, cedes 100% of its business net of reinsurance with external parties to AIC. At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, ATL   

  78  

had
$5 million and $58 million, respectively, of reinsurance recoverable primarily related to losses incurred from Hurricane Rita which occurred in 2005.   

   Catastrophe Reinsurance     

          Our personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to catastrophes nationwide.
Our program provides reinsurance protection to us for catastrophes including storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, wildfires, earthquakes and fires following earthquakes.   

          As
discussed below, our reinsurance program is comprised of agreements that provide coverage for the occurrence of certain qualifying catastrophes in specific states including New York,
New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Texas ("multi-peril"); additional coverage for hurricane catastrophe losses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut ("North-East") and in other
states along the southern and eastern coasts ("South-East"); in California for fires following earthquakes ("California fires following earthquakes"); in Kentucky for earthquakes and fires
following earthquakes ("Kentucky"); and four agreements for our exposure in Florida. The Florida component of the reinsurance program, which expires on May 31, 2008, is designed separately from
the other components of the program to address the distinct needs of our separately capitalized legal entities in that state. Another reinsurance agreement provides coverage nationwide, excluding
Florida, for the aggregate or sum of catastrophe losses in excess of an annual retention associated with storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, California wildfires, earthquakes and
fires following earthquakes ("aggregate excess"). For further discussion on catastrophe reinsurance, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.   

          During
January 2008 we completed the renewal of our multi-peril, South-East, California fires following earthquakes, Kentucky and aggregate excess agreements, all of which
will be effective June 1, 2008. The North-East agreement was placed in June 2007 and is effective June 15, 2007 to June 8, 2010. While the South-East
agreement is for one-year expiring May 31, 2009, the multi-peril and California fires following earthquakes agreements have been placed as one, two and three year contracts, each
providing one-third of the total limits and expiring as of May 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. We have the right to cancel the two and three year contracts upon timely notice
on the first and second anniversary dates. The Kentucky agreement has been placed as a three year term contract. This contract can be canceled on the first anniversary date. The aggregate excess
agreement comprises three contracts: one contract expiring on May 31, 2009 and two contracts expiring on May 31, 2010. We designed this layered approach to placing our reinsurance
coverage to lessen the amount of reinsurance being placed in the market in any one year. We also expect
to place contracts for the state of Florida later this year, once the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund's plans are known, and to have them effective for the hurricane season beginning on
June 1, 2008.   

          The
multi-peril agreements have various retentions and limits commensurate with the amount of catastrophe risk, measured on an annual basis, in each covered state. The multi-peril
agreement for Connecticut and Rhode Island provides that losses resulting from the same occurrence but taking place in both states may be combined to meet the agreement's per occurrence retention and
limit. A description of these retentions and limits appears in the following tables and charts. One-third of the coverage expires each year with each of the three contracts in this
agreement.   

          The
North-East agreement was placed with a Cayman Island insurance company, Willow Re Ltd., that had completed an offering to unrelated investors for principal at
risk, variable market rate notes of $250 million to collateralize hurricane catastrophe losses covered by this agreement. Amounts payable under the reinsurance agreement will be based on an
index created by applying predetermined percentages representing our market share, to insured personal property and auto industry losses in the   

  79  

covered
area as reported by Property Claim Services ("PCS"), a division of Insurance Services Offices, Inc., limited to our actual losses. The North-East agreement provides that
losses arising from the same occurrence but taking place in the three states may be combined to meet the agreement's per occurrence retention and limit.   

          The
Florida reinsurance program that is expected to be effective June 1, 2008 will replace the current program and should be similar in design, assuming there is no further change
in Florida insurance laws, however with lower retentions and limits as our exposures have been reduced. Our current program comprises, four separate agreements, entered into by Allstate Floridian for
personal property excess catastrophe losses in Florida, effective June 1, 2007 for one year. These agreements coordinate coverage with the FHCF, including our elected participation in the
optional temporary increase in coverage limit ("TICL"), (collectively "FHCF"). The four agreements are listed and described below.   

FHCF
Retention provides coverage on $120 million of losses in excess of $50 million and is 80% placed, with one reinstatement of limit.
           FHCF
Sliver provides coverage on 10% co-participation of the FHCF payout, or $87 million and is 100% placed, with one reinstatement of limit.
           FHCF
Back-up provides coverage after the FHCF reimbursement protection is utilized on $905 million of losses in excess of $172 million
and is 90% placed.
           FHCF
Excess provides coverage on $739 million of losses in excess of the FHCF Retention and the FHCF Back-up agreements and is 100% placed,
with one reinstatement of limit.    

The
FHCF provides 90% reimbursement on qualifying Allstate Floridian property losses up to an estimated maximum of $905 million in excess of a retention of $172 million,
including reimbursement of eligible loss adjustment expenses at 5%, for each of the two largest hurricanes and $57 million for all other hurricanes for the season beginning June 1, 2007.
Recoveries from the FHCF on policies included in our reinsurance agreements with Universal Insurance Company and Royal Palm, respectively, are ceded to those companies in proportion to total losses
qualifying for recovery. In addition, certain recoveries from our four Florida reinsurance agreements attributable to policies reinsured under our reinsurance agreement with Royal Palm are remitted to
Royal Palm in proportion to total losses qualifying for recovery.   

          We
have approximately $200 million or 10% of the aggregate excess agreement limits for the June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009 period, $25 million or 5% of the
South-East agreement limit, $250 million or 100% of the North-East agreement limit and $203 million or 11% of the Florida component placed with alternative market
sources. Alternative market sources refers to a reinsurer that hedge funds, private equity firms, or investment banks substantially or wholly support; retrocedes 100% of its assumed liability to a
specific retrocessionaire; provides collateral to us equal to its assumed per occurrence limit; or funding is provided by an unrelated third party issuance of bonds financing the reinsurance limit
("catastrophe bond").   

          We
estimate that the total annualized cost of all catastrophe reinsurance programs for the year beginning June 1, 2008 will be approximately $660 million per year or
$165 million per quarter, including an estimate for reinsurance coverage in Florida. This is compared to approximately $900 million per year for our total annualized cost for the year
beginning June 1, 2007, or an estimated annualized cost decrease of $240 million beginning June 1, 2008. The estimated decrease is due in part to our reduced exposure in Florida
following our non-renewal activities over the past year. The total cost of our reinsurance programs during 2007 was $216 million in the first quarter, $231 million in the
second quarter, $227 million in the third quarter and $222 million in the fourth quarter. The cost during 2008 is estimated to be $225 million in the first quarter of 2008,
$205 million in the second quarter and   

  80  

$165 million
in the third and fourth quarters. We continue to attempt to capture our reinsurance cost in premium rates as allowed by state regulatory authorities. We are currently involved in
proceedings regarding homeowners insurance rates and our ability to capture these reinsurance costs in various states including California, Florida and Texas.   

Since
the financial condition of the reinsurer is a critical deciding factor when entering into an agreement, the reinsurance agreements have been placed in the global reinsurance market
with all limits on our Florida program and the majority of limits on our other programs placed with reinsurers who currently have an A.M. Best insurance financial strength rating of A or
better. The remaining limits are placed with reinsurers who currently have an A.M. Best insurance financial strength rating no lower than A-, with three exceptions. One of the
exceptions has a Standard   Poor's ("S P") rating of AA, one has a rating of AA- and we have collateral for the entire contract limit exposure for the reinsurer which is not rated
by either rating agency. Because of these factors, we do not expect that our ability to cede losses in the future will be impaired.   

The
terms, retentions and limits for Allstate's catastrophe management reinsurance agreements in place as of June 1, 2008 are listed in the following tables.   

(1)    Aggregate
excess This agreement has a contract, effective 6/1/2007 to 5/31/2009, and two contracts, effective 6/1/2008 to 5/31/2010. It covers the aggregation of
qualifying losses for storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, fires following earthquakes, and California wildfires, in the two year contracts, or earthquakes, in the one year
contract, for Allstate Protection personal lines auto and property business countrywide, except for Florida, in excess of $2 billion in aggregated losses per contract year. Losses recoverable
if any, from our California fires following earthquakes, multi-peril, North-East,    
  81  

South-East
and Kentucky agreements are excluded when determining coverage under this agreement. Losses on the North-East agreement do not inure under the one year contract. The
one year contract is 47.5% placed or $950 million of the total $2 billion limit. The two year term contracts are collectively 47.5% placed or $950 million of the total
$2 billion limit leaving Allstate the option to place up to an additional 47.5% in year two. The preliminary reinsurance premium is subject to redetermination for exposure changes.   

(2)    California
fires following earthquakes This agreement has one year, two year and three year contracts that are effective 6/1/2008 and expiring 5/31/2009, 2010 and 2011,
respectively. This agreement covers Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses in California for fires following earthquakes. The preliminary retention and reinsurance premium are
subject to redetermination for exposure changes at each anniversary, except for the one year contract in which the retention is not subject to adjustment.
      (3)    Multi-peril These
agreements have one year, two year and three year contracts that are effective 6/1/2008 and expiring 5/31/2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. These
agreements cover the Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses. The preliminary retention and reinsurance premium are subject to redetermination for exposure changes at each
anniversary, except for the one year contract in which the retention is not subject to adjustment.
      (4)    The
Texas agreement is with ATL, a syndicate insurance company. ATL also has a 100% reinsurance agreement with AIC covering losses in excess of and/or not reinsured by the Texas
agreement.
      (5)    South-East This
agreement is effective 6/1/2008 for 1 year and covers Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses for storms named
or numbered by the National Weather Service. This agreement covers personal property business in the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia,
Maryland, Delaware and Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia. The preliminary reinsurance premium is subject to redetermination for exposure changes.
      (6)    Kentucky This
agreement is effective 6/1/2008 for three years and covers Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses for earthquakes and fires
following earthquakes. This agreement provides three limits over three years subject to two limits being available in any one contract year.
      (7)    North-East This
agreement is effective 6/15/2007 to 6/8/2010 and covers Allstate Protection personal property and auto excess catastrophe losses for
hurricanes. This agreement covers 34% of $745 million, our estimated share of estimated modified personal property industry catastrophe losses between $9.2 billion and
$13.5 billion, or 34% of our catastrophe losses between $1.6 billion (initial trigger) and $2.3 billion (exhaustion point) in the states of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
Qualifying losses under this agreement are also eligible to be ceded under the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut and Rhode Island multi-peril and the one-year aggregate excess contract
effective 6/1/2007 to 5/31/2009.    
  82  

Allstate Floridian (program expiring May 31, 2008)     

(1)    FHCF
Retention provides coverage beginning 6/1/2007 for 1 year covering personal property excess catastrophe losses on policies written by Allstate Floridian,
including policies remaining in force with Allstate Floridian and ceded to Royal Palm. The preliminary reinsurance premium is subject to redetermination for exposure changes.
      (2)    FHCF
(Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund) provides 90% reimbursement on qualifying personal property losses up to a maximum per hurricane season, including policies
remaining in force and underwritten by Allstate Floridian Insurance Company and Allstate Floridian Indemnity Company and ceded to Universal and Royal Palm. Limits and retentions are calculated for
Allstate Floridian Insurance Company and each of its subsidiaries independently, and are subject to annual remeasurements based on 6/30 exposure data. As of 12/31/2007, the limits are
$687 million for Allstate Floridian Insurance Company, $143 million for Allstate Floridian Indemnity Company, $59 million for Encompass Floridian Insurance Company, and
$16 million for Encompass Floridian Indemnity Company for a total of $905 million. Retentions for each of the Floridian companies are $131 million for Allstate Floridian Insurance
Company, $27 million for Allstate Floridian Indemnity Company, $11 million for Encompass Floridian Insurance Company, and $3 million for Encompass Floridian Indemnity Company for
a total of $172 million.
      (3)    FHCF
Sliver provides coverage beginning 6/1/2007 for 1 year covering primarily excess catastrophe losses not reimbursed by the FHCF. The provisional retention is
$172 million and is subject to adjustment upward or downward to an actual retention that will equal the FHCF retention as respects business covered by this contract, including policies
remaining in force with Allstate Floridian and ceded to Royal Palm. The preliminary reinsurance premium is subject to redetermination for exposure changes.
      (4)    FHCF
Back-up provides coverage beginning 6/1/2007 for 1 year covering personal property excess catastrophe losses and is contiguous to the FHCF payout.
Coverage includes all in force policies. Recoveries, with certain limitations, are shared with Royal Palm in proportion to total losses qualifying for recovery. As the FHCF capacity is paid out, the
retention on this agreement automatically adjusts to mirror the amount of the payout. The preliminary reinsurance premium is subject to redetermination for exposure changes.
      (5)    FHCF
Excess provides coverage beginning 6/1/2007 for 1 year covering excess catastrophe losses. Coverage includes all in force policies. Recoveries, with certain
limitations, are shared with Royal Palm in proportion to total losses qualifying for recovery. The retention on this agreement is designed to attach above and contiguous to the FHCF and FHCF
Back-up. As the FHCF and the FHCF Back-up are paid out, the retention automatically adjusts to mirror the amount of the payout. The preliminary reinsurance premium is subject
to redetermination for exposure changes.    
  83  

Highlights of certain other contract terms and conditions for all of Allstate's catastrophe management reinsurance agreements effective
June 1, 2008 are listed in the following table.   

South-East    
     
   Aggregate Excess    
     
   Multi-peril, California 
fires following 
earthquakes and Kentucky    
     
   North-East    
     
   Allstate 
Floridian (1)     

Business Reinsured  
     
  Personal Lines 
Property business  
     
  Personal Lines 
Property and Auto business  
     
  Personal Lines 
Property business  
     
  Personal Lines 
Property and 
Auto business  
     
  Personal Lines 
Property business  

Location(s)  

10 states and 
Washington, DC  

Nationwide except Florida  

Each specific state 
     
Multi-peril states include 
New York, New Jersey, Texas, Connecticut and Rhode Island  

New York, 
New Jersey and Connecticut  

Florida  

Covered Losses  

1 specific peril storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service  

3 specific perils storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, fires following earthquakes, and California wildfires in the two year contracts or earthquakes in the one year contract  

Multi-peril includes hurricanes and earthquakes 
California fires following earthquakes: 1 specific peril fires following earthquakes 
Kentucky earthquakes and fires following earthquakes  

Hurricanes  

Multi-peril includes hurricanes and earthquakes  

Exclusions, other than typical market negotiated exclusions  

Automobile 
Terrorism 
Commercial  

Assessment exposure to 
CEA 
Terrorism 
Commercial  

Automobile 
Terrorism 
Commercial  

Terrorism 
Commercial  

Automobile 
Terrorism 
Commercial  

Loss Occurrence  

Sum of all qualifying losses from named or numbered storms 
by the National Weather Service over 96 hours  

Sum of all qualifying losses and sum of all qualifying occurrences (Aggregate) 
     
Losses over 96 hours from a named or numbered storm 
     
Losses over 168 hours for an earthquake 
     
Losses over 168 hours within a 336 hour period for fires following an earthquake  

Multi-peril Sum of all qualifying earthquakes, fires following earthquakes and wildfire losses for a specific occurrence over 168 hours. Windstorm related occurrences over 96 hours. Riot related occurrences over 72 hours. 
     
California fires following earthquakes occurrences over 168 hours. 
     
Kentucky earthquake and fires following earthquake occurrences over 168 hours within a 336 hour period.  

Hurricane event our market share of PCS' estimated modified industry catastrophe losses  

Sum of all qualifying losses for specific occurrences over 168 hours 
    
Windstorm related occurrences over 96 hours 
    
Riot related occurrences over 72 hours  

Loss adjustment expenses included within ultimate net loss  

12.5% of qualifying losses  

12.5% of qualifying losses  

12.5% of qualifying losses  

12.5% of qualifying losses  

12.5% of qualifying losses  

(1)    Allstate
Floridian information relates to the FHCF Retention, FHCF, FHCF Sliver, FHCF Back-up and FHCF Excess agreements effective June 1, 2007 and expiring
May 31, 2008.    
  84  

ALLSTATE FINANCIAL 2007 HIGHLIGHTS     

Net
income was $465 million in 2007 compared to $464 million in 2006.
           Contractholder
fund deposits totaled $8.99 billion for 2007 compared to $10.48 billion for 2006.
           Net
investment income increased 3.0% in 2007 compared to 2006 despite a 2.2% decrease in investments as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006.
           Allstate
Financial paid dividends of $742 million in 2007. These dividends include $725 million paid by Allstate Life Insurance Company ("ALIC") to its parent
AIC.
           Effective
June 1, 2006, Allstate Financial disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance with Prudential Financial Inc.
("Prudential"). Additionally, Allstate Financial transferred its loan protection business to the Allstate Protection segment effective January 1, 2006. The following table presents the results
of operations attributable to our reinsured variable annuity business for the period of 2006 prior to the disposition and 2005. Additionally, 2005 also includes the results of operations of the loan
protection business transferred to Allstate Protection in 2006.    

(1)    For
2006, income from operations before income tax expense attributable to the variable annuity business reinsured to Prudential included an investment spread and benefit spread of
$(7) million and $13 million, respectively. For 2005, income from operations before income tax expense attributable to the variable annuity business reinsured to Prudential and the loan
protection business transferred to Allstate Protection included an investment spread and benefit spread of $(12) million and $5 million, respectively.    
  85  

ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT     

           Overview and Strategy       The Allstate Financial segment is a major provider of life insurance, retirement and investment
products, and voluntary accident and health insurance to individual and institutional customers. We serve these customers through Allstate exclusive agencies, the Workplace Division and
non-proprietary distribution channels. Allstate Financial's mission is to reinvent retirement and protection for the middle market consumer.   

          To
achieve its mission and reach its financial goals, Allstate Financial's primary objectives are to deepen financial services relationships with Allstate customers, dramatically expand
the workplace business and build consumer-driven innovation capabilities and culture. We will continue to drive scale through non-proprietary distribution channel relationships and
leverage future innovations across those channels. We will also enhance our operational excellence. In addition to focusing on higher return markets, products, and distribution channels, Allstate
Financial will improve its financial performance through capital efficiency and enterprise risk and return management capabilities and practices.   

          Allstate
Financial's strategy provides a platform designed to profitably grow its business. Based upon Allstate's strong financial position and brand, our customers look to us to help
meet their retirement and protection needs through trusted relationships. We have unique access to potential customers through cross-sell opportunities within the Allstate exclusive
agencies and employer relationships through our Workplace Division. Our investment expertise, strong operating platform and solid relationships with leading distribution partners provide a foundation
to deliver value to our customers and shareholders.   

          We
plan to continue offering a suite of products that provides financial protection primarily to middle market consumers and help them better prepare for retirement. Our products include
fixed annuities including deferred, immediate and indexed; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; voluntary accident and health insurance; and funding agreements backing
medium-term notes. Banking products and services are also offered to customers through the Allstate Bank. Our products are sold through several distribution channels including Allstate
exclusive agencies, which include exclusive financial specialists, independent agents (including master brokerage agencies and workplace enrolling agents), and financial service firms such as banks,
broker-dealers and specialized structured settlement brokers. Allstate Bank products can also be obtained directly through the Internet and a toll-free number. Our institutional product
line consists primarily of funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual investors.   

  86  

Summarized
financial data for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

Net Income    in 2007 was comparable to 2006 as lower losses associated with dispositions of
operations were almost entirely offset by a decline in total revenues. Net income increased 11.5% in 2006 compared to 2005, due to higher revenues, partially offset by higher total costs and expenses
and the recognition in 2006 of losses relating to the disposition of substantially all of our variable annuity business.   

           Analysis of Revenues       Total revenues decreased 1.5% or $90 million in 2007 compared to 2006, due to higher net realized
capital losses and lower premiums and contract charges, partially offset by higher net investment income. Total revenues increased 2.7% or $162 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher
net investment income partially offset by net realized capital losses in 2006 compared to net realized capital gains in 2005, and lower premiums and contract charges.   

           Life and annuity premiums and contract charges       Premiums represent revenues generated from traditional life insurance,
immediate annuities with life contingencies, accident and health and other insurance products that have significant mortality or morbidity risk. Contract charges are revenues generated from
interest-sensitive and variable life insurance, fixed annuities, institutional products and variable annuities for which deposits are classified as contractholder funds or separate accounts
liabilities. Contract charges are assessed against the contractholder account values for maintenance, administration, cost of insurance and surrender prior to contractually specified dates. As a
result, changes in contractholder funds are considered in the evaluation of growth and as indicators of future levels of revenues. Subsequent to the close of our reinsurance transaction with
Prudential effective June 1, 2006, variable annuity contract charges on the business subject to the transaction are fully reinsured to Prudential and presented net of reinsurance on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).   

  87  

The
following table summarizes life and annuity premiums and contract charges by product.   

(1)    Contract
charges for 2007, 2006 and 2005 include contract charges related to the cost of insurance totaling $652 million, $638 million and $631 million,
respectively.    

          Total premiums decreased 3.2% in 2007 compared to 2006 as higher sales of accident and health insurance products sold through the Allstate
Workplace Division and traditional life insurance products were more than offset by a decline in sales of life contingent immediate annuities due to market competitiveness.   

Total
premiums decreased 2.1% in 2006 compared to 2005. Excluding the impact of the transfer of the loan protection business to the Allstate Protection segment effective
January 1, 2006, premiums increased 11.7% in 2006 compared to 2005. This increase in 2006 was attributable primarily to increased premiums on immediate annuities with life contingencies, due to
certain pricing refinements and a more favorable pricing environment in 2006. Additionally, in 2006, excluding the impact of the transfer of the loan protection business, accident and health and other
premiums increased $14 million due to increased sales of these products.   

          Contract
charges decreased 6.5% in 2007 compared to 2006 due to the disposal of substantially all of our variable annuity business through reinsurance effective June 1, 2006.
Excluding contract charges on variable annuities, substantially all of which are reinsured to Prudential effective June 1, 2006, contract charges increased 7.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. This
increase reflects growth in interest-sensitive life insurance policies in force and, to a lesser extent, higher contract charges on fixed annuities. The increase in contract charges on fixed annuities
was mostly attributable to higher contract surrenders.   

          Contract
charges decreased 5.8% in 2006 compared to 2005. Excluding contract charges on variable annuities, contract charges increased 8.8% in 2006 compared to 2005. The increase was
mostly due to higher contract charges on interest-sensitive life products resulting from growth of business in force. Contract charges on fixed annuities were slightly higher in 2006 due to increased
surrender charges.   

             Contractholder funds    represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of individual and institutional products, such as
interest-sensitive life insurance, fixed annuities, funding agreements and bank deposits. The balance of contractholder funds is equal to the cumulative deposits received and interest credited to the
contractholder less cumulative contract maturities, benefits, surrenders, withdrawals and contract charges for mortality or administrative expenses.   

  88  

The following table shows the changes in contractholder funds.   

(1)    The
table above illustrates the changes in contractholder funds, which are presented gross of reinsurance recoverables on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The table
above is intended to supplement our discussion and analysis of revenues, which are presented net of reinsurance on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result, the net change in
contractholder funds associated with products reinsured to third parties is reflected as a component of the other adjustments line. This includes, but is not limited to, the net change in
contractholder funds associated with the reinsured variable annuity business subsequent to the effective date of our reinsurance agreements with Prudential (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements).    

          Contractholder funds decreased 0.1% in 2007 and increased 3.3% and 7.8% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Average contractholder funds increased
1.6% in 2007 compared to 2006, 5.5% in 2006 compared to 2005 and 13.1% in 2005 compared to 2004.   

          Contractholder
deposits decreased 14.2% in 2007 compared to 2006. This decline was primarily due to lower deposits on fixed annuities partially offset by higher deposits on funding
agreements. The decline of 39.5% in fixed annuity deposits in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to our strategy to raise new business returns for these products combined with lower
industry-wide fixed annuity sales. Deposits on institutional products increased 42.9% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales of our institutional products vary from period to period based on
management's assessment of market conditions.   

          Contractholder
deposits decreased 15.4% in 2006 compared to 2005 due to decreased deposits on funding agreements and, to a lesser extent, the classification of the net change in variable
annuity contractholder funds as "other adjustments" subsequent to the effective date of our reinsurance agreements with Prudential. These items were partially offset by higher fixed annuity deposits.
Allstate Financial prioritized the allocation of fixed income investments to support sales of retail products having the best opportunity for sustainable growth and return while maintaining a retail
market presence. Consequently, sales of institutional products varied from period to period. In 2006, deposits on institutional products declined 44.3% compared to 2005. Higher fixed annuity deposits
in 2006 were the result of a $546 million increase in deposits on Allstate  Treasury-Linked Annuity contracts. This increase   

  89  

was
partially offset by modest declines in deposits on traditional deferred annuities and market value adjusted annuities. These declines were in part impacted by our actions to improve new business
returns and reduced consumer demand. Consumer demand for fixed annuities is influenced by market interest rates on short-term deposit products and equity market conditions, which can
increase the relative attractiveness of competing investment alternatives.   

          Surrenders
and partial withdrawals decreased 1.2% in 2007 compared to 2006. This decline was due to lower surrenders and partial withdrawals on interest-sensitive life insurance policies
and the classification of the net change in variable annuity contractholder funds as "other adjustments" subsequent to the effective date of our reinsurance agreements with Prudential. These declines
were partially offset by an 11.2% increase in surrenders and partial withdrawals on fixed annuities. The surrenders and partial
withdrawals line in the table above, for 2006 includes $120 million related to the reinsured variable annuity business. The surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred fixed annuities,
interest-sensitive life insurance products and Allstate Bank products, based on the beginning of period contractholder funds, was 13.3% in 2007 compared to 13.9% in 2006. The improvement in the
surrender and partial withdrawal rate in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to a block of corporate owned life insurance policies that terminated in 2006 due to the bankruptcy of the
policyholder.   

          Surrenders
and partial withdrawals increased 25.6% in 2006 compared to 2005, while the surrender and partial withdrawal rate increased to 13.9% for 2006 from 11.7% for 2005. The increase
in the surrender and partial withdrawal rate in 2006 was influenced by multiple factors, including the relatively low interest rate environment during the preceding years, which reduced reinvestment
opportunities and increased the number of policies with little or no surrender charge protection. Also influencing the increase were our crediting rate strategies related to renewal business
implemented to improve investment spreads on selected contracts.   

             Net investment income    increased 3.0% in 2007 compared to 2006 and 9.0% in 2006 compared to 2005. The 2007 increase was primarily due to
higher average portfolio balances, increased portfolio yields and higher income from limited partnership interests. The 2006 increase was due to increased portfolio yields and higher average portfolio
balances. Higher average portfolio balances in both years resulted primarily from the investment of cash flows from operating activities and, in 2006, financing activities related primarily to
deposits from fixed annuities, funding agreements and interest-sensitive life policies. The higher portfolio yields in both periods were primarily due to increased yields on floating rate instruments
resulting from higher short-term market interest rates and improved yields on fixed rate assets supporting fixed annuities. For certain products, the yield changes on our floating rate
instruments are primarily offset by changes in crediting rates to holders of our floating rate contracts, resulting in minimal impact on net income.   

Realized capital gains and losses    are reflected in the following table for the years ended December 31.   

90  

For further discussion of realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of MD A.   

           Analysis of Costs and Expenses       Total costs and expenses in 2007 were consistent with 2006 as increased interest credited to
contractholder funds and life and annuity contract benefits were offset by lower amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and restructuring and related charges. Total costs and expenses
increased 0.3% in 2006 compared to 2005 due to higher interest credited to contractholder funds and restructuring and related charges, partially offset by lower operating costs and expenses and life
and annuity contract benefits.   

             Life and annuity contract benefits    increased 1.2% or $19 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to increased contract benefits on
life insurance products, partially offset by lower contract benefits on annuities. Increased contract benefits on life insurance products in 2007 were primarily due to unfavorable mortality
experience, litigation related costs recognized in 2007 in the form of additional policy benefits on certain universal life policies written prior to 1992, and higher contract benefits associated with
the Workplace Division. The decline in contract benefits on annuities was mostly attributable to favorable mortality experience on immediate annuities with life contingencies and the absence in 2007
of contract benefits on the reinsured variable annuity business, partially offset by an increase in the implied interest on
immediate annuities with life contingencies. This implied interest totaled $547 million and $539 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          Life
and Annuity contract benefits decreased 2.8% or $45 million in 2006 compared to 2005 due to the absence in 2006 of amounts related to the loan protection business that was
transferred to Allstate Protection beginning in 2006 and the absence in 2006 of contract benefits related to the reinsured variable annuity business in the period subsequent to the effective date of
the reinsurance agreement. Excluding the impact of the loan protection business in 2005 and the reinsured variable annuity business, contract benefits increased 6.1% or $90 million in 2006
compared to 2005 due primarily to growth in business in force and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingences to $539 million in 2006
from $530 million in 2005.   

          We
analyze our mortality and morbidity results using the difference between premiums, contract charges earned for the cost of insurance and life and annuity contract benefits excluding
the portion related to the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies ("benefit spread"). The benefit spread by product group is disclosed in the following table.   

Interest credited to contractholder funds    increased 2.8% or $72 million in 2007 compared to
2006 and 8.6% or $206 million in 2006 compared to 2005. Both increases were due primarily to growth in average contractholder funds and, to a lesser extent, higher weighted average interest
crediting rates on institutional products, which are detailed in the table below. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the reinsured variable annuity business. Excluding the impact
of the reinsured variable annuity business, interest credited to contractholder funds increased 3.7% in 2007 compared to 2006 and 10.5% in 2006 compared to 2005.   

In
order to analyze the impact of net investment income and interest credited to policyholders on net income, we review the difference between net investment income and the sum of
interest credited to contractholder funds and the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies, which is   

  91  

included
as a component of life and annuity contract benefits on the Consolidated Statements of Operations ("investment spread"). The investment spread by product group is shown in the following
table.   

To further analyze investment spreads the following table summarizes the weighted average investment yield on assets supporting product
liabilities and capital, interest crediting rates on investment type products and investment spreads on those products during 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

The following table summarizes our product liabilities as of December 31 and indicates the account value of those contracts and policies in
which an investment spread is generated.   

92  

Amortization of DAC    decreased 6.9% or $43 million in 2007 compared to 2006 and decreased 0.5% or $3 million in 2006 compared
to 2005. The components of amortization of DAC are summarized in the following table.   

(1)    Amortization
of DAC before amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses and changes in assumptions for 2006 and 2005 includes $(72) million and $(103) million,
respectively, relating to the reinsured variable annuity business.
      (2)    Amortization
relating to realized capital gains and losses for 2006 and 2005 includes $28 million and $1 million, respectively, relating to the reinsured variable
annuity business.
      (3)    Amortization
deceleration (acceleration) for changes in assumptions ("DAC unlocking") for 2005 includes $55 million relating to the reinsured variable annuity business. There
was no DAC unlocking related to variable annuities in 2006.    

          The decrease in amortization of DAC in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to the absence in 2007 of amortization on the reinsured variable annuity
business. Excluding amortization relating to the reinsured variable annuity business, amortization of DAC in 2007 was consistent with 2006 as increased amortization related to higher gross profits on
fixed annuities and a decline in the credit to income for amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses were partially offset by lower amortization related to interest-sensitive life
insurance contracts and a favorable impact relating to our annual comprehensive review of DAC assumptions (commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking"). The decline in amortization related to
interest-sensitive life insurance contracts was the result of a write-down in 2006 totaling $27 million for the present value of future profits related to a block of corporate owned
life insurance policies that terminated due to the bankruptcy of the policyholder.   

          The
slight decline in amortization of DAC in 2006 compared to 2005 was driven mostly by a favorable change in amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses and a reduction
in amortization on our reinsured variable annuity business, almost entirely offset by the impact of higher gross profits on investment contracts and the write-off in 2006 totaling
$27 million related to the block of corporate owned life insurance policies described above.   

          The
impact of realized capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC is dependent upon the relationship between the assets that give rise to the gain or loss and the product liability
supported by the assets. Fluctuations result from changes in the impact of realized capital gains and losses on actual and expected gross profits.   

  93  

The
DAC asset was reduced by $726 million in 2006 as a result of the disposition of substantially all of our variable annuity business. The changes in the DAC asset are detailed
in the following tables.   

(1)    The
adoption of Statement of Position 05-1, "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
Contracts" ("SOP 05-1"), resulted in a $7 million after-tax adjustment to unamortized DAC related to the impact on future estimated gross profits from the changes
in accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer qualify for deferral under SOP 05-1. The adjustment was recorded as a reduction of retained
income at January 1, 2007 and a reduction of the DAC balance of $11 million, pretax.
      (2)    Included
as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
      (3)    Commonly
referred to as "DAC unlocking".    

             Operating costs and expenses    decreased 5.8% in 2007 compared to 2006 and decreased 25.9% in 2006
compared to 2005. The following table summarizes operating costs and expenses.   

Non-deferrable acquisition costs and other operating costs and expenses declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to expenses in 2006
related to the reinsured variable annuity business. Subsequent to the effective date of the reinsurance agreement for the variable annuity business, operating costs and expenses benefited from a
servicing fee paid by Prudential for Allstate Financial's servicing of the business during a 24 month or less transition period following the effective date of the reinsurance agreement.
Non-deferrable acquisition costs and other operating costs and expenses for 2006 included $19 million and $24 million, respectively, related to the reinsured variable annuity
business for the period   

  94  

of
2006 prior to the effective date of the reinsurance agreement. Excluding expenses associated with the impact of the reinsured variable annuity business in the period of 2006 prior to the effective
date of the reinsurance agreement, non-deferrable acquisition expenses increased 7.1% in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher non-deferrable commissions on certain Workplace
Division products and other operating costs and expenses increased 1.9% due to higher investment in technology.   

Non-deferrable
acquisition costs declined 28.6% in 2006 compared to 2005 due primarily to the transfer of the loan protection business to Allstate Protection effective
January 1, 2006 and a reduction in non-deferrable commissions, which was primarily due to the reinsured variable annuity business. Non-deferrable acquisition costs
related to the loan protection business amounted to $39 million in 2005.   

          Other
operating costs and expenses declined $94 million or 24.3% in 2006 compared to 2005. The reinsured variable annuity business and the transfer of the loan protection business
resulted in $51 million of this reduction. The remaining decline related to a $28 million charge in the prior year for an increase in a liability for future benefits of a previously
discontinued benefit plan, and expense savings initiatives, including the VTO. For more information on the VTO, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.   

          Restructuring
and related charges for 2006 reflect costs related to the VTO.   

             Loss on disposition of operations    for 2007, 2006 and 2005 totaled $10 million, $92 million and $13 million,
respectively. In 2007, the net loss was primarily comprised of losses associated with the anticipated disposition of our direct response long-term care business that is currently held for
sale, partially offset by amortization of the deferred reinsurance gain and other adjustments associated with reinsured variable annuity business. The net loss in 2006 was almost entirely attributable
to the reinsured variable annuity business. In 2005, the net loss was related to several individually insignificant gains and losses for anticipated dispositions.   

             Income tax expense    decreased by 3.9% or $8 million in 2007 compared to 2006 and increased by 10.1% or $19 million in 2006
compared to 2005. The decline in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to lower income from operations before income tax expense and an energy tax credit that reduced income tax expense. The increase in 2006
compared to 2005 was due to increased income from operations before income tax expense partially offset by a slight decline in the effective tax rate.   

Reinsurance Ceded       We enter into reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurers to limit our risk of mortality and
morbidity losses. In addition, Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all
risks ceded to reinsurers.   

          As
of both December 31, 2007 and 2006, 48% of our face amount of life insurance in force was reinsured. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, for certain term life insurance
policies, we ceded up to 90% of the mortality risk depending on the length of the term. Additionally, we ceded substantially all of the risk associated with our variable annuity business and we cede
100% of the morbidity risk on substantially all of our long-term care contracts. Beginning in July 2007, for new life insurance contracts, we ceded the mortality risk associated with
coverage in excess of $3 million per life for contracts issued to individuals age 70 and over, and we ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $5 million per life
for most other contracts. Also beginning in July 2007, for certain large contracts that meet specific criteria, the Company's retention limit was increased to $10 million per life. In the
period prior to July 2007, but subsequent to August 1998, we ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $2 million per life, except in 2006 for certain instances when
specific criteria were met, we ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $5 million per life. For business sold prior   

  95  

to
October 1998, we ceded mortality risk in excess of specific amounts up to $1 million per individual life. The changes in Allstate Financial's retention guidelines for new life insurance
contracts did not have a significant impact on the results of operations in 2007 or 2006.   

          Amounts
recoverable from reinsurers by type of policy or contract at December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

(1)    Reinsurance
recoverables as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 include $1.26 billion and $1.49 billion, respectively, for general account reserves related to reinsured
variable annuities.    

          The estimation of reinsurance recoverables is impacted by the uncertainties involved in the establishment of reserves.   

Our
reinsurance recoverables, summarized by reinsurer as of December 31, are shown in the following table.   

(1)    As
of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the other category includes $84 million and $74 million, respectively, of recoverables due from reinsurers with an investment
grade credit rating from S P.    
  96  

We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of reinsurers in order to determine our risk of recoverability on an individual and aggregate basis,
and a provision for uncollectible reinsurance is recorded if needed. No amounts have been deemed unrecoverable in the three-years ended December 31, 2007.   

          We
enter into certain inter-company reinsurance transactions for the Allstate Financial operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among various legal
entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

   Allstate Financial Outlook     

We
plan to increase sales of our financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies by developing and bringing to market new innovative, consumer-driven financial products
and features targeted to middle market customers.
           We
plan to grow sales of our Workplace Division products and increase focus on larger employers.
           Sales
of our institutional products will be impacted by management's assessment of market liquidity, credit spreads and other market conditions. Market conditions may also
influence whether maturing contracts are replaced with new issuances.
           We
expect operating costs and expenses to increase over the prior year as a result of increased spending for the development of innovative products, additional marketing and
growth of our Allstate exclusive agency and Workplace Division distribution channels as well as a reduction in the variable annuity servicing fee from Prudential. We expect that these expense
increases will be partially mitigated by our continuing focus on operating efficiency.
           We
plan to balance targeted new business return improvement with investments in growth initiatives and sales. Initially, investments in growth are expected to slow the
improvement of returns and may reduce the price competitiveness of certain products, such as our fixed annuities, and slow or reduce the growth in sales and net income.
           The
transition of our investment objective from primarily income generation to increased focus on increasing total returns may result in increased volatility in net
investment income and realized capital gains and losses from period to period. Increased allocations to alternative investment classes, such as limited partnership interests and other equity-based
assets, may also contribute to this volatility.
           Increased
levels of dividends paid by Allstate Financial in 2007, combined with the anticipated dividends in 2008, may lead to a decline in invested assets and investment
income.    

INVESTMENTS     

           Overview and Strategy       An important component of our financial results is the return on our investment portfolios. Investment
portfolios are segmented between the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other operations. The investment portfolios are managed based upon the nature of each respective business
and its corresponding liability structure.   

          The
Property-Liability portfolio's investment strategy emphasizes safety of principal and consistent income generation, within a total return framework. This approach, which has produced
competitive returns over time, is designed to ensure financial strength and stability for paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth. We employ a strategic asset allocation
model, which   

  97  

considers
the nature of the liabilities and risk tolerances, as well as the risk and return parameters of the various asset classes in which we invest. The model's recommended asset allocation, along
with duration and liquidity considerations, guides our initial asset allocation. This is further adjusted based on an analysis of other potential market opportunities available. Portfolio performance
is measured against benchmarks at target allocation weights.   

          The
Allstate Financial portfolio's investment strategy has historically focused on the need for risk-adjusted spread to support the underlying liabilities to achieve return
on capital and profitable growth. We believe investment spread is maximized by selecting assets that perform favorably on a long-term basis and by disposing of certain assets to minimize
the effect of downgrades and defaults. We believe this strategy maintains the investment spread necessary to sustain income over time. The portfolio management approach employs a combination of
recognized market, analytical and proprietary modeling, including a strategic asset allocation model, as the primary basis for the allocation of interest sensitive, illiquid and credit assets as well
as for determining overall below investment grade exposure and diversification requirements. Within the ranges set by the strategic asset allocation model, tactical investment decisions are made in
consideration of prevailing market conditions. We will be adding a total return framework to the management of Allstate Financial's assets to further enhance long-term returns and leverage
our active management capabilities.   

          The
Corporate and Other portfolio's investment strategy balances the pursuit of competitive returns with the unique liquidity needs of the portfolio relative to the overall corporate
capital structure. The portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, highly-liquid fixed income and short-term securities with additional investments in less liquid holdings in order to
enhance overall returns.   

          In
conjunction with our priority of optimizing the returns we realize for the risks we accept, we will be undertaking selected new investment strategies. The first is exploring the
adoption of an enhanced enterprise-wide asset allocation model. This model will provide opportunities for enhanced returns by considering our total liability profile rather than a more
limited business unit profile. This should allow us to capitalize on the diversification of risk within the enterprise and to invest in a broader and more global array of asset types. This shift in
strategy will improve overall returns for the same level of portfolio risk being assumed today, although it may result in a different mix of assets held in the business segments.   

          We
are also forming investment subsidiaries, one within Allstate Financial and the other within Corporate and Other, to pursue investment opportunities not efficiently held within our
insurance operations. The creation of these subsidiaries improves our capital management by enabling higher return investment strategies. As a result of these strategies and enterprise asset
allocation, there may be a different mix in the reporting of returns between investment income, realized capital gains and losses, unrealized capital
gains and losses and higher investment expenses. Additionally, these strategies may result in increased leverage from investing activities.   

  98  

As a result of tactical decisions in each of the portfolios, we may sell securities during a period in which fair value has declined below amortized cost for fixed income securities or
cost for equity securities. Portfolio monitoring, which includes identifying securities that are other-than-temporarily impaired and recognizing
other-than-temporary impairments on securities in an unrealized loss position for which we do not have the intent and ability to hold until recovery, are conducted regularly.
For more information, see the Portfolio Monitoring section of the MD A.   

           Portfolio Composition       The composition of the investment portfolios at December 31, 2007 is presented in the table
below. Also see Notes 2 and 5 of the consolidated financial statements for investment accounting policies and additional information.   

(1)    Fixed
income securities are carried at fair value. Amortized cost basis for these securities was $31.70 billion, $59.40 billion and $2.40 billion for
Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other, respectively.
      (2)    Equity
securities are carried at fair value. Cost basis for these securities was $4.17 billion and $102 million for Property-Liability and Allstate Financial,
respectively.
      (3)    Balances
reflect the elimination of related party investments between Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other.    

          Total investments decreased to $118.98 billion at December 31, 2007, from $119.76 billion at December 31, 2006,
primarily due to decreased net unrealized gains on fixed income and equity securities and lower funds associated with collateral received in conjunction with securities lending and other activities,
partially offset by positive cash flows from operating activities.   

          The
Property-Liability investment portfolio decreased to $40.91 billion at December 31, 2007, from $41.66 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to
dividends paid by AIC to The Allstate Corporation and decreased net unrealized gains on equity and fixed income securities, partially offset by positive cash flows from operating activities and the
repayment of a $500 million intercompany note by ALIC to its parent, AIC.   

          The
Allstate Financial investment portfolio decreased to $74.25 billion at December 31, 2007, from $75.95 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to
decreased net unrealized gains on fixed income securities, the payment of dividends to AIC, the repayment of ALIC's intercompany note to its parent, AIC, and lower funds associated with collateral
received in conjunction with securities lending and other activities, partially offset by positive cash flows from operating activities.   

The
Corporate and Other investment portfolio increased to $3.82 billion at December 31, 2007, from $2.14 billion at December 31, 2006, primarily due to
dividends received from AIC and the proceeds from the $1 billion of junior subordinated securities issued in May 2007, partially offset by cash flows used in financing activities.   

          Total
investments at amortized cost related to collateral received in connection with securities lending business activities, funds received in connection with securities repurchase
agreements and collateral   

  99  

posted
by counterparties related to derivative transactions decreased to $3.46 billion at December 31, 2007, from $4.14 billion at December 31, 2006. As of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, these investments were carried at fair value and classified in fixed income securities totaling $2.85 billion and $2.63 billion, respectively, and
short-term investments totaling $549 million and $1.55 billion, respectively.   

          Securities
lending activities are primarily used as an investment yield enhancement, and are conducted with third parties such as brokerage firms. We obtain collateral, typically in the
form of cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% to 105% of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, respectively, and monitor the market value of the securities loaned on a daily basis
with additional collateral obtained as necessary. The cash we receive is invested in short-term and fixed income investments, and an offsetting liability to return the collateral is
recorded in other liabilities and accrued expenses.   

           Fixed Income Securities       See Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements for a table showing the amortized cost,
unrealized gains, unrealized losses and fair value for each type of fixed income security for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.   

          The
following table shows fixed income securities by type at December 31.   

During 2007, certain financial markets experienced decreased liquidity. This was particularly evident in the markets for securities collateralized by
sub-prime residential mortgages. We experienced this illiquidity particularly in our asset-backed residential mortgage-backed securities ("ABS RMBS"), asset-backed collateralized debt
obligations ("ABS CDOs"), Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities ("Alt-A") and commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations ("CRE CDO") portfolios. These
portfolios totaled $5.88 billion or less than 5% of our total investments at December 31, 2007. Certain other asset-backed and real estate-backed securities markets experienced
illiquidity, but to a lesser degree.   

          The
fair values of securities comprising the illiquid portfolios are obtained from our contracted third-party pricing servicers and brokers. We evaluated the reasonableness of the fair
value of these portfolios as of December 31, 2007 by comparing vendor prices to alternative third-party pricing and valuation servicers, both of which consider available market information
including, but not limited to, collateral quality, anticipated cash flows, credit enhancements, default rates, loss severities, and credit ratings from rating agencies. In addition, we also considered
the reasonableness of security values based upon the securities' relative position within their respective capital structures in determining the reasonableness of fair values, on a portfolio basis,
for the above referenced securities as of December 31, 2007.   

  100  

Municipal bonds   , including tax-exempt and taxable securities, totaled $25.31 billion and 96.8% were rated investment
grade at December 31, 2007.   

          As
of December 31, 2007, approximately $13.0 billion or 51.4% of our municipal bond portfolio is insured by eight bond insurers and 99.0% have a Moody's equivalent rating
of Aaa or Aa. Our practices for acquiring and monitoring municipal bonds primarily take into consideration the quality of the underlying security. As
of December 31, 2007, we believe that the valuations already reflect a significant decline in the value of the insurance, and further such declines if any, are not expected to be material.
While the valuation of these holdings may be temporarily impacted by negative market developments, we continue to have the intent and ability to hold the bonds and expect to receive all of the
contractual cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, 34.6% of our insured municipal bond portfolio was insured by MBIA, 25.6% by AMBAC, 19.4% by FSA and 16.6% by FGIC. In total, we hold
$14.4 billion of fixed income securities that are insured by bond insurers, including $911 million of our ABS RMBS and $474 million of our other asset-backed securities discussed
below. Additionally, we hold $46 million of corporate bonds that were directly issued by these bond insurers.   

          Included
in our municipal bond portfolio at December 31, 2007 are $2.56 billion of auction rate securities ("ARS") that have long-term stated maturities, with
the interest rate reset based on auctions every 7, 28 or 35 days depending on the specific security. At the auction date, if the quantity of sell orders exceeds the quantity of purchase orders,
the auction "fails" and the issuers are forced to pay a "maximum rate" as defined for each issue. The maximum rate is designed so that its prolonged use is an incentive to the issuer to call and
refinance the long-term bonds. The effect of this incentive may be lessened to the extent that the maximum rate is closer to current market rates. When auctions are successfully completed,
the interest rate reset normally corresponds with the short-term rate associated with the reset period. Our holdings primarily have a Moody's equivalent rating of Aaa and fair value was
estimated at the corresponding par value at December 31, 2007. We make our investment decisions based on the underlying credit of each security, which for approximately 90% of our holdings are
pools of student loans for which at least 85% of the collateral is insured by the U.S. Department of Education. During February of 2008, dealers were no longer supporting auctions with their own bids
as they had in the past and we experienced failed auctions for $1.81 billion of our ARS holdings for which we are currently receiving the maximum rate. The entire ARS portfolio will come up for
auction in March 2008. We anticipate that failed auctions may persist and more of our holdings will reset at the maximum rate. Auctions will continue to be conducted as scheduled for each of the
securities. While these developments continue in the market, par value of these holdings may not be representative of the fair value of these securities. Accordingly, subsequent auctions could be more
successful resulting in interest rates being more in line with the 7, 28 or 35 day reset periods.   

             Corporate bonds    totaled $38.47 billion and 91.3% were rated investment grade at December 31, 2007. As of December 31,
2007, $17.34 billion, or 45.1% of the portfolio consisted of privately placed securities compared to $17.31 billion or 43.5% at December 31, 2006. Privately placed securities
primarily consist of corporate issued senior debt securities that are in unregistered form and are directly negotiated with the borrower. All privately placed corporate securities are rated by The
National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") based on information provided to them and are also internally rated. Additionally, approximately 25.7% of the privately placed corporate
securities in our portfolio are rated by   

  101  

an
independent rating agency. The following table summarizes the privately placed corporate securities portfolio by credit quality as of December 31, 2007.   

Allstate's portfolio of privately placed securities are broadly diversified by issuer, industry sector, and by country. The portfolio is made up of approximately
650 issues with an average security value of approximately $26 million. Privately placed corporate obligations generally benefit from increased yields and structural security features such as
financial covenants and call protections that provide investors greater protection against credit deterioration, reinvestment risk or fluctuations in interest rates than those typically found in
publicly registered debt securities. Additionally, investments in these securities are made after extensive due diligence of the issuer, typically including direct discussions with senior management
and on-site visits to company facilities. Ongoing monitoring includes direct periodic dialog with senior management of the issuer and continuous monitoring of operating performance and
financial position. Every issue is internally rated with a formal rating affirmation once a year.   

          Hybrid
securities are carried at fair value and total $2.81 billion and $2.23 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. For further discussion on hybrid
securities, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.   

             Foreign government    securities totaled $2.94 billion and 90.8% were rated investment grade at December 31, 2007.   

Mortgage-backed securities ("MBS")    totaled $6.96 billion and 100.0% were rated investment grade at December 31, 2007. The
credit risk associated with MBS is mitigated due to the fact that 62.0% of the portfolio consists of securities that were issued by, or have underlying collateral that is guaranteed by U.S. government
agencies or U.S. government sponsored entities ("U.S. Agency"). The MBS portfolio is subject to interest rate risk since price volatility and the ultimate realized yield are affected by the rate of
prepayment of the underlying mortgages.   

  102  

The
following table shows MBS by type and Moody's equivalent rating at December 31, 2007.   

The following table presents information about the collateral in our Alt-A holdings at December 31, 2007.   

Alt-A mortgage-backed securities are at fixed or variable rates and include certain securities that are collateralized by residential mortgage loans
issued to borrowers with stronger credit profiles than sub-prime borrowers, but do not qualify for prime financing terms due to high loan-to-value ratios or limited
supporting documentation. Fair value represents 95.7% of the amortized cost of these securities. At December 31, 2007, the Alt-A
portfolio had net unrealized losses of $61 million, which were comprised of $2 million of gross unrealized gains and $63 million of gross unrealized losses. $1.08 billion
or 79.9% of these securities were issued during 2005, 2006 and 2007. We hold $623 million of Alt-A securities acquired during 2007, which were rated Aaa by one or more rating
agencies at the time of purchase.   

             Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities ("CMBS")    totaled $7.62 billion and 99.7% were rated investment grade at December 31,
2007. Approximately 85.7% of the CMBS investments are pools of commercial mortgages, broadly diversified across property types and geographical area. The CMBS portfolio is subject to credit risk, but
unlike other structured products, is generally not subject to prepayment risk due to protections within the underlying commercial mortgages, whereby borrowers are effectively restricted from prepaying
their mortgages due to changes in interest rates. Credit defaults can result in credit directed prepayments. The following table shows CMBS by type and Moody's equivalent rating at December 31,
2007.   

CRE CDO are investments secured primarily by commercial mortgage-backed securities and other commercial mortgage debt obligations. These securities are generally
less liquid and have a higher risk profile than other commercial mortgage-backed securities. Fair value represents 78.7% of the amortized   

  103  

cost
of these securities. At December 31, 2007, CRE CDOs had net unrealized losses of $155 million, which were comprised of $1 million of gross unrealized gains and
$156 million of gross unrealized losses. In addition to the quality of the loans and securities collateralizing the CRE CDOs, influential factors in our analysis are the adequacy of
subordination and strength of the CRE CDO management team.   

             Asset-backed securities ("ABS")    totaled $8.68 billion and 98.0% were rated investment grade at December 31, 2007. Credit
risk is managed by monitoring the performance of the collateral. In addition, many of the securities in the ABS portfolio are credit enhanced with features such as over-collateralization,
subordinated structures, reserve funds, guarantees and/or insurance. A portion of the ABS portfolio is also subject to interest rate risk since, for example, price volatility and ultimate realized
yields are affected by the rate of prepayment of the underlying assets.   

          The
following table shows ABS by type at December 31, 2007.   

The following table presents additional information about our ABS RMBS portfolio including a summary by first and second lien collateral at December 31,
2007.   

(1)    Fixed
rate and variable rate refer to the primary interest rate characteristics of the underlying mortgages at the time of issuance.
      (2)    The
credit ratings of the first lien ABS RMBS were 66.4% Aaa, 26.3% Aa and 7.3% A at December 31, 2007.
      (3)    The
credit ratings of the second lien ABS RMBS were 91.1% Aaa, 2.5% Aa, 1.8% A, 0.2% Baa and 4.4% Ba or lower at December 31, 2007.    
  104  

ABS RMBS portfolio includes securities that are collateralized by mortgage loans issued to borrowers that cannot qualify for prime or alternative financing terms due in part to an
impaired or limited credit history. It also includes securities that are collateralized by certain second lien mortgages regardless of the borrower's credit history. Fair value represents 88.7% of the
amortized cost of these securities. As of December 31, 2007, the ABS RMBS portfolio had net unrealized losses of $500 million, which were comprised of $2 million of gross
unrealized gains and $502 million of gross unrealized losses.   

          At
December 31, 2007, $911 million or 31.9% of the total ABS RMBS securities that are rated Aaa and Aa are insured by 6 bond insurers. $3.24 billion or 82.5% of the
portfolio consisted of securities that were issued during 2005, 2006 and 2007. At December 31, 2007, 81.9% of these securities were rated Aaa, 15.4% rated Aa, 1.4% rated A, 0.1% rated Baa and
1.2% rated Ba or lower.   

During
2007, three second lien ABS RMBS with a value of $16 million were downgraded within the investment grade ratings. Four second lien securities with a fair value of
$38 million were downgraded from investment grade to below investment grade ratings.   

          During
2007, we sold $456 million of ABS RMBS, recognizing a loss of $8 million. We also collected $946 million of principal repayments consistent with the expected
cash flows. These repayments represent approximately 25.7% of the amortized cost of our outstanding portfolio at December 31, 2006.   

          ABS
CDOs are securities collateralized by a variety of residential mortgage-backed and other securities, which may include sub-prime RMBS. Fair value represents 47.4% of the
amortized cost of these securities. As of December 31, 2007, this portfolio had net unrealized losses of $40 million.   

          Writedowns
during 2007 were recorded on our ABS RMBS and ABS CDOs totaling $20 million and $62 million, respectively. We did not record any write-downs related to our
Alt-As or CRE CDOs. We continue to believe that the unrealized losses on these securities are not necessarily predictive of the performance of the underlying collateral. In the absence of
further deterioration in the collateral relative to our positions in the securities' respective capital structures, which could require other-than-temporary impairments, the
unrealized losses should reverse over the remaining lives of the securities.   

             Other collateralized debt obligations    totaled $2.03 billion and 96.3% are rated investment grade at December 31, 2007. Other
collateralized debt obligations consist primarily of obligations secured by high yield and investment grade corporate credits including $1.2 billion of collateralized loan obligations;
$299 million of synthetic CDOs; $192 million of primarily bank trust preferred CDOs; $122 million of market value CDOs; $58 million of CDOs that invest in other CDOs ("CDO
squared"); and $53 million of collateralized bond obligations. The CDO squared holdings contain immaterial amounts of ABS CDOs, ranging up to 4% of the underlying collateral. The cash flows
used to pay principle and interest are derived from the other CDO's collateral except for synthetic CDOs which rely on cash flows from the underlying credit default swaps. As of December 31,
2007, net unrealized losses on the other collateralized debt obligations was $259 million.   

             Other asset-backed securities    consist primarily of investments secured by portfolios of credit card loans, auto loans, student loans and
other consumer and corporate obligations. As of December 31, 2007, the net unrealized losses on these securities was $17 million. Additionally, 17.6% of the other asset-backed securities
that are rated Aaa were insured by five bond insurers.   

          We
may utilize derivative financial instruments to help manage the exposure to interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent currency and credit risks, from the fixed income securities
portfolio. For a more detailed discussion of interest rate, and currency risks and our use of derivative financial instruments, see the Net realized capital gains and losses and Market Risk sections
of the MD A and Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

  105  

The
following table summarizes the credit quality of the fixed income securities portfolio at December 31, 2007.   

(1)    Defined
as a security having a rating from the NAIC of 1 or 2; a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody's or a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from Standard   Poor's, Fitch or
Dominion or a rating of aaa, aa, a or bbb from A.M. Best; or a comparable internal rating if an externally provided rating is not available.    

           Equity Securities       Equity securities include common stocks, real estate investment trust equity investments
and non-redeemable preferred stocks. The equity securities portfolio was $5.26 billion at December 31, 2007 compared to $6.15 billion at December 31, 2006. The
decrease is primarily attributable to sales of equity securities with realized gains totaling $1.14 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. Gross unrealized gains totaled
$1.10 billion at December 31, 2007 compared to $1.77 billion at December 31, 2006. Gross unrealized losses totaled $106 million at December 31, 2007 compared
to $20 million at December 31, 2006.   

           Mortgage Loans       Our mortgage loan portfolio, which is primarily held in the Allstate Financial portfolio was
$10.83 billion at December 31, 2007 and $9.47 billion at December 31, 2006, and comprised primarily of loans secured by first mortgages on developed commercial real estate.
Geographical and property type diversification are key considerations used to manage our exposure.   

          We
closely monitor our commercial mortgage loan portfolio on a loan-by-loan basis. Loans with an estimated collateral value less than the loan balance, as well as
loans with other characteristics indicative of higher than normal credit risks, are reviewed by financial and investment management at least quarterly for purposes of establishing valuation allowances
and placing loans on non-accrual status when and if necessary. The underlying collateral values are based upon either discounted property cash flow projections or a commonly used valuation
method that utilizes a one-year projection of expected annual income divided by a market based expected rate of return. We had no realized capital losses related to write-downs on mortgage
loans for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.   

           Limited partnership interests       Limited partnership interests totaled $2.50 billion, or 2.1% of total investments, at
December 31, 2007. Limited partnership interests primarily have exposure to private equity, real estate and hedge funds. This balance has increased 53.9% since December 31, 2006. Of the
Limited Partnership Interests held at December 31, 2007, 52.6% were accounted for under the Equity Method of accounting, the remaining 47.4% were carried at cost.   

Short-Term Investments       Our short-term investment portfolio was $3.06 billion and
$2.43 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We invest available cash balances primarily in taxable short-term securities having a final maturity date or
redemption date of less than one year.   

  106  

Other investments       Our other investments are comprised primarily of $1.21 billion of bank loans and
$1.08 billion of policy loans. Bank loans are comprised primarily of senior secured corporate loans and are carried at amortized cost. Policy loans are carried at the unpaid principal balances.   

           Unrealized Gains and Losses       See Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements for further disclosures regarding
unrealized losses on fixed income and equity securities and factors considered in determining whether securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. The unrealized net capital
gains on fixed income and equity securities at December 31, 2007 totaled $1.95 billion, a decrease of $2.34 billion since December 31, 2006. The decrease in net unrealized
net capital gains was related primarily to increased unrealized losses on investment grade fixed income securities, resulting from widening credit spreads and credit exposure related to collateralized
securities, which more than offset the effects of declining interest rates and sales of equity securities with net realized gains totaling $1.14 billion.   

          Credit
spreads are the additional yield on fixed income securities above the risk-free rate (typically defined as the yield on U.S. treasury securities), that market
participants require to compensate them for assuming credit, liquidity and or repayment risks for fixed income securities with consistent terms. Credit spreads vary with the market's perception of
risk and liquidity in specific fixed income markets. Credit spreads can widen (increase) or tighten (decrease) and may offset or add to the effects of risk-free interest rate changes in
the valuation of fixed income securities from period to period.   

          Gross
unrealized gains and losses on fixed income securities by type and sector are provided in the table below.   

107  

The banking, financial services, consumer goods, and utilities sectors had the highest concentration of gross unrealized losses in our corporate fixed income securities portfolio at
December 31, 2007. The gross unrealized losses in these sectors were primarily company specific and the result of widening credit spreads. As of December 31, 2007, $598 million or
78.5% of the gross unrealized losses in the corporate fixed income portfolio and $1.37 billion or 95.7% of the gross unrealized losses in the remaining fixed income securities related to
securities rated investment grade. Unrealized losses on investment grade securities are principally related to rising interest rates or changes in credit spreads since the securities were acquired.   

          All
securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007 were included in our portfolio monitoring process for determining whether declines in value are
other-than-temporary.   

          The
following table shows the composition by credit quality of the fixed income securities with gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2007.   

The table above includes 40 securities with a fair value totaling $351 million and an unrealized loss of $18 million that have not
yet received an NAIC rating, for which we have assigned a comparable internal rating. Due to lags between the funding of an investment, execution of final legal documents, filing with the Securities
Valuation Office ("SVO") of the NAIC, and rating by the SVO, we generally have a small number of securities that have a pending rating.   

          Unrealized
losses on investment grade securities principally relate to changes in interest rates or changes in credit spreads, which reflect liquidity conditions of the related markets,
since the securities were acquired. Of the unrealized losses on below investment grade securities, there were no significant unrealized loss positions (greater than or equal to 20% of amortized cost)
for six or more consecutive months prior to December 31, 2007. Included among the securities rated below investment grade are high-yield bonds and securities that were investment
grade when originally acquired. We mitigate the credit risk of investing in below investment grade fixed income securities by limiting the percentage of our fixed income portfolio invested in such
securities, through diversification of the portfolio, active credit monitoring and portfolio management.   

  108  

The
scheduled maturity dates for fixed income securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007 are shown below. Actual maturities may differ from those scheduled as
a result of prepayments by the issuers.   

(1)    Because
of the potential for prepayment, these securities are not categorized based on their contractual maturities.    

          The equity portfolio is comprised of securities in the following sectors.   

(1)    Other
consists primarily of index-based securities.    

          At December 31, 2007, the financial services, consumer goods and banking sectors had the highest concentration of gross unrealized losses
in our equity portfolio, which were company and sector specific. We expect the eventual recovery of these securities and the related sectors. All securities in an unrealized loss position at
December 31, 2007 were included in our portfolio monitoring process for determining whether declines in value are potentially other-than-temporary.   

We
use several methodologies to estimate the fair value of fixed income and equity securities and exchange traded and non-exchange traded derivative contracts. For a
discussion of these methods, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD A.   

           Portfolio Monitoring       We have a comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify and evaluate, on a
case-by-case basis, fixed income and equity securities whose carrying value may be other-than-temporarily impaired. The process includes a quarterly
review of all securities using a screening process to identify situations where the fair value, compared to amortized cost for fixed income   

  109  

securities,
and cost for equity securities is below established thresholds for certain time periods, or which are identified through other monitoring criteria such as ratings downgrades or payment
defaults. The securities identified, in addition to other securities for which we may have a concern, are evaluated based on facts and circumstances for inclusion on our watch-list. We
also conduct a portfolio review to recognize impairment on securities in an unrealized loss position for which we do not have the intent and ability to hold until recovery as a result of approved
programs involving the disposition of investments for reasons such as changes in duration, revisions to strategic asset allocations and liquidity actions, as well as certain dispositions anticipated
by portfolio managers. All investments in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007 were included in our portfolio monitoring process for determining whether declines in value were
other-than-temporary.   

  110  

The
following table summarizes fixed income and equity securities in a gross unrealized loss position according to significance, aging and investment grade classification.   

(1)    For
fixed income securities, cost represents amortized cost.    
  111  

The largest individual unrealized loss was $12 million for category (I) and $26 million for category (II) as of December 31, 2007.   

          Categories (I)
and (II) have generally been adversely affected by overall economic conditions including interest rate increases and the market's evaluation of certain
sectors. The degree to which and/or length of time that the securities have been in an unrealized loss position does not suggest that these securities pose a high risk of being
other-than-temporarily impaired. Categories (III) and (IV) have primarily been adversely affected by industry and issue specific, or issuer specific conditions.
All of the securities in these categories are monitored for other-than-temporary impairment. We expect that the fair values of these securities will recover over time.   

          Whenever
our initial analysis indicates that a fixed income security's unrealized loss of 20% or more for at least 36 months or any equity security's unrealized loss of 20% or
more for at least 12 months is temporary, additional evaluations and management approvals are required to substantiate that a write-down is not appropriate. As of
December 31, 2007, no securities met these criteria.   

          The
following table contains the individual securities with the largest unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007. No other fixed income or equity security had an unrealized loss
greater than $11 million or 0.5% of the total unrealized loss on fixed income and equity securities.   

We monitor the quality of our fixed income and bank loan portfolios by categorizing certain investments as "problem", "restructured" or "potential problem."
Problem fixed income securities and bank loans are in default with respect to principal or interest and/or are investments issued by companies that have gone into bankruptcy subsequent to our
acquisition or loan. Restructured fixed income and bank loan investments have rates and terms that are not consistent with market rates or terms prevailing at the time of the restructuring. Potential
problem fixed income or bank loan investments are current with respect to contractual principal and/or interest, but because of other facts and circumstances, we have concerns
regarding the borrower's ability to pay future principal and interest, which causes us to believe these investments may be classified as problem or restructured in the future.   

  112  

The
following table summarizes problem, restructured and potential problem fixed income securities and bank loans at December 31.   

(1)    Cumulative
write-downs recognized only reflects write-downs related to investments within the problem, potential problem and restructured categories.    

          We have experienced a decrease in the amortized cost of investments categorized as problem and an increase in the amortized cost of investments
categorized potential problem as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006. The decrease in the problem category was primarily due to dispositions, including the
pay-off of certain airline related investments. The increase in the potential problem category was primarily due to the addition of certain ABS CDOs, as well as a corporate bond issued by
a prime mortgage lender.   

          We
evaluated each of these investments through our portfolio monitoring process at December 31, 2007 and recorded write-downs when appropriate. We further concluded that any
remaining unrealized losses on these investments were temporary in nature and that we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until recovery. While these balances may increase in the
future, particularly if economic conditions are unfavorable, management expects that the total amount of investments in these categories will remain low relative to the total fixed income securities
and bank loans portfolios.   

           Net Investment Income       The following table presents net investment income for the years ended December 31.   

113  

Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses       The following tables present the components of realized capital gains and losses and
the related tax effect for the years ended December 31.   

Dispositions in the above table include sales, losses recognized in anticipation of dispositions and other transactions such as calls and prepayments. We may sell
impaired fixed income or equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position at the previous reporting date, or other investments where the fair value has declined below the carrying value, in
situations where new factors such as negative developments, subsequent credit deterioration, liquidity needs, and newly identified market opportunities cause a change in our previous intent to hold a
security to recovery or maturity.   

          Dispositions
in 2007 included net realized gains on sales and other transactions such as calls and prepayments of $1.48 billion and losses recorded in connection with anticipated
dispositions of $147 million. The net realized gains on sales and other transactions were primarily due to net realized gains on equity securities of $1.14 billion comprised of gross
gains of $1.39 billion and gross losses of $252 million. The
gross gains were attributable to our continuing tactical reallocation of equity securities in the Property-Liability portfolio.   

          Dispositions
in 2006 included net realized gains on sales and other transactions such as calls and prepayments of $491 million and losses recorded in connection with anticipated
dispositions of $112 million. The net realized gains on sales and other transactions were comprised of gross gains of $958 million and gross losses of $467 million. The
$467 million in gross losses primarily consisted of $314 million from sales of fixed income securities and $94 million from sales of equity securities.   

          During
our comprehensive portfolio reviews, we determine whether there are any approved programs involving the expected disposition of investments such as changes in duration, revisions
to strategic asset allocations and liquidity actions, as well as dispositions anticipated by the portfolio managers resulting from their on-going comprehensive reviews of the portfolios.
Upon approval of such programs, portfolio managers identify a population of suitable investments, typically larger than needed to accomplish the objective, from which specific securities are selected
to sell. Due to our change in intent to hold until recovery, we recognize impairments on investments within the population that are in an unrealized loss position. When the objectives of the programs
are accomplished, any remaining securities are redesignated as intent to hold until recovery.   

          For
the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized $147 million of losses related to a change in our intent to hold certain investments with unrealized losses in the
Property-Liability and Allstate Financial segments until they recover in value. The change in our intent was primarily related to strategic asset allocation decisions and ongoing comprehensive reviews
of our portfolios as well as a liquidity strategy in the Property-Liability portfolio. At December 31, 2007, the fair value of securities for which we did not have the intent to hold until
recovery totaled $1.68 billion.   

  114  

For
the year ended December 31, 2006, we recognized $112 million of losses related to a change in our intent to hold certain securities with unrealized losses until they
recover in value. The change in our intent was driven by certain approved programs, including funding for the disposition through reinsurance of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable
annuity business, yield enhancement strategies for Allstate Financial, a liquidity strategy review for Corporate and Other segment, changes to strategic asset allocations for Property-Liability and
ongoing comprehensive reviews of our portfolios. These programs were completed during 2006. At December 31, 2006, the fair value of securities for which we did not have the intent to hold until
recovery totaled $375 million.   

  115  

The table below presents the realized capital gains and losses (pretax) on the valuation and settlement of derivative instruments shown by underlying exposure and derivative strategy for
the years ended December 31.   

(in millions)      
     
   2007    
     
   2006    
     
   2005    

Interest rate exposure   

Asset/liability management  

Anticipatory hedging  
      
   $  
   
(30  
   )  
   $  
   
17  
      
   $  
   
(9  
   )  
   
Futures used to protect investment spread from changes in interest rates that arise from mismatches in the timing of cashflows from Allstate Financial products and the related investment activity. Amounts primarily reflect cash
settlements.  

Duration gap management  

(27  
   )  

(51  
   )  

(57  
   )  
   
Interest rate caps, floors and swaps are used by Allstate Financial to align interest-rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. The 2007 loss resulted from declining interest rates, approximately $20 million related to cash
settlements.  

Ineffectiveness  

(13  
   )  

(7  
   )  

(7  
   )  
   
Represents hedge accounting ineffectiveness, including the gains and losses realized upon the termination of the hedging instrument.  

Portfolio duration management  

(69  
   )  

(1  
   )  

26  

Net short interest rate derivatives are used to offset the effects of changing interest rates on the value of our Property-Liability fixed income portfolio which are reported in unrealized net capital gains in accumulated other comprehensive income.
The 2007 loss resulted from declining interest rates, approximately $55 million related to cash settlements.  

Hedging of interest rate exposure in annuity contracts  

(22  
   )  

1  

(1  
   )  
   
Interest rate caps used to offset the effect of changing interest rates linked to treasury rates on certain Allstate Financial annuity contracts, which are reported in credited interest. The results include cash settlements and valuation changes The
2007 net loss represents approximately $50 million of losses from changes in valuation due to the decline in interest rates and $28 million of gain from cash settlements.  

Equity exposure   

Asset replication and hedging unrealized gains on equity securities  

72  

(13  
  )  
     
  (1  
  )  
  S P futures were primarily used to protect unrealized gains on our equity securities portfolio reported in unrealized net capital gains in accumulated other comprehensive income or to replicate equity returns. The
results are primarily cash settlements.  

Embedded derivatives- conversion options in fixed income securities and equity indexed notes  

84  

118  

42  

Certain fixed income securities, such as convertible bonds and equity linked notes, contain embedded derivatives. The changes in valuation of the embedded derivatives are reported in realized capital gains and losses. The results generally track the
performance of underlying equity indices. Valuation gains and losses would be converted into cash for convertible securities upon our conversion or sale of these securities but will be eliminated if held to maturity; for equity indexed notes upon
sale or maturity.  

Credit exposure   

Asset replication  

(29  
  )  
     
  6  

2  
     
  Credit default swaps used to replicate fixed income securities to complement the cash market when credit exposure to certain issuers is not available or when the derivative alternative is less expensive than the cash
market alternative. The amounts primarily reflect non-cash changes in valuation due to fluctuating credit spreads, which would be converted to cash upon termination or a default on an underlying credit obligation.  

Commodity exposure   

Commodity derivatives for excess return  

106  

(111  
  )  
     
  (8  
  )  
  Commodity excess return swaps derivatives diversify our holdings and enhance overall returns. The amounts were primarily cash settlements and reflect returns on the underlying index. We have no holdings outstanding at
December 31, 2007.  

Currency exposure   

Foreign currency contracts  

(7  
  )  
     
  (5  
  )  

Other   

Other  

(3  
  )  

(2  
  )  

$  
  62  
     
  $  
  (46  
  )  
  $  
  (15  
  )  

116  

A changing interest rate environment will drive changes in our portfolio duration targets at a tactical level. A duration target and range is
established with an economic view of liabilities relative to a long-term portfolio view. Tactical duration management is accomplished through both cash market transactions including new
purchases and derivative activities that generate realized gains and losses. As a component of our approach to managing portfolio duration, realized gains and losses on certain derivative instruments
are most appropriately considered in conjunction with the unrealized gains and losses on the fixed income portfolio. This approach mitigates the impacts of general interest rate changes to the overall
financial condition of the Corporation as shown in the Market Risk section of the MD A. Approximately $53 million or 31.8% of the losses relate to the valuations of derivative instruments are
associated with economic hedging instruments that support investments whose valuation changes are reported in shareholders' equity.   

          The
ten largest losses from sales of individual securities for the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $58 million with the largest loss being $8 million and the
smallest loss being $3 million. The one security comprising the $8 million was in an unrealized loss position greater than or equal to 20% of amortized cost for fixed income securities
or cost for equity securities for a period of less than six consecutive months.   

          Our
largest aggregate loss on dispositions and writedowns are shown in the following table by issuer and its affiliates, and issue for government securities. No other issuer together
with its affiliates had an aggregated loss on dispositions and writedowns greater than 1.0% of the total gross loss on dispositions and writedowns on fixed income and equity securities.   

(1)    Dispositions
include losses recognized in anticipation of dispositions.
      (2)    Holdings
include fixed income securities at amortized cost or equity securities at cost.    

The circumstances of the above losses are considered to be security specific or issue specific and are not expected to have a material effect on
other holdings in our portfolios.   

   MARKET RISK     

          Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in equity, interest, commodity, or currency exchange rates and prices. Adverse changes to
these rates and prices may occur due to changes in the liquidity of a market or market segment, or to changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness and/or risk tolerance. Our primary market risk
exposures are to changes in interest   

  117  

rates
and equity prices, although we also have a smaller exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.   

The
active management of market risk is integral to our results of operations. We may use the following approaches to manage exposure to market risk within defined tolerance ranges:
1) rebalancing existing asset or liability portfolios, 2) changing the character of investments purchased in the future and 3) using derivative instruments to modify the market
risk characteristics of existing assets and liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. For a more detailed discussion of our use of derivative financial instruments, see Note 6 of the
consolidated financial statements.   

   Overview       We generate substantial investible funds from our Property-Liability and Allstate Financial businesses. In formulating and
implementing guidelines for investing funds, we seek to earn returns that enhance our ability to offer competitive rates and prices to customers while contributing to attractive and stable profits and
long-term capital growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each business.   

          Investment
policies define the overall framework for managing market and other investment risks, including accountability and controls over risk management activities. Subsidiaries that
conduct investment activities follow policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These investment policies specify the investment limits and strategies that are
appropriate given the liquidity, surplus, product profile and regulatory requirements of the subsidiary. Executive oversight of investment activities is conducted primarily through subsidiaries'
boards of directors and investment committees. For Allstate Financial, its asset-liability management ("ALM") policies further define the overall framework for managing market and investment risks.
ALM focuses on strategies to enhance yields, mitigate market risks and optimize capital to improve profitability and returns for Allstate Financial. Allstate Financial ALM activities follow
asset-liability policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These ALM policies specify limits, ranges and/or targets for investments that best meet Allstate Financial's
business objectives in light of its product liabilities.   

          We
manage our exposure to market risk through the use of asset allocation, duration and value-at-risk limits, simulation, and as appropriate, through the use of
stress tests. We have asset allocation limits that place restrictions on the total funds that may be invested within an asset class. We have duration limits on the Property-Liability and Allstate
Financial investment portfolios, and as appropriate, on individual components of these portfolios. These duration limits place restrictions on the amount of interest rate risk that may be taken. Our
value-at-risk limits are intended to restrict the potential loss in fair value that could arise from adverse movements in the fixed income, equity, and currency markets based
on historical volatilities and correlations among market risk factors. Comprehensive day-to-day management of market risk within defined tolerance ranges occurs as portfolio
managers buy and sell within their respective markets based upon the acceptable boundaries established by investment policies. For Allstate Financial, this day-to-day
management is integrated with and informed by the activities of the ALM organization. This integration results in a prudent, methodical and effective adjudication of market risk and return,
conditioned by the unique demands and dynamics of Allstate Financial's product liabilities and supported by the continuous application of advanced risk technology and analytics.   

          Although
we apply a similar overall philosophy to market risk, the underlying business frameworks and the accounting and regulatory environments differ considerably between the
Property-Liability and Allstate Financial businesses affecting investment decisions and risk parameters.   

Interest rate risk    is the risk that we will incur a loss due to adverse changes in interest rates relative to the interest rate characteristics of
interest bearing assets and liabilities. This risk arises from many of our   

  118  

primary
activities, as we invest substantial funds in interest sensitive assets and issue interest sensitive liabilities. Interest rate risk includes risks related to changes in U.S. Treasury yields
and other key benchmarks as well as changes in interest rates resulting from the widening credit spreads and credit exposure to collateralized securities.   

We
manage the interest rate risk in our assets relative to the interest rate risk in our liabilities. One of the measures used to quantify this exposure is duration. Duration measures
the price sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates. For example, if interest rates increase 100 basis points, the fair value of an asset with a duration of 5 is expected
to decrease in value by approximately 5%. At December 31, 2007, the difference between our asset and liability duration was approximately 0.39, compared to a 0.23 gap at December 31,
2006. A positive duration gap indicates that the fair value of our assets is more sensitive to interest rate movements than the fair value of our liabilities.   

Most
of our duration gap is attributable to the Property-Liability operations, with the primary liabilities being auto and homeowners claims. In the management of investments supporting
the Property-Liability business, we adhere to an objective of emphasizing safety of principal and consistency of income within a total return framework. This approach is designed to ensure our
financial strength and stability for
paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth. This objective generally results in a positive duration mismatch between the Property-Liability assets and liabilities.   

          For
the Allstate Financial business, we seek to invest premiums, contract charges and deposits to generate future cash flows that will fund future claims, benefits and expenses, and that
will earn stable spreads across a wide variety of interest rate and economic scenarios. To achieve this objective and limit interest rate risk for Allstate Financial, we adhere to a philosophy of
managing the duration of assets and related liabilities within predetermined tolerance levels. This philosophy is executed using interest rate swaps, futures, forwards, caps, floors and swaptions to
reduce the interest rate risk resulting from mismatches between existing assets and liabilities, and financial futures and other derivative instruments to hedge the interest rate risk of anticipated
purchases and sales of investments and product sales to customers.   

          We
pledge and receive collateral on certain types of derivative contracts. For futures and option contracts traded on exchanges, we have pledged securities as margin deposits totaling
$55 million as of December 31, 2007. For over-the-counter derivative transactions including interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, interest rate caps,
interest rate floor agreements, and credit default swaps, master netting agreements are used. These agreements allow us to net payments due for transactions covered by the agreements, and when
applicable, we are required to post collateral. As of December 31, 2007, we held cash of $72 million and securities of $226 million pledged by counterparties as collateral for
over-the-counter instruments; we pledged cash of $1 million and securities of $107 million as collateral to counterparties.   

          To
calculate the duration gap between assets and liabilities, we project asset and liability cash flows and calculate their net present value using a risk-free market
interest rate adjusted for credit quality, sector attributes, liquidity and other specific risks. Duration is calculated by revaluing these cash flows at alternative interest rates and determining the
percentage change in aggregate fair value. The cash flows used in this calculation include the expected maturity and repricing characteristics of our derivative financial instruments, all other
financial instruments (as described in Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements), and certain other items including unearned premiums, property-liability claims and claims expense
reserves, interest-sensitive liabilities and annuity liabilities. The projections include assumptions (based upon historical market experience and our experience) that reflect the effect of changing
interest rates on the prepayment, lapse, leverage and/or option features of instruments, where applicable. The preceding assumptions relate primarily to mortgage-backed securities, collateralized
mortgage obligations,   

  119  

municipal
housing bonds, callable municipal and corporate obligations, and fixed rate single and flexible premium deferred annuities. Additionally, the calculations include assumptions regarding the
renewal of property-liability policies.   

          Based
upon the information and assumptions used in the duration calculation, and interest rates in effect at December 31, 2007, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate,
parallel increase in interest rates ("rate shock") would decrease the net fair value of the assets and liabilities by approximately $1.51 billion,
compared to $1.76 billion at December 31, 2006. Reflected in the duration calculation are the effects of a program that uses short futures to manage the Property-Liability interest rate
risk exposures relative to duration targets, as well as a program that uses interest rate swaptions to manage the risk of a large rate increase. In calculating the impact of a 100 basis point increase
on the swaption value, we have assumed interest rate volatility remains constant. Based on the short futures and swaption contracts in place at December 31, 2007, we would recognize realized
capital gains totaling $361 million in the event of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel interest rate increase and $195 million in realized capital losses in the event of a 100 basis
point immediate, parallel interest rate decrease. The selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but
only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. There are $7.77 billion of assets supporting life insurance products such as traditional and interest-sensitive life that are
not financial instruments. These assets and the associated liabilities have not been included in the above estimate. The $7.77 billion of assets excluded from the calculation has increased from
the $7.08 billion reported at December 31, 2006 due to an increase in the in-force account value of interest-sensitive life products. Based on assumptions described above, in
the event of a 100 basis point immediate increase in interest rates, the assets supporting life insurance products would decrease in value by $554 million, compared to a decrease of
$457 million at December 31, 2006.   

          To
the extent that conditions differ from the assumptions we used in these calculations, duration and rate shock measures could be significantly impacted. Additionally, our calculations
assume that the current relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates (the term structure of interest rates) will remain constant over time. As a result, these
calculations may not fully capture the effect of non-parallel changes in the term structure of interest rates and/or large changes in interest rates.   

Equity price risk    is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in the general levels of the equity markets. At December 31, 2007,
we held approximately $4.32 billion in common stocks and $3.76 billion in other securities with equity risk (including primarily convertible securities, limited partnership funds,
non-redeemable preferred securities and equity-linked notes), compared to approximately $5.87 billion and $2.99 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2006.
Approximately 100.0% and 50.5% of these totals, respectively, represented assets of the Property-Liability operations at December 31, 2007, compared to approximately 100.0% and 53.5%,
respectively, at December 31, 2006. Additionally, we had 120 contracts in short Standard   Poor's 500 Composite Price Index ("S P 500") futures at December 31, 2007 with a
fair value of $44 million.   

          At
December 31, 2007, our portfolio of common stocks and other securities with equity risk had a beta of approximately 0.95, compared to a beta of approximately 1.02 at
December 31, 2006. Beta represents a widely used methodology to describe, quantitatively, an investment's market risk characteristics relative to an index such as the S P 500. Based on
the beta analysis, we estimate that if the S P 500 increases or decreases by 10%, the fair value of our equity investments will increase or decrease by approximately 9.5%, respectively. Based
upon the information and assumptions we used to calculate beta at December 31, 2007, we estimate that an immediate decrease in the S P 500 of 10% would decrease the net fair value of our
equity investments identified above by approximately $765 million, compared to $824 million at December 31, 2006. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease   

  120  

in
the S P 500 should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event.   

          The
beta of our common stocks and other securities with equity risk was determined by comparing the monthly total returns of these investments to monthly total returns of the
S P 500 over a three-year historical period. Since beta is historically based, projecting future price volatility using this method involves an inherent assumption that historical
volatility and correlation relationships between stocks and the composition of our portfolio will not change in the future. Therefore, the illustrations noted above may not reflect our actual
experience if future volatility and correlation relationships differ from the historical relationships.   

          At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had separate accounts assets related to variable annuity and variable life contracts with account values totaling $14.93 billion and
$16.17 billion, respectively. Equity risk exists for contract charges based on separate account balances and guarantees for death and/or income benefits provided by our variable products. In
2006, we disposed of substantially all of the variable annuity business through a reinsurance agreement with Prudential as described in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, and
therefore mitigated this aspect of our risk. Equity risk for our variable life business relates to contract charges and policyholder benefits. Total variable life contract charges for 2007 and 2006
were $92 million and $86 million, respectively. Separate account liabilities related to variable life contracts were $905 and $826 million in December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.   

          At
December 31, 2007 and 2006 we had approximately $3.98 billion and $3.47 billion, respectively, in equity-indexed annuity liabilities that provide customers with
interest crediting rates based on the performance of the S P 500. We hedge the risk associated with these liabilities using equity-indexed options and futures, interest rate swaps, and
eurodollar futures, maintaining risk within specified value-at-risk limits.   

             Foreign currency exchange rate risk    is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. This risk primarily arises from our foreign equity investments, including real estate funds and our Canadian operations. We also have certain funding agreement programs and a small amount of
fixed income securities that are denominated in foreign currencies, however, derivatives are used to effectively hedge the foreign currency risk of these funding agreements
and of approximately half the securities. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had approximately $924 million and $1.02 billion, respectively, in funding agreements denominated in
foreign currencies.   

          At
December 31, 2007, we had approximately $791 million in foreign currency denominated equity securities, an additional $669 million net investment in our foreign
subsidiaries, and $45 million in unhedged non-dollar pay fixed income securities. These amounts were $637 million, $559 million, and $0 million, respectively,
at December 31, 2006. Approximately 89.5% of the foreign currency exposure is in the Property-Liability business.   

Based
upon the information and assumptions we used at December 31, 2007, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates that we
are exposed to would decrease the value of our foreign currency denominated instruments by approximately $150 million, compared with an estimated $120 million decrease at
December 31, 2006. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the
potential effect of such an event. Our currency exposure is diversified across 30 currencies, compared to 21 currencies at December 31, 2006. Our largest individual foreign currency exposures
at December 31, 2007 were to the Canadian dollar (45.2%) and the Euro (21.7%). The largest individual foreign currency exposures at December 31, 2006 were to the Canadian dollar (44.8%)
and the Euro (20.9%). Our primary regional exposure is to Western Europe, approximately 35.5% at December 31, 2007, compared to 33.4% at December 31, 2006.   

  121  

The modeling technique we use to report our currency exposure does not take into account correlation among foreign currency exchange rates. Even though we believe it is very unlikely
that all of the foreign currency exchange rates that we are exposed to would simultaneously decrease by 10%, we nonetheless stress test our portfolio under this and other hypothetical extreme adverse
market scenarios. Our actual experience may differ from these results because of assumptions we have used or because significant liquidity and market events could occur that we did not foresee.   

             Commodity price risk    is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in the prices of commodities. This risk arises
from our commodity linked investments, such as the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index which is a broad based, oil dominated index. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had approximately
$0 million and $572 million exposure to the index, respectively. This exposure was almost entirely within Property-Liability.   

Based
upon the information and assumptions available at December 31, 2007, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change to the commodity index would decrease the value of
our commodity investments by $0 million, compared with an estimated $57 million decrease at December 31, 2006. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease in commodity prices should
not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event.   

   PENSION PLANS     

          We have defined benefit pension plans, which cover most full-time and certain part-time employees and employee-agents. See Note 16
of the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. The pension and other postretirement plans may be amended
or terminated at any time. Any revisions could result in significant changes to our obligations and our obligation to fund the plans.   

          We
report the net funded status of our pension and other postretirement plans in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income in shareholder's equity. It represents the differences between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation for other postretirement plans that have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic cost. The
measurement of the net funded status can vary based upon the fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. The net underfunded
status of the pension and other post-retirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2007 was $344 million, a decrease of $765 million from $1.1 billion at
December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2007, each of our qualified pension plans had net assets that exceeded its projected benefit obligation, based on an October 31, 2007
measurement date, although as of January 1, 2008, the fair value of plan assets had declined to the extent that certain plans' projected benefit obligations slightly exceeded plan assets.   

As
provided for in the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 87    "Employers' Accounting for
Pensions,"    the market-related value component of expected returns recognizes plan equity losses and gains over a five-year period, which we believe is consistent
with the long-term nature of pension obligations. As a result, the effect of changes in fair value on our net periodic pension cost may be experienced in periods subsequent to those in
which the fluctuations actually occur.   

          Net
periodic pension cost in 2008 is estimated to be $138 million based on current assumptions. Net periodic pension cost decreased in 2007 principally due to lower settlement
charges and decreases in the amortization of actuarial losses. Net periodic pension cost increased in 2006 principally due to higher settlement charges, an increase in the weighted average discount
rate assumption which is based on   

  122  

long-term
interest rates and the amortization of actuarial losses. In each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, net pension cost included non-cash settlement charges primarily
resulting from lump sum distributions made to agents and in 2006 due to higher lump sum payments made to Allstate employees. Additional settlement charges occurred during 2007 also related to the
Supplemental Retirement Income Plan ("SRIP") as a result of lump sum payments made from the plan. Settlement charges are expected to continue in the future as we settle our remaining agent pension
obligations by making lump sum distributions to agents.   

          Amounts
recorded for pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income are significantly affected by fluctuations in the returns on plan assets and the amortization of unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses. Plan assets sustained net losses in prior periods primarily due to declines in equity markets. These asset losses, combined with all other unrecognized actuarial gains and
losses, resulted in amortization of net actuarial loss (and additional net periodic pension cost) of $116 million in 2007 and $143 million in 2006. We anticipate that the unrealized loss
for our pension plans will exceed 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligations or the market-related value of assets during the foreseeable future, resulting in additional amortization and
net periodic pension cost.   

          Amounts
recorded for net periodic pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income are also significantly affected by changes in the assumptions used to determine the weighted
average discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The weighted average discount rate is based on rates at which expected pension benefits attributable to past
employee service could effectively be settled on a present value basis at the measurement date. We develop the assumed weighted average discount rate by utilizing the weighted average yield of a
theoretical dedicated portfolio
derived from bonds available in the Lehman corporate bond universe having ratings of at least "AA" by Standard   Poor's or at least "Aa" by Moody's on the measurement date with cash flows that
match expected plan benefit requirements. Significant changes in discount rates, such as those caused by changes in the yield curve, the mix of bonds available in the market, the duration of selected
bonds and expected benefit payments, may result in volatility in pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income.   

          Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the weighted average discount rate would result in an increase of $47 million in net periodic
pension cost and a $369 million increase in the net funded status liability of our pension plans recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income after-tax as of January 1,
2008, our remeasurement date to transition to a December 31 measurement date under SFAS No. 158, versus an increase of $55 million in net periodic pension cost and a
$423 million increase in the net funded status liability as of October 31, 2006. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the weighted average discount rate would decrease net
periodic pension cost by $34 million and would decrease the net funded status liability of our pension plans recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income after-tax by
$311 million as of January 1, 2008, versus a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $48 million and a $353 million decrease in the net funded status liability as of
October 31, 2006. This non-symmetrical range results from the non-linear relationship between discount rates and pension obligations, and changes in the amortization of
unrealized net actuarial gains and losses.   

          The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. While this rate reflects long-term assumptions
and is consistent with long-term historical returns, sustained changes in the market or changes in the mix of plan assets may lead to revisions in the assumed long-term rate of
return on plan assets that may result in variability of pension cost. Differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are a
component of unrecognized gains or losses, which may be amortized as a component of net   

  123  

actuarial
gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, the effect of changes in fair value on our pension cost may be experienced in results of operations in
periods subsequent to those in which the fluctuations actually occur.   

          Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would result in an increase of
$48 million in pension cost at January 1, 2008, compared to $42 million at October 31, 2006. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $48 million at January 1, 2008, compared to $42 million at
October 31, 2006.   

   CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY     

             Capital Resources    consist of shareholders' equity and debt, representing funds deployed or available to be
deployed to support business operations or for general corporate purposes. The following table summarizes our capital resources at December 31.   

Shareholders' equity    increased in 2007, due to net income and a decline in the net underfunded
status of the pension and other post-retirement benefit obligation, partially offset by share repurchases, decreases in unrealized net capital gains on investments and dividends paid to
shareholders. Shareholders' equity increased in 2006, due to net income which was partially offset by share repurchases, dividends paid to shareholders, decreases in unrealized net capital gains on
investments, and the recognition of the net funded status of pension and other post retirement benefit obligations recognized with the adoption of SFAS No. 158. For further information on SFAS
No. 158, see Notes 2 and 16 of the consolidated financial statements.   

          The
decline in the net underfunded status of the pension and other post-retirement benefit obligation in 2007 is primarily related to favorable investment performance of the
assets and an increase in the discount rate of the pension plans, and lower than assumed claims experience in the other post-retirement employee benefit plans. The favorable impact on
shareholders' equity was $580 million for pension, and $185 million for other post employment benefits ("OPEB").   

Share repurchases    Our $4.00 billion share repurchase program, which commenced in November 2006, is expected to be completed by
March 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2007, this program had $240 million remaining. This program was increased from $3.00 billion in May 2007, reflecting the amount of
proceeds received from our issuance of $1.00 billion of junior subordinated securities as described below. Share repurchases during 2007 included an accelerated stock repurchase agreement
totaling $500 million. In February 2008, we announced a new $2.00 billion share repurchase program that will commence upon completion of our current $4 billion program during
March 2008. The new program is expected to be completed by March 31, 2009.   

  124  

Since
1995, we have acquired 430 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $17.76 billion, primarily as part of various stock repurchase programs. We have reissued
94 million shares since 1995, primarily associated with our equity incentive plans, the 1999 acquisition of American Heritage Life Investment Corporation ("AHL") and the 2001
redemption of certain mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.   

          The
impact of our repurchase programs on total shares outstanding since 1995 has been a net reduction of 333 million shares or 37.2%.   

             Debt    increased in 2007 due to increases in long-term debt. Long-term debt increased due to the May 2007 issuance
of $500 million of Series A 6.50%
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures with a final maturity date of 2067 and $500 million of Series B 6.125%
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures with a final maturity date of 2067 (together the "Debentures"), utilizing the registration statement filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in May 2006. These securities will be treated in part as equity by Moody's and S P in their assessment of the Company's credit rating. Series A will
be considered 100% equity by S P until 2037, and 75% equity by Moody's until 2017 and 50% equity until 2037. Series B will be considered 100% and 75% equity by S P and Moody's, respectively,
until 2017. For further information on the debt issuances, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.   

          Debt
decreased in 2006, primarily due to net decreases in long-term debt and short-term debt as no commercial paper borrowings were outstanding.
Long-term debt decreased due to the December 1, 2006 repayment of $550 million of 5.375% Senior Notes in accordance with their scheduled maturity. We also elected to redeem
our $200 million of 7.83% junior subordinated debentures due in 2045, thereby triggering the redemption of 200,000 shares of the 7.83% mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary
trust ("trust preferred securities") originally issued by Allstate Financing II, an unconsolidated variable interest entity ("VIE"). The debentures and trust preferred securities were redeemed at a
price of 103.915% plus accrued and unpaid interest. In 2006, we also purchased a headquarters office building previously owned by a consolidated synthetic lease VIE for $78 million, further
reducing long-term debt.   

          The
2006 redemptions were made from available sources of liquidity including the issuance in March 2006 of $650 million of 5.95% Senior Notes due 2036, utilizing the registration
statement filed with the SEC in August 2003.   

          At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no outstanding commercial paper borrowings.   

           Financial Ratings and Strength       The following table summarizes our debt, commercial paper and insurance financial strength
ratings at December 31, 2007.   

Moody's    
     
   Standard 
  Poor's    
     
   A.M. Best    

The Allstate Corporation (senior long-term debt)  
     
  A1  
     
  A+  
     
  a  

The Allstate Corporation (commercial paper)  
     
  P-1  
     
  A-1  
     
  AMB-1  

AIC (insurance financial strength)  
     
  Aa2  
     
  AA  
     
  A+  

ALIC (insurance financial strength)  
     
  Aa2  
     
  AA  
     
  A+  

Our ratings are influenced by many factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability
management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), exposure to risks such as catastrophes and the current level of operating leverage. There were no changes to the ratings
listed above during 2007.   

  125  

AIC
entered into a capital support agreement with ALIC effective December 14, 2007. AIC also entered into an intercompany liquidity agreement with ALIC effective January 1,
2008. Under the capital support agreement, AIC is committed to provide capital to ALIC to allow for profitable growth while maintaining financial strength ratings at or above those of its parent, AIC.
The intercompany liquidity agreement establishes a mechanism under which short-term advances of funds may be made between AIC and ALIC for liquidity and other general corporate purposes.
The maximum amount of potential funding under each of these agreements is $1.0 billion.   

During
2006, ALIC issued an intercompany note in the amount of $500 million payable to its parent, AIC, which was repaid in the first quarter of 2007. ALIC used the funds to
accelerate purchases of investments based on its outlook of the availability of acceptable investments in the beginning of 2007. The impacts of these loans are eliminated in consolidation.   

          We
have distinct groups of subsidiaries licensed to sell property and casualty insurance in New Jersey and Florida that maintain separate group ratings. The ratings of these groups are
influenced by the risks that relate specifically to each group. Many mortgage companies require property owners to have insurance from an insurance carrier with a secure financial strength rating from
an accredited rating agency. Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company and Encompass Insurance Company of New Jersey, which write auto and homeowners insurance, are rated A- by A.M.
Best. Allstate New Jersey
Insurance Company also has a Demotech rating of A". Allstate Floridian, which writes primarily property insurance, has an A.M. Best rating of B+ with a negative outlook. This rating is in part
dependent upon the catastrophe exposure reduction provided by our catastrophe reinsurance program in Florida. We expect to place this program for the 2008 hurricane season later this year. AFIC and
its subsidiary, Allstate Floridian Indemnity Company, also have Demotech financial stability ratings of A'. Encompass Floridian Insurance Company and Encompass Floridian Indemnity Company, both
subsidiaries of AFIC, have Demotech financial stability ratings of A'.   

          Allstate's
domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices prescribed or permitted
by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Statutory surplus is a measure that is often used as a basis for determining dividend paying capacity, operating leverage and premium
growth capacity, and it is also reviewed by rating agencies in determining their ratings. As of December 31, 2007, AIC's statutory surplus is approximately $18.0 billion compared to
$19.1 billion at December 31, 2006.   

          The
ratio of net premiums written to statutory surplus is a common measure of operating leverage used in the property-casualty insurance industry and serves as an indicator of a
company's premium growth capacity. Ratios in excess of 3 to 1 are typically considered outside the usual range by insurance regulators and rating agencies. AIC's premium to surplus ratio was 1.5x on
December 31, 2007 compared to 1.4x in the prior year.   

          State
laws specify regulatory actions if an insurer's risk-based capital ("RBC"), a measure of an insurer's solvency, falls below certain levels. The NAIC has a standard
formula for annually assessing RBC. The formula for calculating RBC for property-liability companies takes into account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting factors for
reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. At December 31,
2007, the RBC for each of our domestic insurance companies was above levels that would require regulatory actions.   

          The
NAIC has also developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial
condition of insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or actions by insurance regulatory   

  126  

authorities.
The NAIC analyzes financial data provided by insurance companies using prescribed ratios, each with defined "usual ranges". Generally, regulators will begin to monitor an insurance
company if its ratios fall outside the usual ranges for four or more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue.
The ratios of our domestic insurance companies are within these ranges.   

           Liquidity Sources and Uses       Our potential sources of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and 
Other    

Receipt of insurance premiums  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Allstate Financial contractholder fund deposits  

X  

Reinsurance recoveries  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Receipts of principal, interest and dividends on investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Sales of investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Funds from investment repurchase agreements, securities lending, dollar roll, commercial paper and lines of credit agreements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Inter-company loans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Capital contributions from parent  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Dividends from subsidiaries  
     
  X  

X  

Tax refunds/settlements  

X  

Funds from periodic issuance of additional securities  

X  

Funds from the settlement of our benefit plans  

X  

Our potential uses of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and 
Other    

Payment of claims and related expenses  
     
  X  

Payment of contract benefits, maturities, surrenders and withdrawals  

X  

Reinsurance cessions and payments  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Operating costs and expenses  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Purchase of investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Repayment of investment repurchase agreements, securities lending, dollar roll, commercial paper and lines of credit agreements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Payment or repayment of inter-company loans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Capital contributions to subsidiaries  
     
  X  

X  

Dividends to shareholders/parent company  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Tax payments/settlements  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Share repurchases  

X  

Debt service expenses and repayment  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Settlement payments of employee and agent benefit plans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

127  

The following table summarizes consolidated cash flow activities by business segment.   

(1)    Business
unit cash flows reflect the elimination of intersegment dividends and borrowings.    

           Property-Liability         Cash provided by operating activities for Property-Liability in 2007 was comparable to
2006. Lower cash provided by operating activities for Property-Liability in 2006, compared to 2005, was primarily due to higher claim payments related to the prior year hurricanes, partially offset by
increased premiums.   

          Cash
flows provided by investing activities increased in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to increased sales of equity securities. Cash flows used in investing activities increased
in 2006, compared to 2005, primarily due to higher investment purchases, partially offset by proceeds from sales of securities.   

          Cash
flows were provided by financing activities in 2007 compared to being used in the financing activities in 2006, primarily due to the repayment of short-term debt in
2006. Cash flows used in financing activities increased in 2006, compared to 2005, primarily due to the repayment of short-term debt.   

Cash
flows were impacted by dividends paid by AIC to its parent, The Allstate Corporation, totaling $4.92 billion, $1.01 billion and $3.86 billion in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. During 2008, AIC will have
the capacity to pay a total of $4.96 billion in dividends without obtaining prior approval from the Illinois Department of Insurance. For a description of limitations on the payment of these
dividends, see Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements.   

           Allstate Financial         Higher operating cash flows for Allstate Financial in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily related to lower
operating expenses and tax payments, an increase in investment income, partially offset by increased policy and contract benefit payments and the absence in 2007 of contract charges on the reinsured
variable annuity business. Higher operating cash flows for Allstate Financial in 2006, compared to 2005, primarily related to higher investment income.   

          Cash
flows from investing activities increased in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to increased cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by increased cash used in
financing activities. Cash flows used in investing activities decreased in 2006 primarily due to decreased net cash provided by financing activities, partially offset by the investment of higher
operating cash flows. Cash flows used in investing activities in 2006 also include the settlements related to the disposition through reinsurance of substantially all our variable annuity business.   

          Cash
flows used in financing activities increased in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to lower contractholder fund deposits. Cash used in financing activities increased in 2006 as a
result of lower contractholder fund deposits and higher surrenders and partial withdrawals. For quantification of the changes in contractholder funds, see the Allstate Financial Segment section of the
MD A.   

          Financing
cash flows were impacted by dividends paid by Allstate Financial totaling $742 million, $725 million and $290 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  128  

A
portion of the Allstate Financial product portfolio, including fixed annuity, interest-sensitive life insurance and certain funding agreements, is subject to surrender and withdrawal
at the discretion of contractholders. The following table summarizes Allstate Financial's liabilities for these products by their contractual withdrawal provisions at December 31, 2007.   

(1)    Includes
$10.22 billion of liabilities with a contractual surrender charge of less than 5% of the account balance.
      (2)    Approximately
$8.26 billion of the contracts with market value adjusted surrenders have a 30-45 day period during which there is no surrender charge or
market value adjustment including approximately $1.45 billion with a period commencing during 2008.
      (3)    Includes
$5.63 billion of extendible funding agreements backing medium-term notes outstanding with an initial maturity of 13 months from the effective date
of the contract that require contractholders to elect a maturity extension each month for a period of 5 to 10 years, depending on the contract terms, up to the contractually specified final
maturity date. The contractually specified final maturity dates begin in 2009 and are definitive unless the maturity dates are accelerated in accordance with the contractholders' election to not
extend the maturity date, in which case the contracts mature 12 months thereafter. The contracts have an annual coupon step-up feature when extended. Based upon the elections made
as of December 31, 2007, approximately $4.20 billion will mature during 2008. In addition, from January 1, 2008 through February 15, 2008, approximately $827 million
elected to not extend the initial maturity date.
      (4)    Includes
approximately $1.12 billion of contractholder funds on variable annuities reinsured to Prudential effective June 1, 2006.    

To ensure we have the appropriate level of liquidity in this segment, we perform actuarial tests on the impact to cash flows of policy surrenders
and other actions under various scenarios. Depending upon the years in which certain policy types were sold with specific surrender provisions, Allstate Financial's cash flow could vary due to higher
surrender of policies exiting their surrender charge periods.   

          Allstate
Financial expects to meet the cash flow requirements of the non-extended funding agreements maturing in 2008 and 2009 primarily through a combination of cash
received from new product deposits and contractual interest and principal receipts from our investment portfolio.   

           Corporate and Other         Fluctuations in the Corporate and Other operating cash flows were primarily due to the timing of
intercompany settlements. Investing activities primarily relate to investments in the portfolios of Kennett Capital Holdings, LLC ("Kennett Capital Holdings"). Financing cash flows of the
Corporate and Other segment reflect actions such as fluctuations in short-term debt, repayment of debt, proceeds from the issuance of debt, dividends to shareholders of The Allstate
Corporation and share repurchases; therefore, financing cash flows are affected when we increase or decrease the level of these activities. Higher cash used in investing activities in 2007, when
compared to 2006, was the result of increased dividends from subsidiaries to the holding company. Higher cash used in financing activities in 2007, when compared to 2006, was the result of increased
share repurchases.   

          We
have established external sources of short-term liquidity that include a commercial paper program, lines-of-credit, dollar rolls and repurchase
agreements. In the aggregate, at December 31, 2007, these sources could provide over $3.96 billion of additional liquidity. For additional liquidity, we can also issue new insurance
contracts, incur additional debt and sell assets from our investment portfolio. The   

  129  

liquidity
of our investment portfolio varies by type of investment. For example, $17.34 billion of privately placed corporate obligations that represent 14.6% of the consolidated investment
portfolio, and $10.83 billion of mortgage loans that represent 9.10% of the consolidated investment portfolio, generally are considered to be less liquid than many of our other types of
investments, such as our U.S. government and agencies, municipal and public corporate fixed income security portfolios. The sources of liquidity for The Allstate Corporation include but are not
limited to dividends from AIC and $2.77 billion of consolidated investments of Kennett Capital Holdings at December 31, 2007.   

          We
have access to additional borrowing to support liquidity as follows:   

A
commercial paper program with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion to cover short-term cash needs. As of December 31, 2007, there were no balances
outstanding and therefore the remaining borrowing capacity was $1.00 billion; however, the outstanding balance fluctuates daily.
           Our
primary credit facility covers short-term liquidity requirements. Our $1.00 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, has an initial term of five
years expiring in 2012 with two one year extensions that can be exercised in the first or second year of the facility upon approval of existing or replacement lenders providing more than two thirds of
the commitments to lend. This facility contains an increase provision that would allow up to an additional $500 million of borrowing provided the increased portion could be fully syndicated at
a later date among existing or new lenders. Although the right to borrow under the facility is not subject to a minimum rating requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing under it
are based on the ratings of our senior, unsecured, nonguaranteed long-term debt. There were no borrowings under this line of credit during 2007. The total amount outstanding at any point
in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot exceed the amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility.
           A
universal shelf registration statement was filed with the SEC in May 2006. We can use it to issue an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock (including
337 million shares of treasury stock as of December 31, 2007), preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and securities of
subsidiaries. The specific terms of any securities we issue under this registration statement will be provided in the applicable prospectus supplements.    

Our
only financial covenant exists with respect to our credit facility and our synthetic lease VIE obligations. The covenant requires that we not exceed a 37.5% debt to capital resources
ratio as defined in the agreements. This ratio at December 31, 2007 was 17.0%. For quantification of the synthetic lease VIE obligations, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial
statements.   

          We
closely monitor and manage our liquidity through long- and short-term planning that is integrated throughout the corporation, the business segments and
investments. Allstate Financial manages the duration of assets and related liabilities through its ALM organization, using a dynamic process that addresses liquidity from components of the investment
portfolio, as appropriate, and is routinely subjected to stress testing. Allstate Protection's underwriting cash transactions comprise millions of small transactions that make it possible to
statistically determine reasonable expectations of patterns of liquidity, which are subject to volatility from unpredictable catastrophe losses. Discontinued Lines and Coverages' liabilities are
expected to be paid over many years and do not present a significant liquidity risk. Property-Liability monitors the duration of its assets and liabilities and maintains a portfolio of highly liquid
fixed income and equity securities, including short-term investments, exchange-traded common stock, municipal bonds, corporate bonds, and U.S. government and government agency securities
in order to address the variability of its cash flows. Allstate Financial and Property-Liability also have access to   

  130  

funds
from our commercial paper program through the participation of AIC and ALIC, and Allstate Financial has access to funds from the AIC and ALIC intercompany liquidity agreement.   

          Certain
remote events and circumstances could constrain our liquidity. Those events and circumstances include, for example, a catastrophe resulting in extraordinary losses, a downgrade
in our long-term debt rating of A1, A+ and a (from Moody's, Standard   Poor's and A.M. Best, respectively) to non-investment grade status of below
Baa3/BBB-/bb, a downgrade in AIC's financial strength rating from Aa2, AA and A+ (from Moody's, Standard   Poor's and A.M. Best, respectively) to below
Baa/BBB/A-, or a downgrade in ALIC's financial strength ratings from Aa2, AA and A+ (from Moody's, Standard   Poor's and A.M. Best, respectively) to below
Aa3/AA-/A-. The rating agencies also consider the interdependence of our individually rated entities, therefore, a rating change in one entity could potentially affect the
ratings of other related entities.   

Contractual Obligations and Commitments       Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 and the payments due by
period are shown in the following table.   

(1)    Liabilities
for collateral and repurchase agreements are typically fully secured with cash. We manage our short-term liquidity position to ensure the availability of a
sufficient amount of liquid assets to extinguish short-term liabilities as they come due in the normal course of business, including utilizing potential sources of liquidity as disclosed
previously.
      (2)    Contractholder
funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products such as interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities, including immediate annuities without
life contingencies, bank deposits and institutional products. The reserve for life-contingent contract benefits relates primarily to traditional life and immediate annuities with life
contingencies. These amounts reflect the present value of estimated cash payments to be made to contractholders and policyholders. Certain of these contracts, such as immediate annuities without life
contingencies and institutional products, involve payment obligations where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to (i) policies or
contracts where we are currently making payments and will continue to do so and (ii) contracts where the timing of a portion or all of the payments has been determined by the contract.
Extendible funding agreements backing medium-term notes outstanding are reflected in the table above at the contractually specified first maturity dates or the maturity date accelerated in
accordance with the contractholders' election to not extend the initial maturity date. Other contracts, such as interest-sensitive life, fixed deferred annuities, traditional life and immediate
annuities with life contingencies and voluntary accident and health insurance, involve payment obligations where a portion or all of the amount and timing of future payments is uncertain. For these
contracts and bank deposits, the Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until (i) the occurrence of an insurable event such as death or illness or (ii) the
occurrence of a payment triggering event such as the surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, which is outside of the control of the Company. We have estimated the timing of
payments related to these contracts based on historical experience and our expectation of    
  131  

future
payment patterns. Uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, customer lapse and withdrawal activity, estimated additional deposits for
interest-sensitive life contracts, and renewal premium for life policies, which may significantly impact both the timing and amount of future payments. Such cash outflows reflect adjustments for the
estimated timing of mortality, retirement, and other appropriate factors, but are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table
exceeds the corresponding liabilities of $61.98 billion for contractholder funds and $13.21 billion for reserve for life-contingent contract benefits as included in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2007. The liability amount in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position reflects the discounting for interest as well as
adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above.   

(3)    Our
payment obligations relating to long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating leases, unconditional purchase obligations and pension and OPEB contributions are
managed within the structure of our intermediate to long-term liquidity management program. Amount differs from the balance presented on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
as of December 31, 2007 because the long-term debt amount above includes interest.
      (4)    The
pension plans' obligations in the next 12 months represent our planned contributions, and the remaining years' contributions are projected based on the average remaining
service period using the current underfunded status of the plans. The OPEB plans' obligations are estimated based on the expected benefits to be paid. These liabilities are discounted with respect to
interest, and as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount of $1.08 billion included in other liabilities and accrued
expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
      (5)    Reserve
for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including claims that have been incurred but
not reported as of the balance sheet date. We have estimated the timing of these payments based on our historical experience and our expectation of future payment patterns. However, the timing of
these payments may vary significantly from the amounts shown above, especially for IBNR claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts which are our best estimates. The
reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense includes loss reserves related to asbestos and environmental claims as of December 31, 2007, of $2.05 billion and
$340 million, respectively.
      (6)    Other
liabilities primarily include accrued expenses and certain benefit obligations and claim payments and other checks outstanding. Certain of these long-term
liabilities are discounted with respect to interest, as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount of $4.21 billion.
      (7)    Balance
sheet liabilities not included in the table above include unearned and advance premiums of $11.12 billion and deferred tax liabilities netted in the net deferred tax
asset of $467 million. These items were excluded as they do not meet the definition of a contractual liability as we are not contractually obligated to pay these amounts to third parties.
Rather, they represent an accounting mechanism that allows us to present our financial statements on an accrual basis. In addition, other liabilities of $343 million were not included in the
table above because they did not represent a contractual obligation or the amount and timing of their eventual payment was sufficiently uncertain.
      (8)    Net
unrecognized tax benefits relates to Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). We believe
it is reasonably possible that the FIN 48 liability balance will be reduced by $76 million within the next 12 months with the resolution of an outstanding issue resulting from the
Internal Revenue Service examination of the 2003 and 2004 tax years. The resolution of this obligation may be for an amount less than what we have accrued.    

          Our contractual commitments as of December 31, 2007 and the payments due by period are shown in the following table.   

Contractual commitments represent investment commitments such as private placements, private equities and mortgage loans.   

          We
have agreements in place for services we conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. All material inter-company
transactions have appropriately been eliminated in consolidation. Inter-company transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate departments of insurance
as required.   

  132  

For
a more detailed discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

   ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT     

          Allstate has been working on enterprise risk management ("ERM") for six years, establishing processes and infrastructure to effectively manage risk within our
tolerances while optimizing returns. We have a senior management advisory committee called the Enterprise Risk   Return Council ("ERRC") which is responsible for overseeing risks on an
integrated basis across subsidiaries and various areas of responsibility within Allstate. Enterprise risk management is a disciplined, holistic, and interactive approach to risk that is conducted
under an overall framework which:   

Provides
additional insight when setting strategy across the Allstate enterprise
           Identifies
potential events that could have a significant impact on Allstate
           Manages
risk and proactively optimizes our overall profile consistent with Allstate's risk appetite
           Provides
greater assurance of achieving Allstate's objectives
           Allows
Allstate to pursue a return commensurate with the risks taken    

Risk
management is primarily executed within the business unit where the risk is undertaken. Effective risk management requires an infrastructure that includes appropriate governance
policies, stochastic modeling software, tolerances and limits; consistent risk management practices, which include risk identification, evaluation, prioritization, treatment and monitoring; and
effective communication and reporting. Managers in the various business units are responsible for managing, measuring, evaluating, and reporting risks as appropriate in their respective areas within
the risk appetite of the overall enterprise. This would include items such as establishing risk oversight committees that develop and monitor appropriate tolerances and the measurement of exposure to
any catastrophe; managing the impacts to invested assets and liabilities related to changes in interest rates and equity markets through value at risk, duration and convexity metrics; and evaluating
risks related to credit exposures through a credit value at risk measurement.   

          As
appropriate, consistent enterprise-wide measurement standards and limits are applied to these key risks and are integrated into such processes as strategic and financial
planning, capital management, and enterprise risk reporting. Business unit measures and practices are aligned with the overall enterprise standards.   

          For
the enterprise, we are utilizing an internally developed enterprise stochastic model as a significant component in our determination of an appropriate level of economic capital
needed, given a defined tolerance for risk. The economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature and interaction of the risks inherent in our various businesses. Economic capital
modeling capabilities enable us to more fully understand and optimize risk/reward tradeoffs across the portfolio of businesses and
various risks. These capabilities allow us to view risk and return decisions holistically which may provide opportunities for enhanced returns to shareholders at similar or lower levels of risk than
might be achieved if this modeling were to be only applied at the business unit level. Areas we are pursuing that may provide such opportunities include an enterprise strategic asset allocation in our
investment portfolio, more emphasis on total return economics in addition to traditional net credit spreads, and the creation of investment subsidiaries to pursue opportunistic investments outside the
invested assets typically utilized in our insurance operations. We have established an internal capital support agreement between certain legal entities to more fully capitalize on diversification
benefits within the enterprise.   

  133  

REGULATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

          We are subject to extensive regulation and we are involved in various legal and regulatory actions, all of which have an effect on specific aspects of our
business. For a detailed discussion of the legal and regulatory actions in which we are involved, see Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

   PENDING ACCOUNTING STANDARDS     

          There are several pending accounting standards that we have not implemented either because the standard has not been finalized or the implementation date has not
yet occurred. For a discussion of these pending standards, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

          The
effect of implementing certain accounting standards on our financial results and financial condition is often based in part on market conditions at the time of implementation of the
standard and other factors we are unable to determine prior to implementation. For this reason, we are sometimes unable to estimate the effect of certain pending accounting standards until the
relevant authoritative body finalizes these standards or until we implement them.   

  134  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     

          Information required for Item 7A is incorporated by reference to the material under the caption "Market Risk" in Part II, Item 7 of this
report.   

   Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

Page    

Consolidated Statements of Operations  
     
  136  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
     
  137  

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position  
     
  138  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity  
     
  139  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
     
  140  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes)  

141  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

225  

135  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  136  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  137  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  138  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  139  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  140  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   1.     General     

Basis of presentation     

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The Allstate Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, primarily Allstate
Insurance Company ("AIC"), a property-liability insurance company with various property-liability and life and investment subsidiaries, including Allstate Life Insurance Company ("ALIC") (collectively
referred to as the "Company" or "Allstate"). These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
("GAAP"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

To
conform to the current year presentation, certain amounts in the prior years' consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified.   

          The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

   Nature of operations     

          Allstate is engaged, principally in the United States, in the property-liability insurance, life insurance, retirement and investment product business. Allstate's
primary business is the sale of private passenger auto and homeowner's insurance. The Company also sells several other personal property and casualty insurance products, life insurance, annuities,
funding agreements, and select commercial property and casualty coverages. Allstate primarily distributes its products through exclusive agencies, financial specialists and independent agencies.   

          The
Allstate Protection segment principally sells private passenger auto and homeowner's insurance, with earned premiums accounting for approximately 74% of Allstate's 2007 consolidated
revenues. Allstate was the country's second largest insurer for both private passenger auto and homeowners insurance as of December 31, 2006. Allstate Protection, through several companies, is
authorized to sell certain property-liability products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The Company is also authorized to sell certain insurance products in Canada. For
2007, the top geographic locations for premiums earned by the Allstate Protection segment were California, New York, Texas, Florida and Pennsylvania. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5%
of premiums earned for Allstate Protection.   

          Allstate
has exposure to catastrophes, an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance business, which have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to material year-to-year
fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial position (see Note 7). The level of catastrophic loss and weather-related losses (wind, hail, lightning and freeze losses)
experienced in any year cannot be predicted and could be material to results of operations and financial position. The Company considers the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to
hurricanes to generally be major metropolitan centers along the eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. The Company considers the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to
earthquakes and fires following earthquakes to be major metropolitan areas near fault lines in the states of California, Oregon, Washington, South Carolina, Missouri, Kentucky and Tennessee. The
Company also has exposure to asbestos and environmental claims and other discontinued lines exposures (see Note 13).   

  141  

The
Allstate Financial segment sells life insurance, retirement and investment products and voluntary accident and health insurance products to individual and institutional customers.
The principal individual products are fixed annuities; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. The principal institutional product is
funding agreements backing medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual investors. Banking products and services are also offered to customers through the Allstate Bank.   

Allstate
Financial, through several companies, is authorized to sell life insurance and retirement products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands and Guam. For 2007, the top geographic locations for statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment were Delaware, California, New York and Florida. No other
jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for Allstate Financial. Allstate Financial distributes its products to individuals through multiple
distribution channels, including Allstate exclusive agencies, which include exclusive financial specialists, independent agents (including master brokerage agencies and workplace enrolling agents),
and financial service firms, such as banks, broker-dealers and specialized structured settlement brokers. Allstate Bank products can also be obtained directly through the Internet and a toll-free
number.   

          The
Company monitors economic and regulatory developments that have the potential to impact its business. The ability of banks to affiliate with insurers may have a material adverse
effect on all of the Company's product lines by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors. The Company currently benefits from agreements with financial
services entities that market and distribute its products; change in control of these non-affiliated entities could negatively impact the Company's sales. Furthermore, federal and state
laws and regulations affect the taxation of insurance companies and life insurance and annuity products. Congress and various state legislatures have considered proposals that, if enacted, could
impose a greater tax burden on the Company or could have an adverse impact on the tax treatment of some insurance products offered by Allstate Financial, including favorable policyholder tax treatment
currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Legislation that reduced the federal income tax rates applicable to certain dividends and capital gains realized by individuals, or other
proposals if adopted, that reduce the taxation or permit the establishment of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance or annuities could have an adverse effect on the
Company's financial position or Allstate Financial's ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate
tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.   

   2.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

   Investments     

          Fixed income securities include bonds, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and redeemable preferred stocks.
Fixed income securities may be sold prior to their contractual maturity, are designated as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The fair value of fixed income securities is based upon
observable market quotations, other market observable data or is derived from such quotations and market observable data. The fair value of privately placed fixed income securities is generally based
on widely accepted pricing valuation models, which are developed internally. The valuation models use security specific information such as the credit rating of the issuer, industry sector of the
issuer, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, coupon rate, quoted market prices of comparable securities and estimated liquidity premiums to determine security
specific credit spreads. These spreads are then adjusted for illiquidity based on historical analysis and broker surveys. The difference between amortized cost and fair value, net of deferred income
taxes, certain life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs, certain deferred sales   

  142  

inducement
costs, and certain reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Cash received from calls, principal
payments and make-whole payments is reflected as a component of proceeds from sales and cash received from maturities and pay-downs is reflected as a component of investment
collections within the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   

          Reported
in fixed income securities are hybrid securities which have characteristics of fixed income securities and equity securities. Many of these securities have attributes most
similar to those of fixed income securities such as a stated interest rate, a mandatory redemption date or a punitive interest rate step-up feature which, in most cases would compel the
issuer to redeem the security at a specified call date. Hybrid securities are carried at fair value and amounted to $2.81 billion and $2.23 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.   

          Equity
securities include common and non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate investment trust equity investments. Common and non-redeemable preferred
stocks and real estate investment trust equity investments are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The difference between cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes,
is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.   

          Mortgage
loans are carried at outstanding principal balances, net of unamortized premium or discount and valuation allowances. Valuation allowances are established for impaired loans
when it is probable that contractual principal and interest will not be collected. Valuation allowances for impaired loans reduce the carrying value to the fair value of the collateral or the present
value of the loan's expected future repayment cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate.   

          Investments
in limited partnership interests, including certain interests in limited liability companies and funds, and where the Company's interest is so minor that it exercises
virtually no influence over operating and financial policies are accounted for in accordance with the cost method of accounting; otherwise, investments in limited partnership interests are accounted
for in accordance with the equity method of accounting.   

          Short-term
investments are carried at cost or amortized cost that approximates fair value. Other investments consist primarily of policy loans and bank loans. Bank loans are comprised
primarily of senior secured corporate loans which are carried at amortized cost. Policy loans are carried at the respective unpaid principal balances.   

          In
connection with the Company's securities lending business activities, funds received in connection with securities repurchase agreements, cash collateral received from counterparties
related to derivative transactions and securities purchased under agreements to resell are invested and classified as short-term investments or fixed income securities available for sale as
applicable. For the Company's securities lending business activities and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the Company records an offsetting liability in other liabilities and accrued
expenses for the Company's obligation to return the collateral or funds received.   

          Investment
income consists primarily of interest and dividends, income from limited partnership interests and income from certain derivative transactions. Interest is recognized on an
accrual basis using the effective yield method and dividends are recorded at the ex-dividend date. Interest income for asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial
mortgage-backed securities is determined considering estimated principal repayments obtained from widely accepted third party data sources and internal estimates. Interest income on certain beneficial
interests in securitized financial assets is determined using the prospective yield method, based upon projections of expected future cash flows. For all other asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed
securities and commercial mortgage-backed   

  143  

securities,
the effective yield is recalculated on the retrospective basis. Income from investments in limited partnership interests accounted for on the cost basis is recognized upon receipt of
amounts distributed by the partnerships as income. Income from investments in limited partnership interests accounted for utilizing the equity method of accounting is recognized based on the financial
results of the entity and the Company's proportionate investment interest. Accrual of income is suspended for fixed income securities and mortgage loans that are in default or when receipt of interest
payments is in doubt.   

          Realized
capital gains and losses include gains and losses on investment dispositions, write-downs in value due to other-than-temporary declines in fair value and periodic
changes in the fair value and settlements of certain derivatives including hedge ineffectiveness. Dispositions include sales, losses recognized in anticipation of dispositions and other transactions
such as calls and prepayments. Realized capital gains and losses on investment dispositions are determined on a specific identification basis.   

The
Company recognizes other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed income securities, equity securities and short-term investments when the decline in fair value is
deemed other-than-temporary (see Note 5).   

   Derivative and embedded derivative financial instruments     

          Derivative financial instruments include swaps, futures (interest rate and commodity), options (including swaptions), interest rate caps and floors, warrants,
certain forward contracts for purchases of to-be-announced ("TBA") mortgage securities, forward contracts to hedge foreign currency risk, certain investment risk transfer reinsurance
agreements, forward sale commitments and certain bond forward purchase commitments, mortgage funding commitments and mortgage forward sale commitments. Derivatives that are required to be separated
from the host instrument and accounted for as derivative financial instruments ("subject to bifurcation") are embedded in convertible and equity-indexed fixed income securities, equity-indexed life
and annuity contracts, reinsured variable annuity contracts, and certain funding agreements (see Note 6).   

          All
derivatives are accounted for on a fair value basis and reported as other investments, other assets, other liabilities and accrued expenses or contractholder funds. Embedded
derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are also accounted for on a fair value basis and are reported together with the host contract. The change in the fair value of derivatives embedded in
certain fixed income securities and subject to bifurcation is reported in realized capital gains and losses. The change in the fair value of derivatives embedded in liabilities and subject to
bifurcation is reported in life and annuity contract benefits, interest credited to contractholder funds or realized capital gains and losses.   

          When
derivatives meet specific criteria, they may be designated as accounting hedges and accounted for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or foreign currency cash flow
hedges. The hedged item may be either all or a specific portion of a recognized asset, liability or an unrecognized firm commitment attributable to a particular risk. At the inception of the hedge,
the Company formally documents the hedging relationship and risk management objective and strategy. The documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature of the risk being
hedged and the methodology used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item's fair value attributable to the hedged risk. In the case
of a cash flow hedge, this documentation includes the exposure to changes in the hedged item's or transaction's variability in cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The Company does not exclude
any component of the change in fair value of the hedging instrument from the effectiveness assessment. At each reporting date, the Company confirms that the hedging instrument continues to be highly
effective in offsetting the hedged risk. Ineffectiveness in fair value hedges and cash flow hedges is reported in realized capital gains and losses. The hedge ineffectiveness reported in realized
capital gains and losses amounted to losses of $13 million, $7 million and $7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  144  

Fair value hedges         The Company designates certain of its interest rate and foreign currency swap contracts and certain
investment risk transfer reinsurance agreements as fair value hedges when the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the risk of changes in the fair value of the hedged item.   

For
hedging instruments used in fair value hedges, when the hedged items are investment assets or a portion thereof, the change in the fair value of the derivatives is reported in net
investment income, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged items. The change in the fair value of hedging instruments used in fair value hedges of contractholder funds liabilities or
a portion thereof is reported in interest credited to contractholder funds, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged item. Accrued periodic settlements on swaps are reported together
with the changes in fair value of the swaps in net investment income or interest credited to contractholder funds. The amortized cost for fixed income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans
or the carrying value of the hedged liability is adjusted for the change in the fair value of the hedged risk.   

Cash flow hedges         The Company designates certain of its foreign currency swap contracts and bond forward commitments as cash
flow hedges when the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the exposure of variations in cash flows for the hedged risk that could affect net income. The Company's cash flow exposure
may be associated with an existing asset, liability or a forecasted transaction including the anticipated issuance of corporate debt. Anticipated transactions must be probable of occurrence and their
significant terms and specific characteristics must be identified.   

          For
hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value of the derivatives are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts are reclassified to net
investment income, realized capital gains and losses or interest expense as the hedged or forecasted transaction affects net income. Accrued periodic settlements on derivatives used in cash flow
hedges are reported in net investment income. The amount reported in accumulated other comprehensive income for a hedged transaction is limited to the lesser of the cumulative gain or loss on the
derivative less the amount reclassified to net income; or the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative needed to offset the cumulative change in the expected future cash flows on the hedged
transaction from inception of the hedge less the derivative gain or loss previously reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income. If the Company expects at any time that the
loss reported in accumulated other comprehensive income would lead to a net loss on the combination of the hedging instrument and the hedged transaction which may not be recoverable, a loss is
recognized immediately in realized capital gains and losses. If an impairment loss is recognized on an asset or an additional obligation is incurred on a liability involved in a hedge transaction, any
offsetting gain in accumulated other comprehensive income is reclassified and reported together with the impairment loss or recognition of the obligation.   

           Termination of hedge accounting         If, subsequent to entering into a hedge transaction, the derivative becomes ineffective
(including if the hedged item is sold or otherwise extinguished, the occurrence of a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, or the hedged asset becomes other-
than-temporarily impaired), the Company may terminate the derivative position. The Company may also terminate derivative instruments or redesignate them as non-hedge as a
result of other events or circumstances. If the derivative financial instrument is not terminated when a fair value hedge is no longer effective, the future gains and losses recognized on the
derivative are reported in realized capital gains and losses. When a fair value hedge is no longer effective, is redesignated as non-hedge or when the derivative has been terminated, the
fair value gain or loss on the hedged asset, liability or portion thereof which has already been recognized in income while the hedge was in place and used to adjust the amortized cost for fixed
income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans or the carrying amount for the liability, is amortized over the remaining life of the hedged asset, liability, or portion   

  145  

thereof,
and reflected in net investment income, interest credited to contractholder funds or interest expense beginning in the period that hedge accounting is no longer applied. If the hedged item in
a fair value hedge is an asset which has become other-than-temporarily impaired, or is a liability which an increase has been recognized for the obligation, the adjustment made to the
amortized cost for fixed income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans or the carrying amount for the liability is subject to the accounting policies applied to
other-than-temporarily impaired assets.   

          When
a derivative financial instrument used in a cash flow hedge of an existing asset or liability is no longer effective or is terminated, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative
is reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income as the hedged risk impacts net income, beginning in the period hedge accounting is no longer applied or the derivative
instrument is terminated. If the derivative financial instrument is not terminated when a cash flow hedge is no longer effective, the future gains and losses recognized on the derivative are reported
in realized capital gains and losses. When a derivative financial instrument used in a cash flow hedge of a forecasted transaction is terminated because the forecasted transaction is no longer
probable, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative is immediately reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to realized capital gains and losses in the period that hedge accounting
is no longer applied. If a cash flow hedge is no longer effective, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative during the period the hedge was effective is reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income to net income as the remaining hedged item affects net income.   

           Non-hedge derivative financial instruments         The Company also has certain derivatives that are used in interest
rate, equity price, commodity price and credit risk management strategies for which hedge accounting is not applied. These derivatives primarily consist of certain interest rate swap agreements,
equity, commodity and financial futures contracts, interest rate cap and floor agreements, swaptions, foreign currency forward and option contracts, certain forward contracts for TBA mortgage
securities and credit default swaps.   

          The
Company replicates fixed income securities using a combination of a credit default swap and one or more highly rated fixed income securities to synthetically replicate the economic
characteristics of one or
more cash market securities. Fixed income securities are replicated when they are either unavailable in the cash market or are more economical to acquire in synthetic form.   

          The
Company enters into commodity-based investments through the use of excess return swaps whose return is tied to a commodity-based index. The Company also uses certain commodity
futures to periodically rebalance its exposure under commodity-indexed excess return swaps as they are typically very liquid and highly correlated with the commodity-based index.   

          Based
upon the type of derivative instrument and strategy, the income statement effects of these derivatives are reported in a single line item with the results of the associated risk.
Therefore, the derivatives' fair value gains and losses and accrued periodic settlements are recognized together in one of the following during the reporting period: net investment income, realized
capital gains and losses, operating costs and expenses, life and annuity contract benefits or interest credited to contractholder funds. Cash flows from embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation and
derivatives receiving hedge accounting are reported consistently with the host contracts and hedged risks respectively within the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash flows from other
derivatives are reported in cash flows from investing activities within the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.   

   Securities loaned and security repurchase and resale     

          The Company's business activities include securities lending transactions, securities sold under agreements to repurchase ("repurchase agreements"), and
securities purchased under agreements to   

  146  

resell
("resale agreements"), which are used primarily to generate net investment income. The proceeds received from repurchase agreements also provide a source of liquidity. For repurchase agreements
and securities lending transactions used to generate net investment income, the proceeds received are reinvested in short-term investments or fixed income securities. These transactions are short-term
in nature, usually 30 days or less.   

          The
Company receives collateral for securities loaned in an amount generally equal to 102% and 105% of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, respectively, and records the
related obligations to return the collateral in other liabilities and accrued expenses. The carrying value of these obligations approximates fair value because of their relatively short-term nature.
The Company monitors the market value of securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains additional collateral as necessary under the terms of the agreements to mitigate counterparty credit risk. The
Company maintains the right and ability to redeem the securities loaned on short notice. Substantially all of the Company's securities loaned are placed with large brokerage firms.   

          The
Company's policy is to take possession or control of securities under resale agreements. Securities to be repurchased under repurchase agreements are the same, or substantially the
same, as the securities transferred. The Company's obligations to return the funds received under repurchase agreements are carried at the amount at which the securities will subsequently be
reacquired, including accrued interest, as specified in the respective agreements and are classified as other liabilities and accrued expenses. The carrying value of these obligations approximates
fair value because of their relatively short-term nature.   

   Recognition of premium revenues and contract charges, and related benefits and interest credited     

          Property-liability premiums are deferred and earned on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. The portion of premiums written applicable to the
unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums. Premium installment receivables, net, represent premiums written and not yet collected, net of an allowance for uncollectible
premiums. The Company regularly evaluates premium installment receivables and adjusts its valuation allowances as appropriate. The valuation allowance for uncollectible premium installment receivables
was $68 million and $56 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          Traditional
life insurance products consist principally of products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits, primarily term and whole life insurance products. Premiums from these
products are recognized as revenue when due from policyholders. Benefits are reflected in life and annuity contract benefits and recognized in relation to premiums so that profits are recognized over
the life of the policy.   

          Immediate
annuities with life contingencies, including certain structured settlement annuities, provide insurance protection over a period that extends beyond the period during which
premiums are collected. Premiums from these products are recognized as revenue when received at the inception of the contract. Benefits and expenses are recognized in relation to premiums so that
profits are recognized over the life of the contract.   

  147  

Interest-sensitive life contracts, such as universal life, single premium life and equity-indexed life are insurance contracts whose terms are not fixed and guaranteed. The terms that
may be changed include premiums paid by the contractholder, interest credited to the contractholder account balance and contract charges assessed against the contractholder account balance. Premiums
from these contracts are reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balance for the cost of insurance (mortality risk),
contract administration and early surrender. These contract charges are recognized as revenue when assessed against the contractholder account balance. Life and annuity contract benefits include
life-contingent benefit payments in excess of the contractholder account balance.   

          Contracts
that do not subject the Company to significant risk arising from mortality or morbidity are referred to as investment contracts. Fixed annuities, including market value
adjusted annuities, equity-indexed annuities and immediate annuities without life contingencies, and funding agreements (primarily backing medium-term notes) are considered investment contracts.
Consideration received for such contracts is reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges for investment contracts consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balance for
maintenance, administration and surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates, and are recognized when assessed against the contractholder account balance.   

          Interest
credited to contractholder funds represents interest accrued or paid on interest-sensitive life contracts and investment contracts. Crediting rates for certain fixed annuities
and interest-sensitive life contracts are adjusted periodically by the Company to reflect current market conditions subject to contractually guaranteed minimum rates. Crediting rates for indexed
annuities, indexed life contracts and indexed funding agreements are generally based on a specified interest rate index, such as LIBOR, or an equity index, such as the S P 500. Interest
credited also includes amortization of deferred sales inducement ("DSI") expenses. DSI is amortized into interest credited using the same method used to amortize deferred policy acquisition costs
("DAC").   

          Contract
charges for variable life and variable annuity products consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account values for contract maintenance, administration, mortality,
expense and early surrender. Contract benefits incurred include guaranteed minimum death, income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits. Subsequent to the Allstate Financial segment's disposal of
substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential in 2006 (see Note 3), the contract charges and contract benefits related thereto are reported
net of reinsurance ceded.   

   Deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs     

          Costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring property-liability insurance, life insurance and investment contracts are deferred and recorded as
DAC. These costs are principally agents' and brokers' remuneration, premium taxes, inspection costs, and certain underwriting and direct mail solicitation expenses. DSI costs, which are deferred and
recorded as other assets, relate to sales inducements offered on sales to new customers, principally on annuities and primarily in the form of additional credits to the customer's account value or
enhancements to interest credited for a specified period, which are in excess of the rates currently being credited to similar contracts without sales inducements. All other acquisition costs are
expensed as incurred and included in operating costs and expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. DAC associated with property-liability insurance is amortized to income as premiums are
earned, typically over periods of six or twelve months, and is included in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Future investment income is
considered in determining the recoverability of DAC. Amortization of DAC associated with life insurance and investment contracts is described in more detail below. All life insurance and investment
contract DAC is included in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. DSI is reported in other assets and amortized to income using the same
methodology and assumptions as DAC and is included in interest credited to   

  148  

contractholder
funds on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. DAC and DSI are periodically reviewed for recoverability and adjusted if necessary.   

          For
traditional life insurance, DAC is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Assumptions used in the
amortization of DAC and reserve calculations are established at the time the policy is issued and are generally not revised during the life of the policy. Any deviations from projected business in
force resulting from actual policy terminations differing from expected levels and any estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events
occur. Generally, the amortization period for these contracts approximates the estimated lives of the policies.   

          For
interest-sensitive life, annuities and other investment contracts, DAC and DSI are amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which
includes both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on
the prior DAC balance and uses rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating estimates of
customer surrender rates, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized over the surrender charge period. The rate of amortization during this term is
matched to the pattern of total gross profits.   

          AGP
and EGP consists primarily of the following components: the excess of contract charges for the cost of insurance over mortality and other benefits; investment income and realized
capital gains and losses over interest credited; and surrender and other contract charges over maintenance expenses. The
principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are investment returns, including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to policyholders,
the effect of any hedges used, persistency, mortality and expenses.   

          Changes
in the amount or timing of EGP result in adjustments to the cumulative amortization of DAC and DSI. All such adjustments are reflected in the current results of operations.   

          The
Company performs quarterly reviews of DAC and DSI recoverability for interest-sensitive life, annuities and other investment contracts in the aggregate using current assumptions. If
a change in the amount of EGP is significant, it could result in the unamortized DAC and DSI not being recoverable, resulting in a charge which is included as a component of amortization of deferred
policy acquisition costs or interest credited to contractholder funds, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

          Any
amortization of DAC or DSI that would result from changes in unrealized gains or losses had those gains or losses actually been realized during the reporting period is recorded net
of tax in other comprehensive income.   

          The
costs assigned to the right to receive future cash flows from certain business purchased from other insurers are also classified as DAC in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. The costs capitalized represent the present value of future profits expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts acquired. These costs are amortized as profits emerge over the lives
of the acquired business and are periodically evaluated for recoverability. The present value of future profits was $99 million and $112 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Amortization expense on the present value of future profits was $12 million, $41 million and $16 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.   

          Customers
of the Company may exchange one insurance policy or investment contract for another offered by the Company, or make modifications to an existing investment, life or
property-liability contract   

  149  

issued
by the Company. These transactions are identified as internal replacements for accounting purposes. Internal replacement transactions that are determined to result in replacement contracts that
are substantially unchanged from the replaced contract are accounted for as continuations of the replaced contracts. Unamortized DAC and DSI related to the replaced contract continue to be deferred
and amortized in connection with the replacement contract. For interest-sensitive life insurance and investment contracts, the EGP of the replacement contract is treated as revisions to the EGP of the
replaced contract in the determination of amortization of DAC and DSI. For traditional life and property-liability insurance policies, any changes to unamortized DAC and benefit reserves that result
from the replacement contract are treated as prospective revisions. Any costs associated with the issuance of the replacement contract are characterized as maintenance costs and expensed as incurred.   

          Internal
replacement transactions that are determined to result in a substantial change to the replaced contracts are accounted for as an extinguishment of the replaced contracts, and
any unamortized DAC and DSI related to the replaced contracts are eliminated with a corresponding charge to the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

Reinsurance     

          In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to limit aggregate and single exposure to losses on large risks by purchasing reinsurance (see Note 9).
The Company has also used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. The amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as reinsurance
recoverables include amounts billed to reinsurers on losses paid as well as estimates of amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers on insurance liabilities and contractholder funds that have
not yet been paid. Reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses are estimated based upon assumptions consistent with those used in establishing the liabilities related to the underlying reinsured
contracts. Insurance liabilities are reported gross of reinsurance recoverables. Reinsurance premiums are generally reflected in income in a manner consistent with the recognition of premiums on the
reinsured contracts or are earned ratably over the contract period to the extent coverage remains available. Reinsurance does not extinguish the Company's primary liability under the policies written.
Therefore, the Company regularly evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers including their activities with respect to claim settlement practices and commutations, and establishes allowances
for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables as appropriate.   

   Goodwill     

          Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The Company annually evaluates goodwill
for impairment using a trading multiple analysis, which is a widely accepted valuation technique to estimate the fair value of its reporting units. The Company also reviews its goodwill for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of goodwill may exceed its implied fair value. Goodwill impairment evaluations indicated
no impairment at December 31, 2007.   

   Property and equipment     

          Property and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Included in property and equipment are capitalized costs related to computer software
licenses and software developed for internal use. These costs generally consist of certain external payroll and payroll related costs. Certain facilities and equipment held under capital leases are
also classified as property and equipment with the related lease obligations recorded as liabilities. Property and equipment depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets, generally 3 to 10 years for equipment and 40 years for real property. Depreciation expense is reported in operating costs and expenses.   

  150  

Accumulated
depreciation on property and equipment was $1.94 billion and $1.79 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Depreciation expense on property and equipment
was $224 million, $235 million and $229 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company reviews its property and equipment for
impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.   

   Income taxes     

          The income tax provision is calculated under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the difference between the financial
statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. The principal assets and liabilities giving rise to such differences are unrealized capital gains and losses on certain
investments, insurance reserves, unearned premiums, DAC and employee benefits. A deferred tax asset valuation allowance is established when there is uncertainty that such assets would be realized (see
Note 14).   

   Reserves for property liability insurance claims and claims expense and life-contingent contract benefits     

          The reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense is the estimate of amounts necessary to settle all reported and unreported claims for the ultimate
cost of insured property-liability losses, based upon the facts of each case and the Company's experience with similar cases. Estimated amounts of salvage and subrogation are deducted from the reserve
for claims and claims expense. The establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed
and updated, using the most current information available. Any resulting reestimates are reflected in current operations (see Note 7).   

          The
reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under insurance policies including traditional life insurance, life-contingent fixed annuities and
voluntary health products, is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses (see Note 8). These
assumptions, which for traditional life insurance, life-contingent fixed annuities and voluntary health products are applied using the net level premium method, include provisions for
adverse deviation and generally vary by characteristics such as type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. To the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a
premium deficiency had those gains actually been realized, the related increase in reserves for certain immediate annuities with life contingencies is recorded net of tax as a reduction of unrealized
net capital gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income.   

   Contractholder funds     

          Contractholder funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products, such as interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities, bank deposits and
funding agreements. Contractholder funds are comprised primarily of deposits received and interest credited to the benefit of the contractholder less surrenders and withdrawals, mortality charges and
administrative expenses (see Note 8). Contractholder funds also include reserves for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance and certain fixed annuity contracts and reserves
for certain guarantees on reinsured variable annuity contracts.   

   Separate accounts     

          Separate accounts assets and liabilities are carried at fair value. The assets of the separate accounts are legally segregated and available only to settle
separate account contract obligations. Separate accounts liabilities represent the contractholders' claims to the related assets. Investment income and   

  151  

realized
capital gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contractholders and therefore, are not included in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. Deposits to
and surrenders and withdrawals from the separate accounts are reflected in separate accounts liabilities and are not included in consolidated cash flows.   

Absent
any contract provision wherein the Company provides a guarantee, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts'
funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. Substantially all of the Company's variable annuity business was reinsured to Prudential in 2006.   

   Deferred Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") expense     

          Deferred ESOP expense represents the remaining unrecognized cost of shares acquired by the Allstate ESOP to pre-fund a portion of the Company's contribution to
The Savings and Profit Sharing Plan of Allstate Employees (see Note 16).   

Equity incentive plans     

          The Company currently has equity incentive plans that permit the Company to grant nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted or unrestricted
shares of the Company's stock and restricted stock units ("equity awards") to certain employees and directors of the Company (see Note 17). The Company recognizes the fair value of equity
awards computed at the award date over the period in which the requisite service is rendered. The Company uses a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of employee stock options.   

Off-balance-sheet financial instruments     

          Commitments to invest, commitments to purchase private placement securities, commitments to extend mortgage loans, financial guarantees and credit guarantees have
off-balance-sheet risk because their contractual amounts are not recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (see Note 6 and Note 13).   

   Consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs")     

          The Company consolidates VIEs when it is the primary beneficiary. A primary beneficiary is the variable interest that will absorb a majority of the expected
losses or receive a majority of the entity's expected returns, or both (see Note 11).   

   Foreign currency translation     

          The local currency of the Company's foreign subsidiaries is deemed to be the functional currency in which these subsidiaries operate. The financial statements of
the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of a reporting period for assets and liabilities and at average exchange rates during the
period for results of operations. The unrealized gains and losses from the translation of the net assets are recorded as unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments and included in accumulated
other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Changes in unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are included in other comprehensive income. Gains and
losses from foreign currency transactions are reported in operating costs and expenses and have not been significant.   

  152  

Earnings per share     

          Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed based on weighted
average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding. For Allstate, dilutive potential common shares consist of outstanding stock options and restricted stock units.   

          The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, is presented in the following table.   

The effect of dilutive potential securities does not include the effect of options with an antidilutive effect on earnings per share because their exercise prices
exceed the average market price of Allstate common shares during the period or for which the unrecognized compensation cost would have an anti-dilutive effect. Options to purchase
8.9 million, 0.4 million and 0.5 million Allstate common shares, with exercise prices ranging from $52.23 to $65.38, $52.23 to $62.42 and $56.25 to $61.90, were outstanding at
December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share in those years.   

   Adopted accounting standards     

   Statement of Position 05-1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts
("SOP 05-1")     

          In October 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") issued SOP 05-1. SOP 05-1 provides
accounting guidance for DAC associated with internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS")
No. 97, "Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments".
SOP 05-1 defines an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occurs through the exchange of an existing contract for a new
contract, or by amendment, endorsement or rider to an existing contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within an existing contract. The Company adopted the provisions of
SOP 05-1 on January 1, 2007 for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The adoption resulted in a $9 million
after-tax reduction to retained income to reflect the impact on EGP from the changes in accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer qualify for deferral under
SOP 05-1 and a reduction of DAC and DSI balances of $13 million pre-tax as of January 1, 2007.   

  153  

SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140 ("SFAS No. 155")     

In February 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 155, which permits the fair value remeasurement at the date of adoption
of any hybrid financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation under paragraph 12 or 13 of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"); clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS No. 133; establishes a
requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or hybrid financial instruments that contain embedded derivatives requiring
bifurcation; and clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 155 on January 1,
2007, which were effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a remeasurement event occurring after the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning after
September 15, 2006. The Company elected not to remeasure existing hybrid financial instruments that contained embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation at the date of adoption pursuant to
paragraph 12 or 13 of SFAS No. 133. The adoption of SFAS No. 155 did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

   FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 and FASB Staff Position No.
FIN 48-1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48 ("FIN 48")     

          The FASB issued the interpretation in July 2006 and the staff position in May 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in an entity's financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes". FIN 48 requires an entity to recognize the tax benefit of uncertain tax
positions only when it is more likely than not, based on the position's technical merits, that the position would be sustained upon examination by the respective taxing authorities. The tax benefit is
measured as the largest benefit that is more than fifty-percent likely of being realized upon final settlement with the respective taxing authorities. On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted
the provisions of FIN 48, which were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. No cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle or adjustment to the liability
for unrecognized tax benefits was recognized as a result of the adoption of FIN 48. Accordingly, the adoption of FIN 48 did not have an effect on the results of operations or financial
position of the Company (see Note 14).   

   SFAS No. 158, Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) ("SFAS
No. 158")     

          SFAS No. 158 required, as of December 31, 2006 for calendar year-end companies, recognition in the statements of financial position of
the over or underfunded status of defined pension and other postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation ("PBO") for
pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ("APBO") for other postretirement benefit plans. This effectively required the recognition of all previously unrecognized actuarial
gains and losses and prior service costs as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, at the date of adoption. In addition, SFAS No. 158 required, on a prospective
basis, that the actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs and credits that arise during any reporting period, but are not recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost, be recognized
as a component of other comprehensive income and that disclosure in the notes to the financial statements include the anticipated impact on the net periodic benefit cost of the actuarial gains and
losses and the prior service costs and credits previously deferred and recognized, net of tax, as a component of other comprehensive income. The Company adopted the funded status provisions of SFAS
No. 158 as of   

  154  

December 31,
2006. The impact on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of adopting SFAS No. 158, including the inter-related impact to the minimum pension liability, was a
decrease in shareholders' equity of $1.11 billion. In addition to the impacts of reporting the funded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans and the related additional
disclosures, SFAS No. 158 also required reporting entities to conform plan measurement dates with their fiscal year-end reporting date. The effective date of the guidance relating
to the measurement date of the plans is for years ending after December 15, 2008. The Company remeasured its plans as of January 1, 2008 to transition to a December 31 measurement
date in 2008. As a result, the Company will record a decrease of $13 million, net of tax, to beginning retained earnings in 2008 representing the net periodic benefit cost for the period
between October 31, 2007 and December 31, 2007 and a decrease of $80 million, net of tax, to beginning accumulated other comprehensive income in 2008 to reflect changes in the fair value
of plan assets and the benefit obligations between October 31, 2007 and January 1, 2008, and for amortization of actuarial gains and losses and prior service cost between
October 31, 2007 and December 31, 2007.   

   Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in
Current Year Financial Statements ("SAB 108")     

          In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB 108 to eliminate the diversity of practice in the way misstatements are quantified for purposes of assessing their
materiality in financial statements. SAB 108 was intended to eliminate the potential build up of improper amounts on the balance sheet due to the limitations of certain methods of assessing
materiality previously utilized by some reporting entities. SAB 108 established a single quantification framework wherein the significance determination is based on the effects of the
misstatements on each of the financial statements as well as the related financial statement disclosures. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of SAB 108 which were
effective for the first
fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. The adoption of SAB 108 did not have any effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

   FASB Staff Position No. FAS 115-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments ("FSP
FAS 115-1")     

          FSP FAS 115-1 nullified the guidance in paragraphs 10-18 of Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 03-1, "The Meaning
of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments" and references existing other-than-temporary impairment guidance. FSP
FAS 115-1 clarifies that an investor should recognize an impairment loss no later than when the impairment is deemed other-than-temporary, even if a decision to sell the
security has not been made, and also provides guidance on the subsequent income recognition for impaired debt securities. The Company adopted FSP FAS 115-1 as of January 1,
2006 on a prospective basis. The effects of adoption did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 ("SFAS No. 154")     

          SFAS No. 154 replaced Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes", and SFAS No. 3, "Reporting Accounting Changes
in Interim Financial Statements". SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods' financial statements for changes in accounting principle, unless determination of either the
period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change is impracticable or otherwise not required. The Company adopted SFAS No. 154 on January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS
No. 154 did not have any effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

  155  

SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("SFAS No. 123R")     

          SFAS No. 123R revised SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-based Compensation" and superseded APB Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued
to Employees". SFAS No. 123R required all share-based payment transactions to be accounted for using a fair value based method to recognize the cost of awards over the period in which the
requisite service is rendered. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective application method for adoption, and therefore the prior year results
have not been restated. The adoption impacts of SFAS No. 123R, which included the recognition of compensation expense related to options with a four year vesting requirement that were granted
in 2002 and not fully vested on January 1, 2006, were not material to the results of operations or financial position of the Company. The Company previously adopted the expense provisions of
SFAS No. 123 for awards granted or modified subsequent to January 1, 2003, which also did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123R-3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards ("FSP FAS 123R-3")     

          FSP FAS 123R-3 provided companies an option to elect an alternative calculation method for determining the pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb
tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R requires companies to calculate the pool of excess tax benefits as the net excess tax benefits that
would have qualified had the company adopted SFAS No. 123 for recognition purposes when first effective in 1995. FSP FAS 123R-3 provided an alternative calculation based on actual
increases to additional paid-in capital related to tax benefits from share-based compensation subsequent to the effective date of SFAS No. 123, less the tax on the cumulative incremental
compensation costs the company included in its pro forma net income disclosures as if the company had applied the fair-value method to all awards, less the share-based compensation costs
included in net income as reported. In conjunction with its adoption of SFAS No. 123R on January 1, 2006, the Company elected the alternative transition method described in FSP
FAS 123R-3. The effect of the transition calculation did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

FASB Staff Position Nos. FAS 106-1 and FAS 106-2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("FSP FAS 106-1" and "FSP FAS 106-2")     

          In May 2004, the FASB issued FSP FAS 106-2, which superseded FSP FAS 106-1, to provide guidance on accounting for the
effects of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("Act"). FSP FAS 106-2, which the Company adopted in the third quarter of 2004, required
reporting entities that elected deferral under FSP FAS 106-1 and were able to determine if their plans are actuarially equivalent to recognize the impact of the Act no later than
the first interim or annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2004. In January 2005, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services issued the final regulations for the Act including the
determination of actuarial equivalence. In the first quarter of 2005, the Company determined that its plans were actuarially equivalent and recognized the subsidy provided by the Act, which reduced
the Company's APBO by $115 million for benefits attributable to past service. In addition, the estimated annual net periodic postretirement benefit cost for 2005 was reduced by
$17 million, of which $8 million was amortization of the actuarial experience gain attributable to past service, $4 million was a reduction of current period service cost and
$5 million was the reduction in interest cost on the APBO (see Note 16).   

  156  

Pending accounting standards     

   SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations ("SFAS No. 141R")     

          In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R which replaces SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141"). Among other things,
SFAS No. 141R broadens the scope of SFAS No. 141 to include all transactions where an acquirer obtains control of one or more other businesses; retains the guidance to recognize
intangible assets separately from goodwill; requires, with limited exceptions, that all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including certain of those that arise from contractual contingencies,
be measured at their acquisition date fair values; requires most acquisition and restructuring-related costs to be expensed as incurred; requires that step acquisitions, once control is acquired, to
be recorded at the full amounts of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; and replaces the reduction of asset values and recognition
of negative goodwill with a requirement to recognize a gain in earnings. The provisions of SFAS No. 141R are
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and are to be applied prospectively only. Early adoption is not permitted. The Company will apply the provisions of SFAS 141R
as required when effective.   

   SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 ("SFAS No. 160")     

          In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 which clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is that portion of the subsidiary's equity
that is attributable to owners of the subsidiary other than its parent or parent's affiliates. Noncontrolling interests are required to be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements
and as such net income will include amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest with disclosure of the amounts attributable to each on the face of the consolidated
statement of operations. SFAS No. 160 requires that all changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary when control of the subsidiary is retained, be accounted for as equity
transactions. In contrast, SFAS No. 160 requires a parent to recognize a gain or loss in net income when control over a subsidiary is relinquished and the subsidiary is deconsolidated, as well
as provide certain associated expanded disclosures. SFAS No. 160 is effective as of the beginning of a reporting entity's first fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2008. Early
adoption is prohibited. SFAS No. 160 requires prospective application as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the standard is initially applied, except for the presentation and
disclosure requirements which are to be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. The Company will apply the provisions of SFAS No. 160 as required on the effective date.   

   SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109, Written Loan Commitments That are Recorded At Fair Value Through Earnings ("SAB 109")     

          In October 2007, the SEC issued SAB 109, a replacement of SAB 105, "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan Commitments". SAB 109 is
applicable to both loan commitments accounted for under SFAS No. 133, and other loan commitments for which the issuer elects fair value accounting under SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value
Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities". SAB 109 states that the expected net future cash flows related to the servicing of a loan should be included in the fair value
measurement of a loan commitment accounted for at fair value through earnings. The expected net future cash flows associated with loan servicing should be determined in accordance with the guidance in
SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities", as amended by SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets".
SAB 109 should be applied on a prospective basis to loan commitments accounted for under SFAS No. 133 that were issued or modified in fiscal quarters beginning after December 15,
2007. Earlier adoption is not permitted. The adoption of   

  157  

SAB 109
is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS No. 157")     

          In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, which redefines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements. Specifically, SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the nature of the inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability. SFAS
No. 157 applies where other accounting pronouncements require or permit fair value measurements. Additional disclosures and modifications to current fair value disclosures will be required upon
adoption of SFAS No. 157. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
No. 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157", which permits the deferral of the effective date of SFAS No. 157 to fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2008 for all nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The Company plans to
utilize the deferral for non-financial assets and liabilities. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's results of operations or
financial position.   

   SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("SFAS
No. 159")     

          In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 which provides reporting entities an option to report selected financial assets, including investment
securities designated as available for sale, and financial liabilities, including most insurance contracts, at fair value. SFAS No. 159 establishes presentation and disclosure requirements
designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement alternatives for similar types of financial assets and liabilities. The standard also requires additional
information to aid financial statement users' understanding of the impacts of a reporting entity's decision to use fair value on its earnings and requires entities to display, on the face of the
statement of financial position, the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the reporting entity has chosen to measure at fair value. SFAS No. 159 is effective as of the beginning
of a reporting entity's first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company does not expect to apply the fair value option to any existing financial assets or liabilities as of
January 1, 2008. Consequently, the initial adoption of SFAS No. 159 is expected to have no impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

SOP 07-1, Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide, Investment Companies ("the Guide") and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method
Investors for Investments in Investment Companies ("SOP 07-1")     

          In June 2007, the AICPA issued SOP 07-1 which provides guidance for determining whether an entity falls within the scope of the Guide and
whether investment company accounting should be retained by a parent company upon consolidation of an investment company subsidiary or by an equity
method investor in an investment company. SOP 07-1 was to be effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2007, however in February 2008, the FASB issued
FASB Staff Position No. SOP 07-1-1, "Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position 07-1", which amends SOP 07-1 to (1) delay
indefinitely the effective date of the SOP and (2) prohibit adoption of the SOP for an entity that did not early adopt the SOP before December 15, 2007. The Company did not early adopt
SOP 07-1. Consequently, the standard is expected to have no impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

  158  

FASB Staff Position No. FIN 39-1, Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 ("FSP FIN 39-1")     

In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1, which amends FASB Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts Related to Certain
Contracts". FSP FIN 39-1 replaces the terms "conditional contracts" and "exchange contracts" with the term "derivative instruments" and requires a reporting entity to offset fair
value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same
counterparty under the same master netting arrangement that have been offset in the statement of financial position. FSP FIN 39-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007, with early adoption permitted. The effects of applying FSP FIN 39-1, if any, are to be recorded as a change in accounting principle through retrospective
application unless such application is determined to be impractical. The adoption of FSP FIN 39-1 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or
financial position based on the current level of derivative activity.   

   3.     Dispositions     

   Variable Annuity Business     

          On June 1, 2006, in accordance with the terms of the definitive Master Transaction Agreement and related agreements (collectively the "Agreement") the
Company and its subsidiaries, ALIC and Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York ("ALNY"), completed the disposal through reinsurance of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable annuity
business to Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiary, The
Prudential Insurance Company of America (collectively "Prudential"). For Allstate, this disposal achieved the economic benefit of transferring to Prudential the future rights and obligations
associated with this business.   

          The
disposal was effected through reinsurance agreements (the "Reinsurance Agreements") which include both coinsurance and modified coinsurance provisions. Coinsurance and modified
coinsurance provisions are commonly used in the reinsurance of variable annuities because variable annuities generally include both separate account and general account liabilities. When
contractholders make a variable annuity deposit, they must choose how to allocate their account balances between a selection of variable-return mutual funds that must be held in a separate account and
fixed-return funds held in the Company's general account. In addition, variable annuity contracts include various benefit guarantees that are general account obligations of the Company. The
Reinsurance Agreements do not extinguish the Company's primary liability under the variable annuity contracts.   

          Variable
annuity balances invested in variable-return mutual funds are held in separate accounts, which are legally segregated assets and available only to settle separate account
contract obligations. Because the separate account assets must remain with the Company under insurance regulations, modified coinsurance is typically used when parties wish to transfer future economic
benefits of such business. Under the modified coinsurance provisions, the separate account assets remain on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, but the related results of
operations are fully reinsured and presented net of reinsurance on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

          The
coinsurance provisions of the Reinsurance Agreements were used to transfer the future rights and obligations related to fixed-return fund options and benefit guarantees.
$1.37 billion of assets supporting general account liabilities have been transferred to Prudential, net of consideration, under the coinsurance reinsurance provisions as of the transaction
closing date. General account liabilities of $1.26 billion and $1.49 billion as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 respectively, however, remain on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position with a corresponding reinsurance recoverable.   

  159  

For
purposes of presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company treated the reinsurance of substantially all the variable annuity business of ALIC and ALNY to
Prudential as a disposition of operations, consistent with the substance of the transaction which was the disposition of a block of business accomplished through reinsurance. Accordingly, the net
consideration transferred to Prudential of $744 million (computed as $1.37 billion of general account insurance liabilities transferred to Prudential on the closing date less
consideration of $628 million), the cost of hedging the ceding commission received from Prudential of $69 million, pre-tax, and the costs of executing the transaction of
$13 million, pre-tax, were classified as a disposition of operations in the cash flows from investing activities section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   

          Under
the Agreement, the Company, ALIC and ALNY have indemnified Prudential for certain pre-closing contingent liabilities (including extra-contractual liabilities of ALIC
and ALNY and liabilities specifically excluded from the transaction) that ALIC and ALNY have agreed to retain. In addition, the Company, ALIC and ALNY will each indemnify Prudential for certain
post-closing liabilities that may arise from the acts of ALIC, ALNY and their agents, including in connection with ALIC's and ALNY's provision of transition services. The Reinsurance
Agreements contain no limits or indemnifications with regard to insurance risk transfer, and transferred all of the future risks and responsibilities for performance on the underlying variable annuity
contracts to Prudential, including those related to benefit guarantees, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 113 "Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and
Long-Duration Contracts".   

          The
terms of the Agreement give Prudential the right to be the exclusive provider of its variable annuity products through the Allstate proprietary agency force for three years and a
non-exclusive preferred provider for the following two years. During a transition period, ALIC and ALNY will continue to issue new variable annuity contracts, accept additional deposits on
existing business from existing contractholders on behalf of Prudential and, for a period of twenty-four months or less from the effective date of the transaction, service the reinsured business while
Prudential prepares for the migration of the business onto its servicing platform.   

          Pursuant
to the Agreement, the final market-adjusted consideration was $628 million. The disposal resulted in a gain of $83 million pre-tax for ALIC, which was deferred as
a result of the disposition being executed through reinsurance. The deferred gain is included as a component of other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position, and is amortized to gain (loss) on dispositions of operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations over the life of the reinsured business which is estimated to be approximately
18 years. For ALNY, the transaction resulted in a loss of $9 million pre-tax. ALNY's reinsurance loss and other amounts related to the disposal of the business, including the initial
costs and final market value settlements of the derivatives acquired by ALIC to economically hedge substantially all of the exposure related to market adjustments between the effective date of the
Agreement and the closing of the transaction, transactional expenses incurred and amortization of ALIC's deferred reinsurance gain, were included as a component of gain (loss) on disposition of
operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and amounted to $6 million and $(61) million, after-tax during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Gain (loss) on disposition of operations on
the Consolidated Statements of Operations included amortization of ALIC's deferred gain, after-tax, of $5 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. DAC and DSI were reduced by $726 million and $70 million, respectively, as of the effective date of the transaction for balances related to the variable annuity business
subject to the Reinsurance Agreements.   

          The
separate account balances related to the modified coinsurance reinsurance were $13.76 billion and $15.07 billion as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Separate account balances totaling approximately $1.17 billion and $1.10 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related primarily to the variable life business that
is being retained by ALIC and ALNY, and the variable annuity business   

  160  

in
three affiliated companies that were not included in the Agreement. In the five-months of 2006, prior to this disposition, ALIC's and ALNY's variable annuity business generated
approximately $127 million in contract charges, and $278 million in 2005.   

4.     Supplemental Cash Flow Information     

          Non-cash investment exchanges and modifications, which primarily reflect refinancings of fixed income securities and mergers completed with equity securities,
totaled $126 million, $105 million and $95 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          Liabilities
for collateral received in conjunction with the Company's securities lending and other business activities and for funds received from the Company's security repurchase
business activities were $3.46 billion, $4.14 billion and $4.10 billion at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and are reported in other liabilities and accrued
expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The accompanying cash flows are included in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows along with
the activities resulting from management of the proceeds, which for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

161  

5.     Investments     

Fair values     

          The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value for fixed income securities are as follows:   

Scheduled maturities     

          The scheduled maturities for fixed income securities are as follows at December 31, 2007:   

Actual maturities may differ from those scheduled as a result of prepayments by the issuers. Because of the potential for prepayment on mortgage- and asset-backed
securities, they are not categorized by contractual maturity. The commercial mortgage-backed securities are categorized by contractual maturity because they generally are not subject to prepayment
risk.   

  162  

Net investment income     

          Net investment income for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Realized capital gains and losses, after-tax     

          Realized capital gains and losses by security type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Realized capital gains and losses by transaction type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    Dispositions
include sales, losses recognized in anticipation of dispositions and other transactions such as calls and prepayments. The Company recognized losses of
$147 million, $112 million and $208 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, due to changes in intent to hold impaired securities.    

          Gross gains of $261 million, $272 million and $501 million and gross losses of $286 million, $314 million and
$189 million were realized on sales of fixed income securities during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  163  

Unrealized net capital gains and losses     

          Unrealized net capital gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:   

(1)    Included
in the fair value of derivative securities are $(9) million classified as assets and $24 million classified as liabilities.
      (2)    See
Note 2 for Deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs and Reserves for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense and life-contingent
contract benefits.    

(1)    Included
in the fair value of derivative securities are $(7) million classified as assets and $9 million classified as liabilities.
      (2)    See
Note 2 for Deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs and Reserves for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense and life-contingent
contract benefits.    
  164  

Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses     

          The change in unrealized net capital gains and losses for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Portfolio monitoring     

          Inherent in the Company's evaluation of a particular security are assumptions and estimates about the financial condition of the issuer and its future earnings
potential. Some of the factors considered in evaluating whether a decline in fair value is other-than-temporary are: 1) the Company's ability and intent to retain the investment for
a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; 2) the recoverability of principal and interest; 3) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has
been less than amortized cost for fixed income securities, or cost for equity securities; 4) the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer, including
relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; and 5) the specific reasons that a security is in a significant unrealized loss position,
including market conditions which could affect access to liquidity.   

  165  

The following table summarizes the gross unrealized losses and fair value of fixed income and equity securities by the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous
unrealized loss position.   

As of December 31, 2007, $1.60 billion of unrealized losses are related to securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20%
of cost or amortized cost, the degree of which suggests that these   

  166  

securities
do not pose a high risk of being other-than-temporarily impaired. Of the $1.60 billion, $1.39 billion are related to unrealized losses on investment grade fixed
income securities. Investment grade is defined as a security having a rating from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") of 1 or 2; a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody's or
a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from Standard   Poor's ("S P"), Fitch or Dominion, or aaa, aa, a or bbb from A.M. Best; or a comparable internal rating if an externally provided rating is
not available. Unrealized losses on investment grade securities are principally related to rising interest rates or changes in credit spreads since the securities were acquired.   

          As
of December 31, 2007, the remaining $698 million of unrealized losses are related to securities in unrealized loss positions greater than or equal to 20% of cost or
amortized cost. Of the $698 million, $80 million are related to below investment grade fixed income securities and $40 million are related to equity securities. Of these amounts,
none of the equity securities or below investment grade fixed income securities had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of twelve or more consecutive months as of December 31,
2007. The Company expects eventual recovery of these securities. Every security was included in our portfolio monitoring process.   

          The
securities comprising the $698 million of unrealized losses were evaluated based on factors such as the financial condition and near-term and long-term prospects of the issuer
and were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations, such as recent financings or bank loans, cash flows from operations, collateral or the position of a subsidiary with
respect to its parent's bankruptcy.   

          Unrealized
losses on mortgage-backed, asset-backed and commercial mortgage-backed holdings were evaluated based on credit ratings, as well as the performance of the underlying collateral
relative to the securities' positions in the securities' respective capital structure. The unrealized losses on municipal bonds and asset-backed securities that had credit enhancements from bond
insurers were evaluated on the quality of the underlying security. These investments were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations.   

As
of December 31, 2007, the Company had the intent and ability to hold the fixed income and equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of time sufficient for them to
recover.   

   Limited Partnership Impairment     

          As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, equity-method limited partnership investments totaled $1.32 billion and $672 million, respectively. The
Company recognizes a loss in value for equity-method investments when evidence demonstrates that it is other-than-temporarily impaired. Evidence of a loss in value that is
other-than-temporary may include the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment or the inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity that would
justify the carrying amount of the investment. In 2007, the Company had write-downs of $18 million related to equity-method limited partnership interests. No write-downs were recognized in
2006.   

          As
of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying value for cost-method limited partnership investments was $1.19 billion and $953 million, respectively,
which primarily included limited partnership interests in fund investments. The fair value for cost-method investments is not readily determinable because the investments are private in
nature and do not trade frequently. Therefore, the Company evaluates whether an impairment indicator has occurred in the period that may have a significant adverse effect on the carrying value of the
investment. Impairment indicators may include: actual recent cash flows received being significantly less than expected cash flows; reduced valuations based on financing completed at a lower value;
completed sale of a material underlying investment at a price significantly lower than expected; or any other recent adverse events since the last financial statement received that   

  167  

might
affect the fair value of the investee's capital. Additionally, the Company uses a screening process to identify those investments whose net asset value is below established thresholds for
certain periods of time, and investments that are performing below expectations for consideration for inclusion on its watch-list. In 2007 and 2006, the Company had write-downs of
$6 million and $17 million, respectively, related to cost method investments that were other-than-temporarily impaired.   

   Mortgage loan impairment     

          A mortgage loan is impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan
agreement.   

          The
net carrying value of impaired loans at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $2 million and $5 million, respectively. No valuation allowances were held at
December 31, 2007 or 2006 because the fair value of the collateral was greater than the recorded investment in the loans, and no valuation allowances were charged to operations during the years
2007, 2006 or 2005.   

          Interest
income for impaired loans is recognized on an accrual basis if payments are expected to continue to be received; otherwise cash basis is used. The Company recognized interest
income on impaired loans of $0.2 million, $0.4 million and $0.2 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The average balance of impaired loans was $3 million,
$5 million and $6 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

   Investment concentration for municipal bond and commercial mortgage portfolios     

The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of municipal bonds. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of municipal bond issuers
represented in the Company's portfolio. No other state represents more than 5% of the portfolio at December 31, 2007 or 2006.   

The Company's mortgage loans are collateralized by a variety of commercial real estate property types located throughout the United States. Substantially all of
the commercial mortgage loans are non-recourse to the borrower. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of commercial real estate represented in the Company's
mortgage portfolio. No other state represented more than 5% of the portfolio at December 31, 2007 or 2006.   

168  

The types of properties collateralizing the commercial mortgage loans at December 31 are as follows:   

The contractual maturities of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007 for loans that were not in foreclosure are as follows:   

In 2007, $311 million of commercial mortgage loans were contractually due. Of these, 84% were paid as due, 15% were refinanced at prevailing market terms
and 1% were extended for less than one year. None were foreclosed or are in the process of foreclosure, and none were in the process of refinancing or restructuring discussions.   

          At
December 31, 2007, the carrying value of participation in pools of residential mortgage loans outstanding was $5 million.   

Concentration of Credit Risk     

          At December 31, 2007, the Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer and its affiliates greater than 10% of the Company's
shareholders' equity.   

   Securities loaned and security repurchase and resale     

          The Company's business activities include securities lending programs with third parties, mostly large brokerage firms. At December 31, 2007 and 2006,
fixed income and equity securities with a carrying value of $3.29 billion and $3.45 billion, respectively, were on loan under these agreements. In return, the Company receives cash that
it invests and includes in short-term investments and fixed income securities, with an offsetting liability recorded in other liabilities and accrued expenses to account for the Company's obligation
to return the collateral. Interest income on collateral, net of fees, was $19 million, $10 million and $8 million, for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.   

          As
part of its business activities, the Company sells securities under agreements to repurchase and programs to purchase securities under agreements to resell. At December 31,
2007, the Company had no securities that were subject to repurchase agreements. At December 31, 2006, the Company had $196 million of securities that were subject to repurchase
agreements. Of these securities, none were   

  169  

subject
to resale agreements. As part of these programs, the Company receives cash or securities that it invests or holds in short-term or fixed income securities. For repurchase agreements, an
offsetting liability is recorded in other liabilities and accrued expenses to account for the Company's obligation to return these funds. Interest income recorded as a result of the program was $(10)
million, $3 million and $21 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

Other investment information     

          Included in fixed income securities are below investment grade assets totaling $4.63 billion and $4.42 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.   

          At
December 31, 2007, fixed income securities with a carrying value of $265 million were on deposit with regulatory authorities as required by law.   

          At
December 31, 2007, the carrying value of fixed income securities that were non-income producing was $31 million. No other investments were
non-income producing at December 31, 2007.   

6.     Financial Instruments     

          In the normal course of business, the Company invests in various financial assets, incurs various financial liabilities and enters into agreements involving
derivative financial instruments and other off-balance-sheet financial instruments. The fair value estimates of financial instruments presented below are not necessarily indicative of the
amounts the Company might pay or receive in actual market transactions. Potential taxes and other transaction costs have not been considered in estimating fair value. The disclosures that follow do
not reflect the fair value of the Company as a whole since a number of the Company's significant assets (including DAC and DSI, property and equipment, net and reinsurance recoverables, net) and
liabilities (including reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense, reserve for life-contingent contract benefits, contractholder funds pertaining to
interest-sensitive life contracts and deferred income taxes) are not included in accordance with SFAS No. 107, "Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments". Other assets and
liabilities considered financial instruments such as premium installment receivables, accrued investment income,
cash and claim payments outstanding are generally of a short-term nature, and as such their carrying values are deemed to approximate fair value.   

   Financial assets     

The fair values of fixed income securities and equity securities are based upon observable market quotations, observable market data or are derived from such
quotations and observable market data. The fair value of privately placed fixed income securities is generally based on widely accepted pricing valuation models, which are developed internally.
Mortgage loans are valued based on discounted   

  170  

contractual
cash flows. Discount rates are selected using current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar characteristics, using similar properties as collateral. Loans
that exceed 100% loan-to-value are valued at the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. Short-term investments are highly liquid investments with maturities of one year or less
whose carrying values are deemed to approximate fair value. The carrying value of other investments is deemed to approximate fair value. The fair value of reinsurance recoverable on investment
contracts is determined based on the fair value of the underlying annuity contract account liabilities, adjusted for credit risk. Separate accounts assets are carried in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position at fair value based on observable market prices.   

   Financial liabilities     

Contractholder funds include interest-sensitive life insurance contracts and investment contracts. Interest-sensitive life insurance contracts are not considered
financial instruments subject to fair value disclosure requirements. The fair value of investment contracts is based on the terms of the underlying contracts. Fixed annuities are valued at the account
balance less surrender charges. Immediate annuities without life contingencies and funding agreements are valued at the present value of future benefits using current interest rates. The fair value of
variable rate funding agreements approximates carrying value. Market value adjusted annuities' fair value is estimated to be the market adjusted surrender value. Equity-indexed annuity contracts' fair
value approximates carrying value since the embedded equity options are carried at fair value in the consolidated financial statements.   

          Short-term
debt is valued at cost or amortized cost that approximates fair value due to its short-term nature. The fair value of long-term debt is based on market observable data or, in
certain cases, is determined using discounted cash flow calculations based on current interest rates for instruments with
comparable terms. The liability for collateral and repurchase agreements is valued at carrying value due to its short-term nature. Separate accounts liabilities are carried at the corresponding fair
value of the underlying assets.   

Derivative financial instruments     

          The Company primarily uses derivatives for risk reduction and asset replication. In addition, the Company has derivatives embedded in financial instruments, which
are required to be separated and accounted for as derivative instruments. With the exception of derivatives used for asset replication and embedded derivatives which are required to be separated, all
of the Company's derivatives are evaluated for their ongoing effectiveness as either accounting or non-hedge derivative financial instruments on at least a quarterly basis (see
Note 2). The Company does not use derivatives for trading purposes. Non-hedge accounting is used for "portfolio" level hedging strategies where the terms of the individual hedged
items do not meet the strict homogeneity requirements prescribed in SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133") to permit the
application of SFAS   

  171  

No. 133's
hedge accounting model. The principal benefit of a "portfolio" level strategy is in its cost savings through its ability to use fewer derivatives with larger notional amounts.   

          Asset-liability
management is a risk management strategy that is principally employed by Allstate Financial to align the respective interest-rate sensitivities of its assets and
liabilities. Depending upon the attributes of the assets acquired and liabilities issued, derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and floors are acquired to change the interest rate
characteristics of existing assets and liabilities to ensure a properly matched relationship is maintained and to reduce exposure to rising or falling interest rates. Allstate Financial uses financial
futures to hedge anticipated asset and liability purchases and financial futures and options for hedging the Company's equity exposure contained in equity indexed and variable annuity product
contracts that offer equity returns to contractholders. In addition, Allstate Financial also uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk inherent in funding agreements and foreign currency
swaps primarily to reduce the foreign currency risk associated with issuing foreign currency denominated funding agreements.   

Asset
replication refers to the "synthetic" creation of an asset through the use of a credit derivative and a high quality cash instrument to replicate fixed income securities that are
either unavailable in the cash bond market or more economical to acquire in synthetic form. The Company replicates fixed income securities using a combination of a credit default swap and one or more
highly rated fixed income securities to synthetically replicate the economic characteristics of one or more cash market securities.   

          Portfolio
duration management is a risk management strategy that is principally employed by Property-Liability wherein, depending on the current portfolio duration relative to a
designated target and the
expectations of future interest rate movements, the Company uses financial futures to change the duration of the portfolio to mitigate the exposure that interest rates would otherwise have on the
market value of its fixed income securities.   

          Property-Liability
also uses futures to hedge the market risk related to deferred compensation liability contracts, equity index futures to lock-in equity gains and foreign currency
swaps to hedge foreign currency risk.   

          Allstate
Financial and Property-Liability have derivatives that are embedded in non-derivative "host" contracts. The Company's primary embedded derivatives are conversion
options in fixed income investments, which provide the Company with the right to convert the instrument into a predetermined number of shares of common stock; equity options in annuity product
contracts, which provide equity returns to contractholders; and equity-indexed notes containing equity call options, which provide a coupon payout based upon one or more indices.   

          Property-Liability
enters into commodity-based investments through the use of excess return swaps whose return is tied to a commodity-based index. The Company also uses commodity futures
to periodically rebalance its exposure under commodity-indexed excess return swaps as they are very liquid and highly correlated with the commodity-based index.   

Corporate
and Other uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate exposure on its debt issuances.   

          In
the tables that follow:   

          The
notional amounts specified in the contracts are used to calculate the exchange of contractual payments under the agreements and are generally not representative of the potential for
gain or loss on these agreements. However, the notional amounts specified in credit default swaps represent the maximum amount of potential loss, assuming no recoveries.   

Fair
value, which is equal to the carrying value, is the estimated amount that the Company would receive (pay) to terminate the derivative contracts at the reporting date. The fair value
of exchange traded   

  172  

derivative
contracts is based on observable market quotations in active markets, whereas the fair value of non-exchange traded derivative contracts is determined using widely accepted
valuation models and other appropriate valuation methods. For certain exchange traded derivatives, the exchange requires margin deposits as well as daily cash settlements of margin accounts. As of
December 31, 2007, the Company pledged $55 million of securities in the form of margin deposits.   

          Carrying
value amounts include the fair value of the derivatives, including the embedded derivatives, and exclude the accrued periodic settlements which are short-term in nature and are
reported in accrued investment income or other invested assets. The carrying value amounts for freestanding derivatives have been further adjusted for the effects, if any, of legally enforceable
master netting agreements.   

          The
net impact to pre-tax income includes valuation and settlements of derivatives which are reported in net income as described in Note 2. For those derivatives which qualify for
fair value hedge accounting, it also includes the changes in the fair value of the hedged risk, and therefore reflects any hedging ineffectiveness. For cash flow hedges, gains and losses amortized
from accumulated other comprehensive income are included. For embedded derivatives in convertibles and equity-indexed notes subject to bifurcation, accretion income related to the host instrument is
included.   

  173  

The following table categorizes the accounting hedge (fair value and cash flow) and non-hedge strategies employed by the Company. The notional amount, the fair value of the
hedge and the impact on pre-tax income have been provided to illustrate the relative volume, the Company's exposure and the level of mark-to-market activity, respectively, for the
derivative programs as of December 31.   

174  

Derivative instruments are recorded at fair value and presented in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, as
follows:   

For cash flow hedges, unrealized net pre-tax losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income were $(33) million and $(17) million at December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively. The net pre-tax changes in accumulated other comprehensive income due to cash flow hedges resulted from changes in fair value of $(26) million, $(11) million and
$11 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Amortization to net income of accumulated other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges is expected to be $(1) million in 2008.   

  175  

The
following table summarizes the notional amount, fair value and carrying value of the Company's derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2007.   

176  

The following table summarizes the notional amount, fair value and carrying value of the Company's derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2006.   

The Company manages its exposure to credit risk by utilizing highly rated counterparties, establishing risk control limits, executing legally enforceable master
netting agreements and obtaining collateral where appropriate. The Company uses master netting agreements for over-the-counter derivative transactions, including interest rate swap,
foreign currency swap, interest rate cap, interest rate floor, credit default swap, forward and certain option agreements. These agreements permit either party to net payments due for transactions
covered by the agreements. Under the provisions of the agreements, collateral is either pledged or obtained when certain predetermined exposure limits are exceeded. As of December 31, 2007,
counterparties pledged $72 million in cash and $226 million in collateral to the Company, and the Company pledged $1 million in cash and $107 million in securities to
counterparties. The Company has not incurred any losses on derivative financial instruments due to counterparty nonperformance. Other derivatives including futures and certain option contracts are
traded on organized exchanges, which require margin deposits and guarantee the execution of trades, thereby mitigating any potential credit risk associated with transactions executed on organized
exchanges.   

          Credit
exposure represents the Company's potential loss if all of the counterparties concurrently fail to perform under the contractual terms of the contracts and all collateral, if any,
becomes worthless. This   

  177  

exposure
is measured by the fair value of freestanding derivative contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date reduced by the effect, if any, of legally enforceable master netting
agreements.   

          The
following table summarizes the counterparty credit exposure by counterparty credit rating at December 31, as it relates to interest rate swap, foreign currency swap, interest
rate cap, interest rate floor, credit default swap and certain option agreements.   

(1)    Rating
is the lower of S P's or Moody's ratings.
      (2)    Only
over-the-counter derivatives with a net positive fair value are included for each counterparty.    

          Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in market rates and prices. Market risk exists for all of the
derivative financial instruments the Company currently holds, as these instruments may become less valuable due to adverse changes in market conditions. To limit this risk, the Company's senior
management has established risk control limits. In addition, changes in fair value of the derivative financial instruments that the Company uses for risk management purposes are generally offset by
the change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged risk component of the related assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions.   

   Off-balance-sheet financial instruments and unconsolidated investment VIEs     

          The contractual amounts and fair values of off-balance-sheet financial instruments at December 31 are as follows:   

In the above table, the contractual amounts represent the amount at risk if the contract is fully drawn upon, the counterparty defaults and the value of any
underlying security becomes worthless. Unless noted otherwise, the Company does not require collateral or other security to support off-balance-sheet financial instruments with credit
risk.   

          Commitments
to invest generally represent commitments to acquire financial interests or instruments. The Company enters into these agreements to allow for additional participation in
certain limited partnership investments. Because the equity investments in the limited partnerships are not actively traded, it is not practical to estimate the fair value of these commitments.   

  178  

Private
placement commitments represent conditional commitments to purchase private placement debt and equity securities at a specified future date. The Company regularly enters into
these agreements in the normal course of business. The fair value of these commitments generally cannot be estimated on the date the commitment is made as the terms and conditions of the underlying
private placement securities are not yet final.   

          Commitments
to extend mortgage loans are agreements to lend to a borrower provided there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. The Company enters into these
agreements to commit to future loan fundings at a predetermined interest rate. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Commitments to extend mortgage loans,
which are secured by the underlying properties, are valued based on estimates of fees charged by other institutions to make similar commitments to similar borrowers.   

          The
Company established two VIEs that are not consolidated because the Company is not the primary beneficiary. The VIEs hold investments on behalf of unrelated third party investors that
are managed by Allstate Investment Management Company, a subsidiary of the Company. Their assets primarily consist of investment securities and cash, and the liabilities consist primarily of long-term
debt. The Company's maximum loss exposure related to the VIEs is the current carrying value of its investment. Information on each VIE as of December 31, 2007 is listed in the following table.   

7.     Reserve for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense     

          As described in Note 2, the Company establishes reserves for claims and claims expense ("loss") on reported and unreported claims of insured losses. The
Company's reserving process takes into account known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including the Company's experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends
involving claim payment patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, law changes, court decisions, changes to regulatory requirements and
economic conditions. In the normal course of business, the Company may also supplement its claims processes by utilizing third party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, other professionals
and information sources to assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process.   

          Because
reserves are estimates of the unpaid portions of losses that have occurred, including incurred but not reported ("IBNR") losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves,
including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best
estimates. The highest degree of uncertainty is associated with reserves for losses incurred in the current reporting period as it contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been
reported or settled. The Company regularly updates its reserve estimates as new information becomes available and as events unfold that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior
year reserve estimates, which may be material, are
reported in property-liability insurance claims and claims expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period such changes are determined.   

  179  

Activity
in the reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is summarized as follows:   

Incurred claims and claims expense represents the sum of paid losses and reserve changes in the calendar year. This expense includes losses from catastrophes of
$1.41 billion, $810 million and $5.67 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, net of reinsurance and other recoveries (see Note 9). In 2005, losses from catastrophes
included $5.00 billion, net of recoveries, related to Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. These estimates include net losses in personal lines auto and property policies and net losses on
commercial policies. Included in 2006 and 2005 losses from catastrophes are accruals for assessments from Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in the state of Florida ("FL Citizens") and various
other facilities (see Note 13).   

          Catastrophes
are an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance business that have contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, material year-to-year fluctuations in the
Company's results of operations and financial position.   

          The
Company calculates and records a single best reserve estimate for losses from catastrophes, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial principles. As a result, management
believes that no other estimate is better than the recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties involved, including the factors described above, the ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from
recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimates. Accordingly, management believes that it is not practical to develop a meaningful range for any such changes in losses incurred.   

          During
2007, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $311 million due to claim severity development
that was better than expected, offset by increases in homeowners reserves of $115 million due to catastrophe loss reestimates, and increases in environmental reserves of $63 million.
Incurred claims and claims expense includes
unfavorable catastrophe loss reestimates of $127 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries, primarily attributable to increased claim loss and expense reserves for 2005 catastrophe
events.   

          During
2006, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $737 million due to claim severity development
that was better than expected, and late reported loss development that was better than expected due to lower frequency   

  180  

trends
in recent years, decreases in homeowners reserves of $244 million due to catastrophe loss reestimates, claim severity development and late reported loss development that were better than
expected, and decreases in other reserves of $122 million due to catastrophe loss reestimates and commercial lines loss development that was better than expected, offset by increases in
asbestos reserves of $86 million. Claims and claims expense during 2006 includes favorable catastrophe loss reestimates of $223 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries,
including a $63 million reduction in the Company's accrual for an assessment from FL Citizens and $62 million due to recoupments of prior year assessments from FL Citizens and Citizens
Property Insurance Corporation in Louisiana ("LA Citizens").   

          During
2005, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $661 million due to auto injury severity
development that was better than expected and late reported loss development that was better than expected due to lower frequency trends in recent years, and increases in asbestos reserves of
$139 million. Incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years also included $66 million of homeowners losses related to 2004 hurricanes of which $31 million was a FL
Citizens assessment that was accruable in 2005.   

          Management
believes that the reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense, net of recoverables, is appropriately established in the aggregate and adequate to cover the
ultimate net cost of reported and unreported claims arising from losses which had occurred by that date based on available facts, technology, laws and regulations.   

For
further discussion of assessments from FL Citizens and LA Citizens, and asbestos and environmental reserves, see Note 13.   

  181  

8.     Reserves for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits and Contractholder Funds     

At December 31, the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits consists of the following:   

The following table highlights the key assumptions generally used in calculating the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits:   

Product    
     
   Mortality    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Estimation method    

Structured settlement annuities  
     
  U.S. population with projected calendar year improvements; mortality rates adjusted for each impaired life based on reduction in life expectancy and nature of impairment  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 4.1% to 11.7%  
     
  Present value of contractually specified future benefits  

Other immediate fixed annuities  

1983 group annuity 
mortality table 
1983 individual annuity 
mortality table 
1983-a annuity mortality table 
Annuity 2000 mortality table  

Interest rate assumptions range from 1.9% to 11.5%  

Present value of expected future benefits based on historical experience  

Traditional life insurance  

Actual company experience plus loading  

Interest rate assumptions range from 4.0% to 11.3%  

Net level premium reserve method using the Company's withdrawal experience rates  

Other:  

Variable annuity guaranteed minimum death benefits (1)   
     
  90% of 1994 group annuity mortality table with internal modifications  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 6.5% to 7.0%  
     
  Projected benefit ratio applied to cumulative assessments  

Accident   health  

Actual company experience plus loading  

Unearned premium; additional contract reserves for traditional life insurance  

(1)    In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential (see Note 3).    
  182  

To the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a premium deficiency had those gains actually been realized, a
premium deficiency reserve has been recorded for certain immediate annuities with life contingencies. A liability of $1.06 billion and $1.13 billion is included in the reserve for
life-contingent contract benefits with respect to this deficiency as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The offset to this liability is recorded as a reduction of the
unrealized net capital gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income.   

          At
December 31, contractholder funds consist of the following:   

183  

The following table highlights the key contract provisions relating to contractholder funds:   

Product    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Withdrawal/Surrender charges    

Interest-sensitive life insurance  
     
  Interest rates credited range from 2.0% to 6.0%  
     
  Either a percentage of account balance or dollar amount grading off generally over 20 years  

Fixed annuities  

Interest rates credited range from 1.3% to 11.5% for immediate annuities and 0% to 16% for other fixed annuities (which include equity-indexed annuities whose returns are indexed to the S P 500)  

Either a declining or a level percentage charge generally over nine years or less. Additionally, approximately 27.1% of fixed annuities are subject to market value adjustment for discretionary withdrawals.  

Funding agreements backing medium-term notes  

Interest rates credited range from 2.2% to 7.6% (excluding currency-swapped medium-term notes)  

Not applicable  

Other investment contracts:  

Variable guaranteed minimum income benefit (1)  and secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life and fixed annuities  
     
  Interest rates used in establishing reserves range from 1.8% to 10.3%  
     
  Withdrawal and surrender charges are based on the terms of the related interest-sensitive life insurance or fixed annuity contract.  

Guaranteed investment contracts  

Interest rates credited range From 3.7% to 7.7%  

Generally not subject to discretionary withdrawal  

Allstate Bank  

Interest rates credited range from 0% to 5.5%  

A percentage of principal balance for time deposits withdrawn prior to maturity  

(1)    In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential (see Note 3).    

          Contractholder funds include funding agreements held by VIEs issuing medium-term notes. The VIEs are Allstate Life Funding, LLC, Allstate
Financial Global Funding, LLC, Allstate Life Global Funding and Allstate Life Global Funding II, and their primary assets are funding agreements used exclusively to back medium-term note
programs.   

  184  

Contractholder
funds activity for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

The Company offers various guarantees to variable annuity contractholders. Liabilities for variable contract guarantees related to death benefits
are included in reserve for life-contingent contract benefits and the liabilities related to the income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits are included in contractholder funds in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. All liabilities for variable contract guarantees are reported on a gross basis on the balance sheet with a corresponding reinsurance recoverable asset
for those contracts subject to reinsurance, including the Prudential Reinsurance Agreements as disclosed in Note 3.   

Absent
any contract provision wherein the Company guarantees either a minimum return or account value upon death, a specified contract anniversary date, partial withdrawal or
annuitization, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts' funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. The account
balances of variable annuities contracts' separate accounts with guarantees included $13.32 billion and $14.64 billion of equity, fixed income and balanced mutual funds and
$661 million and $674 million of money market mutual funds at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

  185  

The
table below presents information regarding the Company's variable annuity contracts with guarantees. The Company's variable annuity contracts may offer more than one type of
guarantee in each contract; therefore, the sum of amounts listed exceeds the total account balances of variable annuity contracts' separate accounts with guarantees.   

(1)    Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
      (2)    Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum annuity payments in excess of the current account balance.
      (3)    Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum withdrawal balance (initial deposit) in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
      (4)    Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance in excess of the current account balance.    

          The liability for death and income benefit guarantees is equal to a benefit ratio multiplied by the cumulative contract charges earned, plus
accrued interest less contract benefit payments. The benefit ratio is calculated as the estimated present value of all expected contract benefits divided by the present value of all expected contract
charges. The establishment of reserves for these guarantees requires the projection of future separate account fund performance, mortality, persistency and customer benefit utilization rates. These
assumptions are periodically reviewed and updated. For guarantees related to death benefits, benefits represent the current guaranteed minimum death benefit payments in excess of the current account
balance. For guarantees related to income benefits, benefits represent the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuitization benefits in excess of the current account balance.   

          Projected
benefits and contract charges used in determining the liability for certain guarantees are developed using models and stochastic scenarios that are also used in the development
of estimated expected gross profits. Underlying assumptions for the liability related to income benefits include
assumed future annuitization elections based on factors such as the extent of benefit to the potential annuitant, eligibility conditions and the annuitant's attained age. The liability for guarantees
is re-evaluated periodically, and adjustments are made to the liability balance through a charge or credit to life and annuity contract benefits.   

          Guarantees
related to withdrawal and accumulation benefits are considered to be derivative financial instruments; therefore, the liability for these benefits is established based on its
fair value.   

  186  

The following table summarizes the liabilities for guarantees:   

(1)    Included
in the total liability balance at December 31, 2005 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $77 million, variable annuity income benefits of
$20 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $(2) million and other guarantees of $52 million.
      (2)    Included
in the total liability balance at December 31, 2006 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $89 million, variable annuity income benefits of
$20 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $(8) million and other guarantees of $53 million.
      (3)    Included
in the total liability balance at December 31, 2007 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $111 million, variable annuity income benefits of
$23 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $0.4 million and other guarantees of $57 million.    
  187  

9.     Reinsurance     

          The effects of reinsurance on property-liability premiums written and earned and life and annuity premiums and contract charges for the years ended
December 31 are as follows:   

Property-Liability     

          The Company purchases reinsurance after evaluating the financial condition of the reinsurer, as well as the terms and price of coverage. Developments in the
insurance and reinsurance industries have fostered a movement to segregate asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities with dedicated capital.
Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions. The Company is unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectibility of reinsurance
recoverables in the future.   

   Property-Liability Reinsurance Recoverable     

          Total amounts recoverable from reinsurers at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $2.30 billion and $2.33 billion, respectively, including
$99 million and $78 million, respectively, related to property-liability losses paid by the Company and billed to reinsurers, and $2.20 billion and $2.26 billion,
respectively, estimated by the Company with respect to ceded unpaid losses (including IBNR), which are not billable until the losses are paid.   

With
the exception of the recoverable balances from the Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association ("MCCA"), Lloyd's of London and other industry pools and facilities, as disclosed below,
the largest reinsurance recoverable balance the Company had outstanding was $90 million and $85 million from Employers' Reinsurance Company at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. No other amount due or estimated to be due from any single property-liability reinsurer was in excess of $60 million and $67 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.   

          At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, Allstate Texas Lloyd's ("ATL"), a syndicate insurance company, had $5 million and $58 million, respectively, of
reinsurance recoverable on the Texas excess catastrophe loss treaty related to losses incurred from Hurricane Rita that occurred in 2005. ATL cedes 100% of its business net of reinsurance with
external parties to AIC.   

  188  

The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $185 million and $235 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and is related to the Company's
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. In 2007, there were $6 million of additions, $10 million of net recoveries and a reduction of $46 million related to Equitas Limited's
improved financial condition. In 2006, there was $32 million of additions and $10 million of net recoveries. (For further discussion, see the "Asbestos, Environmental and Other" section
in Note 9.)   

   Industry Pools and Facilities     

          Reinsurance recoverable on paid and unpaid claims including IBNR at December 31, 2007 and 2006 includes $1.02 billion and $1.02 billion,
respectively, from the MCCA. The MCCA is a mandatory reinsurance mechanism for personal injury protection losses over a retention level that increases each MCCA fiscal year. The retention levels are
$400 thousand per claim and $420 thousand per claim for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The MCCA is funded by assessments from member companies who,
in turn, can recover assessments from policyholders.   

          Ceded
premiums earned under the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF") agreement were $45 million, $49 million and $45 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Ceded losses incurred include $22 million, $146 million and $197 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company has access to reimbursement provided by
the FHCF for 90% of qualifying personal property losses that exceed its current estimated retention of $172 million for the two largest hurricanes and $57 million for other hurricanes,
up to an estimated maximum total of $905 million effective from June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008. Reinsurance recoverables include $47 million and $70 million
recoverable from the FHCF for qualifying property losses at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          Allstate
sells and administers policies as a participant in the NFIP. The total amounts recoverable at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $22 million and $33 million,
respectively. Ceded premiums earned include $257 million, $232 million and $199 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Ceded losses incurred include $65 million,
$32 million and $3.30 billion, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Under the arrangement, the Federal Government is obligated to pay all claims.   

   Catastrophe reinsurance     

          The Company has the following catastrophe reinsurance treaties in effect:   

an
aggregate excess agreement that covers storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, earthquakes, and fires following earthquakes for Allstate Protection
personal lines auto and property business countrywide, except for Florida, effective June 1, 2007 with 15% expiring May 31, 2008 and the remainder expiring May 31, 2009;
           a
California fires following earthquakes agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses in California, effective February 1,
2006 to May 31, 2008;
           multi-year
reinsurance treaties that cover Allstate-brand personal property excess catastrophe losses in Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, and Texas effective
June 1, 2005 to May 31, 2008;
           a
New Jersey agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal property catastrophe losses in excess of the New Jersey multi-year agreement effective June 1, 2007 to
May 31, 2008;
           a
South-East agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses for storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service in 11
Atlantic and Gulf states and the District of Columbia effective June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008;    
 
  189  

a
Kentucky agreement that provides coverage for Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses in the state for earthquake and fires following earthquakes
effective June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008;
           a
North-East agreement for additional hurricane coverage in the states of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for Allstate Protection personal property and auto excess
catastrophe losses effective June 15, 2007 to June 8, 2010; and
           Four
separate agreements for Allstate Floridian Insurance Company and its subsidiaries ("Allstate Floridian"), for personal property excess catastrophe losses in Florida
that coordinate coverage with our participation in the FHCF, effective June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2008.    

Under
all reinsurance agreements, the Company ceded premiums earned of $811 million and $521 million in the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.   

   Florida     

          During 2006, Allstate Floridian Insurance Company ("AFIC") and Allstate Floridian Indemnity ("AFI") entered into a 100% quota share reinsurance agreement with
Royal Palm Insurance Company ("Royal Palm") on selected personal property policies written in Florida. AFIC and AFI plan to no longer offer coverage on these policies after their contract terms
expire, at which time Royal Palm may offer coverage to these policyholders. Any qualifying recoveries from the FHCF and the catastrophe reinsurance agreements will be shared with Royal Palm under the
existing agreement. Subject to this agreement, AFIC and AFI ceded $63 million of unearned premiums in 2006 and the related transfer of cash was recorded in cash flows from operating activities
in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. AFIC and AFI are also ceding premiums and losses on these policies through their expiration under an indemnity reinsurance agreement totaling
$(25) million and $81 million of premiums written, $35 million and $84 million of premiums earned and $20 million and $16 million of incurred losses during 2007 and
2006, respectively.   

          During
2005, AFIC and AFI reached a definitive agreement for a portion of its existing customers to have new policies available from Universal Insurance Company of North America, a
non-affiliate, when their existing policies expire and are not renewed. Subject to this agreement, AFIC and AFI ceded $32 million of unearned premiums in 2005 and the related
transfer of cash was recorded in cash flows from operating activities in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. AFIC and AFI are also ceding premiums and losses on these policies through
their expiration under an indemnity reinsurance agreement. Subject to the agreement, AFIC and AFI ceded premiums written of $67 million in 2005, $14 million and $51 million of
premiums earned and $5 million and $42 million of claims and claims expense in 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

   Asbestos, Environmental and Other     

          Reinsurance recoverables include $240 million and $271 million from Lloyd's of London at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Lloyd's of
London, through the creation of Equitas Limited, implemented a restructuring plan in 1996 to solidify its capital base and to segregate claims for years prior to 1993. The recoverable from Equitas
Limited syndicates is spread among thousands of Lloyd's of London investors who have unlimited liability. The reinsurance recoverables valuation allowance was reduced by $46 million in 2007
related to Equitas Limited's improved financial position as a result of its obtaining reinsurance coverage with National Indemnity Company.   

   Allstate Financial     

          The Company's Allstate Financial segment reinsures certain of its risks to other insurers primarily under yearly renewable term, coinsurance, modified coinsurance
and coinsurance with funds withheld   

  190  

agreements.
These agreements result in a passing of the agreed-upon percentage of risk to the reinsurer in exchange for negotiated reinsurance premium payments. Modified coinsurance and coinsurance
with funds withheld are similar to coinsurance except that the cash and investments that support the liability for contract benefits are not transferred to the assuming company and settlements are
made on a net basis between the companies. Allstate Financial cedes 100% of the morbidity risk on substantially all of its long-term care contracts. Allstate Financial cedes specified percentages of
the mortality risk on certain life policies, depending upon the issue date and product, to a pool of fourteen unaffiliated reinsurers. Beginning in July 2007, for new life insurance contracts,
Allstate Financial reinsured the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $3 million per life for contracts issued to individuals age 70 and over, and reinsured the mortality risk
associated with coverage in excess of $5 million per life for most other contracts. Also beginning in July 2007, for certain large contracts that meet specific criteria, Allstate Financial's
retention limit was increased to $10 million per life. In the period prior to July 2007, but subsequent to August 1998, Allstate Financial reinsured the mortality risk associated with coverage
in excess of $2 million per life, except in 2006 in certain instances when specific criteria were met, it reinsured the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $5 million
per life. For business sold prior to October 1998, Allstate Financial reinsured mortality risk in excess of specific amounts up to $1 million per individual life.   

In
addition, Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. Allstate Financial had reinsurance recoverables of
$1.26 billion and $1.49 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, due from Prudential related to the disposal of substantially all of its variable annuity business that
was effected through Reinsurance Agreements (see Note 3). In 2007, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of $317 million, contract benefits of $59 million, interest
credited to contractholder funds of $43 million, and operating costs and expenses of $72 million were ceded to Prudential pursuant to the Reinsurance Agreements. In 2006, life and
annuity premiums and contract charges of $170 million, contract benefits of $29 million, interest credited to contractholder funds
of $35 million, and operating costs and expenses of $64 million were ceded to Prudential pursuant to the Reinsurance Agreements. Prior to this disposal, Allstate Financial ceded 100% of
the mortality and certain other risks related to product features on certain in-force variable annuity contracts. In addition, as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 Allstate Financial
had reinsurance recoverables of $166 million and $153 million, respectively due from subsidiaries of Citigroup and Scottish Re (U.S.) Inc. in connection with the disposition of
substantially all of the direct response distribution business in 2003.   

          As
of December 31, 2007, the gross life insurance in force was $518 billion of which $247 billion was ceded to the unaffiliated reinsurers.   

          Reinsurance
recoverables at December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

At both December 31, 2007 and 2006, approximately 88% of Allstate Financial's reinsurance recoverables are due from companies rated
A- or better by S P.   

  191  

10.  Deferred Policy Acquisition and Sales Inducement Costs     

          Deferred policy acquisition costs for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    The
adoption of SOP 05-1 resulted in a $11 million adjustment to unamortized DAC related to the impact on future estimated gross profits from the changes in
accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer qualify for deferral. (see Note 2).
      (2)    In
2006, DAC was reduced related to the disposition through reinsurance agreements of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business (see Note 3).    

Net amortization charged to income, due to the realization of capital (gains) and losses, includes $(17) million, $(50) million and
$126 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  192  

As
disclosed in Note 3, DAC and DSI balances were reduced during 2006 related to the disposal through reinsurance agreements of substantially all of the variable annuity business.
During 2005, DAC and DSI amortization on this business was estimated using stochastic modeling and was significantly impacted by the anticipated return on the underlying funds. The Company's long-term
expectation of separate accounts fund performance, net of fees, was approximately 7% in 2005. Whenever actual separate accounts fund performance based on the two most recent years varied from the
expectation, the Company projected performance levels over the next five years such that the mean return over a seven-year period equaled the long-term expectation. This approach is commonly referred
to as "reversion to the mean" and is commonly used by the life insurance industry as an appropriate method for amortizing variable annuity and life DAC and DSI. In applying the reversion to the mean
process, the Company did not allow the future mean rates of return including fees projected over the five-year period to exceed 12.75% or fall below 0%. The Company periodically evaluated the results
of utilization of this process to confirm that it was reasonably possible that variable annuity and life fund performance would revert to the expected long-term mean within this time horizon.   

          DSI
activity for Allstate Financial, which primarily relates to fixed annuities, for the twelve months ended December 31 was as follows:   

(1)    The
adoption of SOP 05-1 resulted in a $2 million adjustment to unamortized DSI related to the impact on future estimated gross profits from the changes in
accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer qualify for deferral. (see Note 2)
      (2)    In
2006, DSI was reduced related to the disposition through reinsurance agreements of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business (see Note 3).    
  193  

11.  Capital Structure     

   Debt outstanding     

          Total debt outstanding at December 31 consisted of the following:   

(1)    Senior
Notes are subject to redemption at the Company's option in whole or in part at any time at the greater of either 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest
to the redemption date or the discounted sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest and accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
      (2)    The
Company classifies any borrowings, which have a maturity of twelve months or less at inception as short-term debt.    

          Total debt outstanding by maturity at December 31 consisted of the following:   

In 2007, the Company issued $500 million of Series A 6.50% and $500 million of Series B 6.125% Fixed-
to-Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures (together the "Debentures"). The net proceeds were used for the repurchase of the Company's common stock. The scheduled maturity dates for
the Debentures are May 15, 2057 and May 15, 2037 for Series A and Series B, respectively, with a final maturity date of May 15, 2067. The Debentures may be redeemed
(i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after May 15, 2037 or May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B, respectively, at their principal amount plus accrued and
unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to May 15, 2037 and May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B,
respectively, at their principal amount
plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price.   

  194  

Interest
on the Debentures is payable semi-annually at the stated fixed annual rate to May 15, 2037 and May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B,
respectively, and then payable quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.12% and 1.935% for Series A and Series B, respectively. The Company may elect at one or
more times to defer payment of interest on the Debentures for one or more consecutive interest periods that do not exceed 10 years. Interest compounds during such deferral periods at the rate
in effect for each period. The interest deferral feature obligates the Company in certain circumstances to issue common stock or certain other types of securities if it cannot otherwise raise
sufficient funds to make the required interest payments. The Company has reserved 75 million shares of its authorized and unissued common stock to satisfy this obligation.   

In
connection with the issuance of the Debentures, the Company entered into replacement capital covenants. These covenants are not intended for the benefit of the holders of the
Debentures and may not be enforced by them. Rather, they are for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of the Company's indebtedness, initially the 6.90% Senior Debentures due
2038. Pursuant to these covenants, the Company has agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the Debentures on or before May 15, 2067 and May 15, 2047 for Series A and
Series B, respectively, unless, subject to certain limitations, the Company has received proceeds in specified amounts from the issuance of specified securities. These covenants terminate in
2067 and 2047 for Series A and Series B, respectively, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the Debentures of the particular series due to the
occurrence of an event of default. An event of default, as defined by the supplemental indentures, includes default in the payment of interest or principal and bankruptcy proceedings.   

          In
2006, the Company issued $650 million of 5.95% Senior Notes due 2036. The net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including to facilitate the repayment of the
$550 million of 5.375% senior notes at their scheduled maturity on December 1, 2006.   

          The
Company is the primary beneficiary of a consolidated VIE used to acquire up to 38 automotive collision repair stores ("synthetic lease VIE"). In 2006, the Company renewed the
synthetic lease for a five-year term at a floating rate due 2011. The Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position include $40 million and $42 million of property and
equipment, net, and long-term debt as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          To
manage short-term liquidity, Allstate can issue commercial paper, draw on its credit facilities and engage in securities repurchase agreements (see Note 2). The Company
currently maintains a commercial paper program and a credit facility as a potential source of funds. These include a $1.00 billion unsecured
revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion. The facility has an initial term of five years expiring in 2012 with two one-year extensions
that can be exercised in the first or second year of the facility upon approval of existing or replacement lenders providing more than two-thirds of the commitments to lend. This facility
also contains an increase provision that would allow up to an additional $500 million of borrowing provided the increased portion could be fully syndicated at a later date among existing or new
lenders. This facility has a financial covenant requiring the Company not to exceed a 37.5% debt to capital resources ratio as defined in the agreement. Although the right to borrow under the facility
is not subject to a minimum rating requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of the Company's senior, unsecured, nonguaranteed long-term debt.
The total amount outstanding at any point in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot exceed the amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility.
No amounts were outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The Company had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The Company paid
$320 million, $322 million and $318 million of interest on debt in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  195  

During
2006, the Company filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC. The registration statement covers an unspecified amount of securities and can be used to issue debt
securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and securities of subsidiaries.   

   Capital stock     

          The Company had 900 million shares of issued common stock of which 563 million shares were outstanding and 337 million shares were held in
treasury as of December 31, 2007. In 2007, the Company reacquired 62 million shares at an average cost of $58.29 and reissued 3 million shares under equity incentive plans.   

   12.  Company Restructuring     

          The Company undertakes various programs to reduce expenses. These programs generally involve a reduction in staffing levels, and in certain cases, office
closures. Restructuring and related charges include employee termination and relocation benefits, and post-exit rent expenses in connection with these programs, and non-cash charges resulting from
pension benefit payments made to agents in connection with the 1999 reorganization of Allstate's multiple agency programs to a single exclusive agency program and the Company's 2006 voluntary
termination offer ("VTO"). The expenses related to
these activities are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as restructuring and related charges, and totaled $29 million, $182 million and $41 million in 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          The
following table illustrates the inception to date changes in the restructuring liability:   

Restructuring and related charges included $94 million in 2006 related to the Company's VTO and reduction in force. The VTO included
severance, which was recorded as a restructuring liability and fully settled during 2006. The VTO also included one-time termination benefits for accelerated vesting of stock-based incentive
compensation, eligibility for postretirement benefits, and a non-cash pension settlement charge recorded during the third quarter of 2006, which were expensed as incurred. The VTO was offered to most
employees located at the Company's headquarters.   

          At
December 31, 2006, the total liability was $22 million and consisted of $20 million in employee costs and $2 million in exit costs. The payments applied
against the liability for employee costs primarily reflect severance costs, and the payments for exit costs generally consist of post-exit rent expenses and contract termination penalties.   

   13.  Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities     

Leases     

          The Company leases certain office facilities and computer equipment. Total rent expense for all leases was $304 million, $308 million and
$354 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  196  

Minimum rental commitments under noncancelable capital and operating leases with an initial or remaining term of more than one year as of December 31, 2007 are as follows:   

In 2006, the Company entered into sale-leaseback transactions to dispose of three buildings and lease back certain portions of the buildings ranging
from 49% to 100% for a period of ten years. The
transactions resulted in a pre-tax gain of $12 million of which $4 million was recognized as a gain in 2006 and $8 million was deferred and will be amortized as a reduction to
rent expense over the ten-year leaseback period. The Company also entered into another sale-leaseback transaction in 2006 to dispose of a building and leaseback approximately 23% of the
building for a period of three years. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $8 million of which $7 million was recognized as a gain in 2006 and the remaining $1 million
was deferred and will be amortized as a reduction to rent expense over the three-year leaseback period. The Company has limited involvement other than being a tenant, and the leases are accounted for
as operating leases.   

          In
2005, the Company entered into a sale-leaseback transaction to dispose of three buildings and lease back 100% of the buildings for a period of ten years. The transaction
resulted in a pre-tax gain of $40 million that was deferred and will be amortized as a reduction to rent expense over the ten-year leaseback period. The Company also
entered into another sale-leaseback transaction in 2005 to dispose of a building and leaseback approximately 47% of the building for a period of ten years. This transaction resulted in a
pre-tax gain of $24 million of which $12 million was recognized as a gain in 2005 and the remaining $12 million was deferred and will be amortized as a reduction to
rent expense over the ten-year leaseback period. The Company has limited involvement other than being a tenant, and the leases are accounted for as operating leases.   

   State facility assessments     

          The Company is required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations in various states that provide insurance
coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because of the Company's participation, it may be exposed to losses that surpass the
capitalization of these facilities and/or to assessments from these facilities.   

          Allstate
Floridian is subject to assessments from FL Citizens, which was initially created by the state of Florida to provide insurance to property owners unable to obtain coverage in
the private insurance market. FL Citizens, at the discretion and direction of its Board of Governors ("FL Citizens Board"), can levy a regular assessment on "assessable insurers" and "assessable
insureds" for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of 10% of the deficit or 10% of Florida property premiums industry-wide for the prior year. The base of "assessable
insurers" includes all property and casualty premiums in   

  197  

the
state, except workers' compensation, medical malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies written under NFIP. An insurer may recoup a regular assessment through a surcharge to
policyholders. In order to recoup this assessment, an insurer must file for a policy surcharge with the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") at least fifteen days prior to imposing the
surcharge on policies. If a deficit remains after the regular assessment, FL Citizens can also levy emergency assessments in the current and subsequent years. Companies are required to collect the
emergency assessments directly from residential property policyholders and remit to FL Citizens as collected. In addition, FL Citizens may issue bonds to further fund a deficit. Participating
companies are obligated to purchase any unsold bonds issued by FL Citizens.   

          FL
Citizens reported losses from Hurricane Wilma in 2005, which followed a deficit for the 2004 plan year. The FL Citizens Board certified the 2005 FL Citizens deficit at
$1.73 billion of which $920 million was to be funded through a regular assessment. The Company paid its portion of the deficit assessment totaling $14 million during 2006 and has
recouped $1 million as of December 31, 2007. The Company expects to continue recoupment in 2008. The remainder of the deficit was funded by bonds issued in 2006.   

          The
Company is also subject to assessments from LA Citizens. LA Citizens can levy a regular assessment on participating companies for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of
the greater of 10% of the calendar year deficit or 10% of Louisiana direct property premiums industry-wide for the prior calendar year.   

   Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund     

          Allstate Floridian participates in the mandatory coverage provided by the FHCF and therefore has access to reimbursements on certain qualifying Florida hurricane
losses (see Note 9) from the FHCF, has exposure to assessments and pays annual premiums to the FHCF for this reimbursement protection. The FHCF has the authority to issue bonds to pay its
obligations to insurers participating in the mandatory coverage in excess of its capital balances. Payment of these bonds is funded by emergency assessments on all property and casualty premiums in
the state, except workers' compensation, medical malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies written under the NFIP. The FHCF emergency assessments are limited to 6% of premiums per year
beginning the first year in which reimbursements require bonding, and up to a total of 10% of premiums per year for assessments in the second and subsequent years, if required to fund additional
bonding. In 2006, the FHCF issued approximately $4 billion in bonds, and the FL OIR ordered an emergency assessment of 1% of premiums collected, which began on January 1, 2007.
As required, companies will collect the FHCF emergency assessments directly from policyholders and remit them to the FHCF as they are collected.   

          Facilities
such as FL Citizens, LA Citizens and the FHCF are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders, however, the exposure to assessments and the
availability of recoupments or premium rate increases from these facilities may not offset each other in the Company's financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not
offset each other in financial statements for the same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases, as well as the possibility of policies not
being renewed in subsequent years.   

   California Earthquake Authority     

          Exposure to certain potential losses from earthquakes in California is limited by the Company's participation in the California Earthquake Authority ("CEA"),
which provides insurance for California earthquake losses. The CEA is a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake damage. Insurers selling
homeowners insurance in California are required to offer earthquake insurance to their customers either through their company or by participation   

  198  

in
the CEA. The Company's homeowners policies continue to include coverages for losses caused by explosions, theft, glass breakage and fires following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by the
CEA.   

          Should
losses arising from an earthquake cause a deficit in the CEA, additional funding would be obtained through reinsurance proceeds and assessments on participating insurance
companies. Participating insurers are required to pay an assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $2.20 billion, if the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million. Participating
insurers are required to pay a second assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.47 billion, if aggregate CEA earthquake losses exceed $8.62 billion and the capital of the CEA
falls below $350 million.   

          In
2007, the authority of the CEA to assess participating insurers was extended for ten years from December 1, 2008, the date the previous authority was due to expire. Beginning
December 1, 2008, participating insurers would be required to pay an assessment currently estimated not to exceed $1.47 billion if the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million.
Participating insurers are required to pay a second assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.30 billion, if aggregate CEA earthquake losses exceed $8.62 billion and the capital
of the CEA falls below $350 million.   

          At
September 30, 2007, the CEA's capital balance was approximately $2.81 billion. If the CEA assesses its member insurers for any amount, the amount of future assessments
on members is reduced by the amounts previously assessed. To date, the only assessment made by the CEA has been its initial assessment paid by participating insurers beginning in 1996.   

          All
future assessments on participating CEA insurers are based on their CEA insurance market share as of December 31 of the preceding year. As of December 31, 2006, the
Company's share of the CEA was 21.6%. Allstate does not expect its CEA market share to materially change. At this level, the Company's maximum possible CEA assessment would be $791 million
during the period of January 1, 2008 to November 30, 2008, and $597 million beginning December 1, 2008. Accordingly, assessments from the CEA for a particular quarter or
annual period may be material to the results of operations and cash flows, but not the financial position of the Company. Management believes Allstate's exposure to earthquake losses in California has
been significantly reduced as a result of its participation in the CEA.   

   Guaranty funds     

          Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, for certain obligations of insolvent
insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Amounts assessed to each company are typically related to its proportion of business written in each state. The Company's policy is to accrue
assessments as the related written premium upon which the assessment is based is written, subsequent to the occurrence of a formal determination of insolvency. The Company's expenses related to these
funds totaled $9 million, $27 million and $23 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the liability balance included in other
liabilities and accrued expenses was $85 million and $106 million, respectively.   

Shared markets     

          As a condition of maintaining its licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, the Company is required to participate in assigned
risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage
from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to the results of operations.   

  199  

PMI runoff support agreement     

          The Company has certain limited rights and obligations under a capital support agreement ("Runoff Support Agreement") with PMI Mortgage Insurance Company ("PMI"),
the primary operating subsidiary of PMI Group, related to the Company's disposition of PMI in prior years. Under the Runoff Support Agreement, the Company would be required to pay claims on PMI
policies written prior to October 28, 1994 if PMI fails certain financial covenants and fails to pay such claims. The agreement only covers these policies and not any policies issued on or
after that date. In the event any amounts are so paid, the Company would receive a commensurate amount of preferred stock or subordinated debt of PMI Group or PMI. The Runoff Support Agreement also
restricts PMI's ability to write new business and pay dividends under certain circumstances. Management does not believe this agreement will have a material adverse effect on results of operations,
cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

   Guarantees     

          The Company provides residual value guarantees on Company leased automobiles. If all outstanding leases were terminated effective December 31, 2007, the
Company's maximum obligation pursuant to these guarantees, assuming the automobiles have no residual value, would be $17 million at December 31, 2007. The remaining term of each residual
value guarantee is equal to the term of the underlying lease that ranges from less than one year to three years. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments pursuant to these
guarantees.   

          The
Company owns certain fixed income securities that obligate the Company to exchange credit risk or to forfeit principal due, depending on the nature or occurrence of specified credit
events for the referenced entities. In the event all such specified credit events were to occur, the Company's maximum amount at risk on these fixed income securities, as measured by the amount of the
aggregate initial investment was $208 million at December 31, 2007. The obligations associated with these fixed income securities expire at various dates during the next seven years.   

In
the normal course of business, the Company provides standard indemnifications to contractual counterparties in connection with numerous transactions, including acquisitions and
divestitures. The types of indemnifications typically provided include indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties, taxes and certain other liabilities, such as third party
lawsuits. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and are entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. The terms
of the indemnifications vary in duration and nature. In many cases, the maximum obligation is not explicitly stated and the contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify have not occurred and
are not expected to occur. Consequently, the maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnifications is not determinable. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments pursuant to
these obligations.   

          The
aggregate liability balance related to all guarantees was not material as of December 31, 2007.   

   Regulation     

          The Company is subject to changing social, economic and regulatory conditions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or legislative bodies seek to influence
and restrict premium rates, require premium refunds to policyholders, restrict the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require insurers to continue to write new policies
or limit their ability to write new policies, limit insurers' ability to change coverage terms or to impose underwriting standards, impose additional regulations regarding agent and broker
compensation and otherwise expand overall regulation of insurance products and the insurance industry. The ultimate changes and eventual effects of these initiatives on the Company's business, if any,
are uncertain.   

  200  

The
Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("OIR") filed an Immediate Final Order (the "Order") with respect to the Company as well as nine other named affiliated Allstate companies on
January 17, 2008, suspending their certificates of authority in Florida and ordering them to discontinue transacting any new insurance business in Florida until all requested documents were
produced in accordance with previously issued OIR subpoenas. The subpoenas are in connection with the investigation of residential property insurance rate practices. The Order did allow the companies
to continue all of their existing insurance business and renewals of that insurance; only the writing of new insurance policies was prohibited. On January 18, 2008, the affected Allstate
companies filed an emergency motion for immediate relief with the First District Court of Appeal of the State of Florida. The Court granted the motion and stayed the Order and subsequently upheld the
stay pending a final disposition on the merits. The Court also ordered that the appeal process be expedited. The companies continue to write new business in the interim. In February 2008, the
OIR filed an administrative complaint against the affected Allstate companies regarding the response to the subpoenas and certain rate filings. The filing of this complaint provides the companies with
an opportunity for an evidentiary hearing, which was required by Florida law after the OIR issued the Order. As part of this complaint, the OIR is seeking to suspend the certificates of authority of
these companies and has stated their intention that the suspension apply to new business writings. Additionally, following hearings in February 2008 regarding residential property insurance rate
practices before the Florida Senate Select Committee on Property Insurance Accountability, the Committee has submitted a document request to affiliated Allstate companies to produce certain documents.   

Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries     

    Background      

          The Company and certain subsidiaries are involved in a number of lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising out of various aspects of its
business. As background to the "Proceedings" subsection below, please note the following:   

These
matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to many uncertainties and complexities, including the underlying facts of each matter;
novel legal issues; variations between jurisdictions in which matters are being litigated, heard, or investigated; differences in applicable laws and judicial interpretations; the length of time
before many of these matters might be resolved by settlement, through litigation or otherwise; the fact that some of the lawsuits are putative class actions in which a class has not been certified and
in which the purported class may not be clearly defined; the fact that some of the lawsuits involve multi-state class actions in which the applicable law(s) for the claims at issue is in dispute and
therefore unclear; and the current challenging legal environment faced by large corporations and insurance companies.
           The
outcome on these matters may also be affected by decisions, verdicts, and settlements, and the timing of such decisions, verdicts, and settlements, in other individual
and class action lawsuits that involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities and by other legal, governmental, and regulatory actions that involve the Company, other insurers, or other
entities.
           In
the lawsuits, plaintiffs seek a variety of remedies including equitable relief in the form of injunctive and other remedies and monetary relief in the form of contractual
and extra-contractual damages. In some cases, the monetary damages sought include punitive or treble damages. Often specific information about the relief sought, such as the amount of damages, is not
available because plaintiffs have not requested specific relief in their pleadings. When specific monetary demands are made, they are often set just below a state court jurisdictional limit in order
to seek the maximum amount available in state court, regardless of the specifics of the case, while still    
 
  201  

avoiding
the risk of removal to federal court. In our experience, monetary demands in pleadings bear little relation to the ultimate loss, if any, to the Company.   

In
connection with regulatory examinations and proceedings, government authorities may seek various forms of relief, including penalties, restitution and changes in business
practices. The Company may not be advised of the nature and extent of relief sought until the final stages of the examination or proceeding.
           For
the reasons specified above, it is often not possible to make meaningful estimates of the amount or range of loss that could result from the matters described below in
the "Proceedings" subsection. The Company reviews these matters on an ongoing basis and follows the provisions of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies", when making accrual and disclosure
decisions. When assessing reasonably possible and probable outcomes, the Company bases its decisions on its assessment of the ultimate outcome following all appeals.
           Due
to the complexity and scope of the matters disclosed in the "Proceedings" subsection below and the many uncertainties that exist, the ultimate outcome of these matters
cannot be reasonably predicted. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently reserved and may be material to the
Company's operating results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual period. However, based on information currently known to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome of all matters
described below as they are resolved over time is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company.    

Proceedings      

          There is one 19-state certified class action lawsuit pending against Allstate in Washington state court alleging that its failure to pay "inherent
diminished value" to insureds under the uninsured motorist property damage liability provisions of auto policies constitutes breach of contract and fraud. Plaintiffs define "inherent diminished value"
as the difference between the market value of the insured automobile before an accident and the market value after repair. Plaintiffs allege that they are entitled to the payment of inherent
diminished value under the terms of the policy. This lawsuit is similar to others filed against other carriers in the industry. A settlement of the class action for an amount that is not material has
been preliminarily approved by the court. In January 2008, notice of the settlement was mailed to class members in 16 of the 19 states inviting them to participate in the settlement. The entire case
will be dismissed as a result of the settlement.   

          There
are a number of state and nationwide class action lawsuits pending in various state courts challenging the legal propriety of Allstate's medical bill review processes on a number
of grounds, including the manner in which Allstate determines reasonableness and necessity. These lawsuits, which to a large degree mirror similar lawsuits filed against other carriers in the
industry, allege these processes result in a breach of the insurance policy and, in some cases, the plaintiffs also allege fraud. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages in the form of contractual and
extra-contractual damages. The Company denies these allegations. One nationwide class action and one statewide class action have been certified. A
settlement of the statewide class action for an amount that is not material has been approved by the court. The Company continues to vigorously defend the other cases.   

          There
is a nationwide putative class action pending against Allstate that challenges Allstate's use of a vendor's automated database in valuing total loss automobiles. To a large degree,
this lawsuit mirrors similar lawsuits filed against other carriers in the industry. Plaintiffs allege that flaws in the database result in valuations to the detriment of insureds. The plaintiffs are
seeking actual and punitive damages. The lawsuit is in the early stages of discovery and Allstate is vigorously defending it.   

  202  

The
Company is defending a number of matters filed in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, including individual lawsuits, and several statewide putative class action lawsuits
pending in Mississippi and Louisiana. These matters are in various stages of development. The lawsuits and developments in litigation arising from the hurricanes include the following:   

The
Mississippi Attorney General filed a suit asserting that the flood exclusion found in Allstate's and other insurance companies' policies is either ambiguous,
unenforceable as unconscionable or contrary to public policy, or inapplicable to the damage suffered in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. Our motion for judgment on the pleadings is pending.
           The
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has upheld the federal trial court's finding that the flood exclusion in Allstate's policy in Mississippi applies to
"storm surge" damage suffered in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.
           In
a putative class action in Mississippi, some members of the Mississippi Windstorm Underwriters Association ("MWUA") have filed suit against the MWUA board members and the
companies they represent, including an Allstate subsidiary, alleging that the Board purchased insufficient reinsurance to protect the MWUA members. Plaintiffs motion for class certification is
pending. Discovery is ongoing.
           In
a putative class action in Louisiana, the trial court ruled that Allstate's and other insurers' flood, water and negligent construction exclusions do not apply to
man-made floods (i.e., floods caused by human negligence), and do not apply to flooding in the New Orleans area to the extent it was caused by human negligence in the design, construction
and/or maintenance of the levees. Allstate and other insurers pursued an interlocutory appeal and in June 2007 the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed the trial court's
ruling. The matter has been remanded to the trial court for further proceedings which have been consolidated along with other putative class and individual actions brought against the Company and
other insurers, challenging the adjustment and settlement of Hurricane Katrina claims. The trial court has issued an order staying all insurance coverage issues pending the decision of the Louisiana
Supreme Court in a case involving a similar challenge to the flood exclusion of another carrier. Also, plaintiffs in the class action had filed a petition with the U.S. Supreme Court challenging the
Fifth Circuit's decision not to certify the matter to the Louisiana Supreme Court. On February 19, 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court denied plaintiffs' petition, and thus, declined to review the
Fifth Circuit's decision. Lastly, in January 2008, Allstate filed with the trial court a motion to effectuate the mandate of the Fifth Circuit or for leave to file a motion for partial summary
judgment based on Allstate's water damage exclusion. That motion was denied. Allstate then filed a new motion with the Fifth Circuit requesting that it recall its mandate and reform to clarify that
its earlier ruling that Allstate's flood exclusions unambiguously exclude coverage for flood losses sustained when the levees failed applies with equal force to Allstate's
water damage exclusion. The Fifth Circuit denied the motion to recall the mandate. The parties and the District Court are now awaiting a ruling from the Louisiana Supreme Court in the above referenced
case involving another carrier. Once that ruling is issued, the federal court will have to decide what effect, if any, the ruling has on the matters before it.
           In
another case, the trial court dismissed a putative class action brought against Allstate and other insurers under Louisiana's Valued Policy Law ("VPL"),
holding that the law did not apply where the cause of the policyholder's total loss was due in part to a non-covered peril, such as flood. United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth
Circuit has affirmed the trial court's dismissal of the case. The U.S. Supreme Court has denied plaintiffs' petition for review.    
 
  203  

The
Company has also been sued in a putative class action in the United States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana which challenges the Company's estimating
and adjusting of Hurricane Katrina and Rita property damage claims in the State of Louisiana. The Company's motion to strike the class allegations was denied and the parties are proceeding with
discovery. Plaintiffs' motion for class certification is pending.
           The
Louisiana Attorney General filed a class action lawsuit in state court against Allstate and other insurers on behalf of Road Home fund recipients alleging that the
insurers have failed to pay all damages owed under their policies. The insurers removed the matter to federal court. The district court has denied plaintiffs' motion to remand the matter to state
court and plaintiffs are appealing that decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.
           The
Louisiana Attorney General also has filed a lawsuit in state court against Allstate, other insurers, a consulting company, and two computer database companies. The
lawsuit is brought under the Louisiana Monopolies Act and generally alleges the defendants conspired to suppress competition and thwart policyholder recoveries. The defendants removed the matter to
federal court. Plaintiffs' motion to remand to state court is pending.
           Private
plaintiffs have filed    qui tam    actions under the Federal False Claims Act against Allstate and certain other insurers
in Louisiana and Mississippi federal courts regarding claims that they administered under the National Flood Insurance Program. The action brought in federal court in Louisiana has been dismissed.
Plaintiffs are appealing that dismissal. In the Mississippi action, Allstate has not yet been served. The U.S. Government has notified the federal court that it will not intervene at this juncture but
will continue to monitor the lawsuit and reserve its right to intervene in the future.    

The
various suits described above seek a variety of remedies, including actual and/or punitive damages in unspecified amounts and/or declaratory relief. The Company has been vigorously
defending these suits and other matters related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.   

          In
addition, the Company is responding to subpoenas and requests for information in connection with investigations into the insurance industry's handling of claims in the aftermath of
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. These investigations are being conducted by federal and state authorities, including a federal grand jury sitting in the Southern District of Mississippi. Other insurers
have received similar subpoenas and requests for information.   

          Allstate
is defending various lawsuits involving worker classification issues. These lawsuits include several certified class actions challenging the overtime exemption claimed by the
Company under the Fair Labor Standards Act or state wage and hour laws. In these cases, plaintiffs seek monetary relief, such as penalties and liquidated damages, and non-monetary relief,
such as injunctive relief. These class actions mirror similar lawsuits filed against other carriers in the industry and other employers. Allstate is continuing to vigorously defend its worker
classification lawsuits.   

          The
Company is defending certain matters relating to the Company's agency program reorganization announced in 1999. These matters are in various stages of development.   

These
matters include a lawsuit filed in 2001 by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC") alleging retaliation under federal civil rights laws (the "EEOC I"
suit) and a class action filed in 2001 by former employee agents alleging retaliation and age discrimination under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA"), breach of contract and ERISA
violations (the "Romero I" suit). In 2004, in the consolidated EEOC I and Romero I litigation, the trial court issued a memorandum and order that, among other things, certified classes of agents,
including a mandatory class of agents who had signed a release, for purposes of effecting the    
 
  204  

court's
declaratory judgment that the release is voidable at the option of the release signer. The court also ordered that an agent who voids the release must return to Allstate "any and all benefits
received by the [agent] in exchange for signing the release." The court also stated that, "on the undisputed facts of record, there is no basis for claims of age
discrimination." The EEOC and plaintiffs have asked the court to clarify and/or reconsider its memorandum and order and in January 2007, the judge denied their request. In June 2007, the court granted
the Company's motions for summary judgment. Following plaintiffs' filing of a notice of appeal, the Third Circuit issued an order in December 2007 stating that the notice of appeal was not taken from
a final order within the meaning of the federal law and thus not appealable at this time. Responses to the order were filed in mid-December.   

The
EEOC also filed another lawsuit in 2004 alleging age discrimination with respect to a policy limiting the rehire of agents affected by the agency program reorganization
(the "EEOC II" suit). In EEOC II, in 2006, the court granted partial summary judgment to the EEOC. Although the court did not determine that the Company was liable for age discrimination under the
ADEA, it determined that the rehire policy resulted in a disparate impact, reserving for trial the determination on whether the Company had reasonable factors other than age to support the rehire
policy. The Company's interlocutory appeal of the trial court's summary judgment order is now pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit.
           The
Company is also defending a certified class action filed by former employee agents who terminated their employment prior to the agency program reorganization. These
plaintiffs have asserted breach of contract and ERISA claims. The court approved the form of class notice which was sent to approximately 1,800 potential class members in November 2007. Fifteen
individuals opted out. The Company has moved for judgment on the pleadings and summary judgment.
           A
putative nationwide class action has also been filed by former employee agents alleging various violations of ERISA, including a worker classification issue. These
plaintiffs are challenging certain amendments to the Agents Pension Plan and are seeking to have exclusive agent independent contractors treated as employees for benefit purposes. This matter was
dismissed with prejudice by the trial court, was the subject of further proceedings on appeal, and was reversed and remanded to the trial court in 2005. In June 2007, the court granted Allstate's
motion to dismiss the case. Following plaintiffs' filing of a notice of appeal, the Third Circuit issued an order in December 2007 stating that the notice of appeal was not taken from a final order
within the meaning of the federal law and thus not appealable at this time. Responses to the order were filed in mid-December.    

In
all of these various matters, plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages, and equitable relief. Allstate has been vigorously defending these lawsuits and other matters related
to its agency program reorganization.   

          The
Company is vigorously defending its homeowners insurance rates in administrative actions filed by the Texas and California Departments of Insurance. The Departments are focusing on
the reasonableness of the Company's rates for the risks to which they apply.   

In
2004, the Company made a rate filing requesting to reduce its rates by approximately 1.5%. In December 2004, the Texas Commissioner of Insurance disapproved that filing
and began proceedings to disapprove the Company's then current rates. Following an administrative hearing process, in 2006, the Commissioner ordered the Company to reduce its then current homeowners
rates by 5% and to pay refunds on the difference plus interest back to December 30, 2004, for which the Company has been accruing. The Company implemented a 5% rate decrease occurring    
 
  205  

in
two stages, but challenged this 2006 refund order in the Travis County, Texas district court. In March 2007, the district court affirmed in whole the Texas Commissioner's rate refund order. In
April 2007, the Company appealed the judgment of the district court to the Third Court of Appeals, Austin, Texas. This appeal remains pending.   

Allstate
filed and implemented an 8% rate increase in August 2007 and immediately received an order from the Texas Commissioner of Insurance disapproving the rate change. In
addition, in October 2007 the Commissioner ordered the Company to pay refunds of its homeowners rates amounting to approximately 6.5% for the period between August 20, 2007 and
October 5, 2007, and refunds of approximately 18.5% for the period following October 5, 2007, plus interest. The Company was granted a permanent injunction that allows the Company's
August rate change to stay in place while the Company defends the rate change in disputing the refund order. The Company has filed a petition for an administrative hearing with respect to the refund
order.
           The
Company also is vigorously defending its homeowners rates in response to an Order to Show Cause issued by the California Department of Insurance ("CDI"). The CDI is
seeking an order directing Allstate to issue refunds to its California homeowners customers for rates dating to May 2007 based upon the allegation that Allstate's current rates are excessive. The CDI
has issued a Notice initiating an administrative hearing with respect to the Order to Show Cause. The CDI has acknowledged that an action seeking refunds from an insurer charging approved rates based
solely on an allegation of excessiveness is unprecedented, and Allstate maintains that this action is inconsistent with California's prior approval ratemaking scheme and not authorized under
California law.    

Other Matters      

          Various other legal, governmental, and regulatory actions, including state market conduct exams, and other governmental and regulatory inquiries are currently
pending that involve the Company and specific aspects of its conduct of business. Like other members of the insurance industry, the Company is the target of a number of class action lawsuits and other
types of proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts. These actions are based on a variety of issues and target a range of the Company's practices. The outcome
of these disputes is currently unpredictable.   

          One
or more of these matters could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual period. However, based on information
currently known to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome of all matters described in this "Other Matters" subsection, in excess of amounts currently reserved, as they are resolved over
time is not likely to have a material effect on the operating results, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

Shareholder Derivative Suit     

          On January 18, 2008, a shareholder derivative action was filed, purportedly on behalf of The Allstate Corporation, against the members of its Board of
Directors, in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division. This derivative action alleges breaches of fiduciary duties, abuse of control, gross
mismanagement, and waste of corporate assets in connection with Allstate's actions to protect certain documents from public disclosure in litigation and regulatory proceedings. The complaint further
alleges wrongdoing with respect to Allstate's claim handling. According to the allegations, the director defendants conspired to approve or permit these alleged wrongs to occur and participated in
efforts to conceal them from Allstate's stockholders. Plaintiff alleges that these actions have resulted in a variety of sanctions and adverse orders being entered against Allstate by various courts
and the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages. The defendants have not yet filed their response to the complaint.   

  206  

Asbestos and environmental     

          Allstate's reserves for asbestos claims were $1.30 billion and $1.38 billion, net of reinsurance recoverables of $752 million and
$823 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Reserves for environmental claims were $232 million and $194 million, net of reinsurance recoverables of
$107 million and $55 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Approximately 63% and 67% of the total net asbestos and environmental reserves at December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, were for incurred but not reported estimated losses.   

Management
believes its net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and
regulations. However, establishing net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other types of
claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimate. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long reporting
delays, uncertainty as to the number
and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the determination, availability and timing of exhaustion of
policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability, availability and collectibility of recoveries from reinsurance, retrospectively determined premiums and other contractual
agreements; and estimating the extent and timing of any contractual liability, and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of various insurance policy
provisions and whether those losses are covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements.
Courts have reached different and sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there
is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are determined; how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage.
Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future, and the ultimate cost may vary materially from the amounts currently recorded resulting in an increase in loss
reserves. In addition, while the Company believes that improved actuarial techniques and databases have assisted in its ability to estimate asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines net
loss reserves, these refinements may subsequently prove to be inadequate indicators of the extent of probable losses. Due to the uncertainties and factors described above, management believes it is
not practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

14.  Income Taxes     

          The Company and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. Tax liabilities and benefits realized by the consolidated group
are allocated as generated by the respective entities.   

          The
Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") is currently examining the Company's 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns. The IRS has completed its examination of the Company's federal income
tax returns for 2003-2004 and the case is under consideration at the IRS Appeals Office. The Company's tax years prior to 2003 have been examined by the IRS and the statute of limitations
has expired on those years. Any adjustments that may result from IRS examinations of tax returns are not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations, cash flows or financial
position of the Company.   

  207  

The
reconciliation of the change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits since the adoption of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007 is as follows:   

($ in millions)    
     
   2007    

Balance, beginning of year   
     
  $  
  48  

Increase for tax positions taken in a prior year  

2  

Decrease for tax positions taken in a prior year  

Increase for tax positions taken in the current year  

15  

Decrease for tax positions taken in the current year  

Settlements  

11  

Reductions due to lapse of statute of limitations  

Balance, end of year   
     
  $  
  76  

The Company believes it is reasonably possible that the liability balance will be reduced by $76 million within the next twelve months with
the resolution of an outstanding issue resulting from the IRS examination of the 2003 and 2004 tax returns. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, recognition of previously unrecognized tax
benefits is not expected to impact the Company's effective tax rate.   

          The
Company recognizes interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company recorded $1 million of interest in income tax expense in 2007
relating to unrecognized tax benefits. At December 31, 2007, total interest accrued with respect to unrecognized tax benefits was $7 million. No amounts have been accrued for penalties.   

          The
components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 31 are as follows:   

Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances,
will be realized based on the assumption that certain levels of income will be achieved. The total amount of the valuation allowance reducing deferred tax assets was $6 million and
$5 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

  208  

The
components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

The Company paid income taxes of $2.03 billion, $1.64 billion and $1.06 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The
Company had a current income tax receivable of $155 million and $20 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          A
reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate on income from operations for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

15.  Statutory Financial Information     

          Allstate's domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices
prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include a variety of publications of the NAIC, as well as state laws,
regulations and general administrative rules. Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices not so prescribed.   

All
states require domiciled insurance companies to prepare statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual, subject to any
deviations prescribed or permitted by the applicable insurance commissioner and/or director.   

          Statutory
accounting practices differ from GAAP primarily since they require charging policy acquisition and certain sales inducement costs to expense as incurred, establishing life
insurance reserves based on different actuarial assumptions, and valuing investments and establishing deferred taxes on a different basis.   

Statutory
net income and capital and surplus of Allstate's domestic insurance subsidiaries, determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by
insurance regulatory authorities are as follows:   

209  

The Property-Liability statutory capital and surplus balances above exclude wholly-owned subsidiaries included in the Allstate Financial segment.   

   Dividends     

          The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent on business conditions, income, cash requirements of the Company, receipt of dividends from AIC and other
relevant factors. The payment of shareholder dividends by AIC without the prior approval of the state insurance regulator is limited to formula amounts based on net income and capital and surplus,
determined in conformity with statutory accounting practices, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. Notification and approval of intercompany lending
activities is also required by the Illinois Department of Insurance ("IL DOI") for transactions that exceed a level that is based on a formula using statutory admitted assets and statutory surplus.   

          AIC
paid dividends of $4.92 billion in 2007, which was less than the maximum amount allowed under Illinois insurance law without the prior approval of the IL DOI based on 2006
formula amounts. Based on 2007 AIC statutory net income, the maximum amount of dividends AIC will be able to pay without prior IL DOI approval at a given point in time during 2008 is
$4.96 billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve months measured at that point in time.   

   16.  Benefit Plans     

   Pension and other postretirement plans     

          Defined benefit pension plans cover most full-time employees, certain part-time employees and employee-agents. Benefits under the pension plans are based upon the
employee's length of service and eligible annual compensation. A cash balance formula was added to the Allstate Retirement Plan effective January 1, 2003. All eligible employees hired before
August 1, 2002 were provided with a one-time opportunity to choose between the cash balance formula and the final average pay formula. The cash balance formula applies to all eligible employees
hired after August 1, 2002.   

          The
Company also provides certain health care and life insurance subsidies for employees hired before January 1, 2003 when they retire ("postretirement benefits"). Qualified
employees may become eligible for
these benefits if they retire in accordance with the Company's established retirement policy and are continuously insured under the Company's group plans or other approved plans in accordance with the
plan's participation requirements. The Company shares the cost of the retiree medical benefits with retirees based on years of service, with the Company's share being subject to a 5% limit on annual
medical cost inflation after retirement. The Company has the right to modify or terminate these pension and postretirement benefit plans.   

  210  

Obligations and funded status     

          The Company calculates benefit obligations based upon generally accepted actuarial methodologies using the PBO for pension plans and the APBO for other
postretirement plans. The determination of pension costs and other postretirement obligations as of December 31 are determined using an October 31 measurement date, but as described in
Note 2, will be transitioned to a December 31 measurement date on December 31, 2008 under the guidance of SFAS No. 158. The benefit obligations represent the actuarial
present value of all benefits attributed to employee service rendered. The PBO is measured using the pension benefit formula and assumptions as to future compensation levels. A plan's funded status is
calculated as the difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. The Company's funding policy for the pension plans is to make annual contributions at a minimum level
that is at least in accordance with regulations under the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") and in accordance with generally accepted actuarial principles. The Company's postretirement benefits plans are
not funded.   

          The
components of the plans' funded status that are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, are as follows:   

The decrease of $895 million in the pension net actuarial loss during 2007 is related to asset returns in excess of expected returns and an
increase in the discount rate. The majority of the $796 million net actuarial pension benefit losses not yet recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in 2007 reflects the effect
of increases in the PBO resulting from decreases in the discount rate in prior years, and the impact of unfavorable equity market conditions on the value of the pension plan assets in prior years. The
decrease of $299 million in the OPEB net actuarial gain during 2007 is primarily related to favorable claims experience. The favorable effects of the increase in the discount rate were offset
by an increase in the weighted average health care cost trend rate and other assumptions.   

  211  

The
change in 2007 in items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost, which is recorded in Net funded status of pension and other postretirement obligation, is shown in the
table below.   

($ in millions)    
     
   Pension 
benefits    
     
   Postretirement 
benefits    

Items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost  
December 31, 2006  
     
  $  
  1,677  
     
  $  
  28  

Net actuarial (gain) loss arising during the period  

(755  
  )  
     
  (300  
  )  

Net actuarial gain (loss) amortized to net periodic benefit cost  

(151  
  )  
     
  (1  
  )  

Prior service cost arising during the period  

41  

Prior service (cost) credit amortized to net periodic benefit cost  

2  

1  

Translation adjustment and other  

12  

2  

Items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost  
December 31, 2007  
     
  $  
  785  
     
  $  
  (229  
  )  

The net actuarial (gain) loss is recognized as a component of net periodic cost amortized over the average remaining service period of active
employees expected to receive benefits. Estimates of the net actuarial (gain) loss and prior service cost (credit) expected to be recognized as component of net periodic benefit cost during 2008 are
shown in the table below.   

($ in millions)    
     
   Pension 
benefits    
     
   Postretirement 
benefits    

Net actuarial (gain) loss  
     
  $  
  34  
     
  $  
  (21  
  )  

Prior service cost (credit)  

(2  
  )  
     
  1  

The accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") for all defined benefit pension plans was $4.42 billion and $4.46 billion at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The ABO is the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered at the measurement date.
However, it differs from the PBO due to the exclusion of an assumption as to future compensation levels.   

          The
PBO, ABO and fair value of plan assets for the Company's pension plans with an ABO in excess of plan assets were $175 million, $175 million, and $5 million,
respectively as of December 31, 2007, and $246 million, $181 million, and $3 million, respectively as of December 31, 2006. Included in the accrued benefit cost of
the pension benefits are certain unfunded non-qualified plans with accrued benefit costs of $170 million and $177 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

  212  

The
changes in benefit obligations for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    In
2007, the Company amended its postretirement benefits plan to allow Exclusive Agent Independent contractors who met eligibility requirements at the time of conversion from an
employee agent, to enroll in the retiree medical plan under certain circumstances.    

          Benefits paid include lump sum distributions, a portion of which may trigger settlement accounting treatment.   

Components of net periodic cost     

          The components of net periodic cost for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    In
2005, the Company recognized $19 million and $4 million pre-tax for pension and postretirement benefits, respectively, related to a non-recurring increase
in liability for future benefits of a discontinued benefit plan.
      (2)    In
2006, the Company recognized a $142 million pre-tax non-cash settlement charge as a result of higher lump sum payments to participants of the Company's pension plans.    
  213  

Assumptions     

          Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost for the years ended December 31 are:   

Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, based on an October 31 measurement date, are:   

The weighted average health care cost trend rate used in measuring the accumulated postretirement benefit cost is 8.5% for 2008, gradually
declining to 5.0% in 2015 and remaining at that level thereafter.   

          Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement health care plans. A one percentage-point increase in assumed health care
cost trend rates would increase the total of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by $7 million and
$64 million, respectively. A one percentage-point decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates would decrease the total of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit
cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by $6 million and $52 million, respectively.   

   Pension Plan Assets     

          The pension plans target percentage of plan assets at 2007 and the actual percentage of plan assets, by asset category at December 31 are as follows:   

214  

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. This assumption is reviewed annually giving consideration to
appropriate financial data including, but not limited to, the plan asset allocation, the period over which benefits will be paid, historical returns on plan assets and other relevant market data. A
consistent method was used to determine the expected long-term return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2007 and 2006 of 8.5%. As of the 2007 measurement date, the arithmetic average of
the annual actual return on plan assets for the most recent 10 and 5 years was 9.1% and 13.7%, respectively.   

          Pension
plan assets include $11 million and $12 million of the Company's common stock at December 31, 2007 and 2006. No plan assets are expected to be returned to
the Company during 2008.   

          The
change in pension plan assets for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Cash Flows     

          There was no minimum funding requirement under the IRC for the tax qualified pension plans as of December 31, 2007. The Company currently plans to
contribute $150 million to its pension plans in 2008.   

          The
Company contributed $45 million and $38 million to the postretirement benefit plans in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Contributions by participants were
$41 million and $40 million in 2007 and 2006.   

Estimated Future Benefit Payments     

          Estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid in the next 10 years, based on the assumptions used to measure the Company's benefit obligation at
December 31, 2007, and the estimated subsidy to be received are as follows:   

Profit sharing plans     

          Employees of the Company, with the exception of those employed by the Company's international subsidiaries and Sterling Collision Centers ("Sterling") subsidiary,
are eligible to become members of The Savings and Profit Sharing Fund of Allstate Employees ("Allstate Plan"). The Company's contributions are based on the Company's matching obligation and
performance. The Company is responsible for funding   

  215  

its
anticipated contribution to the Allstate Plan, and may, at the discretion of management, use the ESOP to pre-fund certain portions. In connection with the Allstate Plan, the Company has a note
from the ESOP with a principal balance of $27 million at December 31, 2007. The ESOP note has a fixed interest rate of 7.9% and matures in 2019. The Company records dividends on the ESOP
shares in retained income and all the shares held by the ESOP are included in basic and diluted weighted average common shares outstanding.   

          The
Company's contribution to the Allstate Plan was $124 million, $127 million and $48 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These amounts were reduced by
the ESOP benefit computed for the years ended December 31 as follows:   

The Company contributed $13 million, $13 million and $16 million to the ESOP in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At
December 31, 2007, total committed to be released, allocated and unallocated ESOP shares were 2 million, 31 million and 6 million, respectively.   

          Allstate
has profit sharing plans for eligible employees of its Canadian insurance subsidiaries and Sterling. Profit sharing expense for these plans was $8 million,
$9 million and $10 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

17.  Equity Incentive Plans     

          The Company currently has two equity incentive plans that permit it to grant nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted or unrestricted
shares of the Company's stock and restricted stock units to certain employees and directors of the Company. The total compensation expense related to equity awards was $90 million,
$98 million and $87 million and the total income tax benefits were $30 million, $34 million and $31 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. Total cash received from the exercise of options was $109 million, $239 million and $281 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. Total tax benefit realized on options exercised and stock unrestricted was $43 million, $67 million and $75 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          The
Company records compensation expense related to awards under these plans over the vesting period of each grant. The Company records compensation expense for employees eligible for
continued vesting upon retirement over the vesting period to the date that the employee is eligible for retirement. As of December 31, 2007, total unrecognized compensation cost related to all
nonvested awards was $99 million, which is expected to be recognized over the weighted average vesting period of 2.15 years.   

Options
are granted under the plans at exercise prices equal to the fair value of the Company's common stock on the applicable grant date. The options granted under the Allstate plans
generally vest ratably over a four-year period. For directors, vesting is generally over a three-year period. The options granted may be exercised once vested and will expire ten years after the date
of grant unless the employee or director retires. After retirement, employee stock options vest as scheduled. For directors, vesting accelerates to the date of retirement. When the options become
vested, they may be exercised on   

  216  

or
before the earlier of the option expiration date or the fifth anniversary of the employee's or director's retirement. Restricted stock and restricted stock units generally vest and unrestrict in
full on the fourth anniversary of the grant date, except for directors which vest immediately and unrestrict one year after leaving the board. The awards are subject to forfeiture upon termination.
For terminations due to retirement, shares continue to unrestrict as provided for in the original grant. As disclosed in Note 12, in 2006 the Company accelerated the vesting of stock-based
incentive compensation as a one-time benefit for employees electing its VTO program.   

A
total of 49.6 million shares of common stock were originally authorized to be used for awards under the plans, subject to adjustment in accordance with the plans' terms. At
December 31, 2007, 18.8 million shares
were reserved and remained available for future issuance under these plans. The Company uses its treasury shares for these issuances.   

          The
fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee
termination within the valuation model. In addition, separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. The expected term of
options granted is derived from the output of the binominal lattice model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility of fair value
is implied based on traded options and historical volatility of the Company's common stock. The expected dividends are based on the current dividend yield of the Company's stock as of the date of the
grant. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The assumptions used are shown in the
following table.   

A summary of option activity for the year ended December 31, 2007 is shown in the following table.   

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $16.08, $15.25 and $14.52 during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively. The intrinsic value, which is the   

  217  

difference
between the fair value and the exercise price, of options exercised was $68 million, $149 million and $169 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively. The total fair value of options vested was $57 million, $61 million and $80 million during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.   

          The
changes in restricted stock and restricted stock units are shown in the following table for the year ended December 31, 2007.   

The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is based on the market value of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The
market value in part reflects the payment of future dividends expected. The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units granted was $61.75, $54.10 and $53.12
during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The total fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units vested was $34 million, $7 million and $0.3 million during the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

          The
following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if SFAS No. 123 had been applied to all outstanding and unvested options during 2005.   

($ in millions, except per share data)      
     
   2005    

Net income, as reported (1)   
     
  $  
  1,765  

Add: Stock option expense included in reported net income, 
after-tax  

31  

Deduct: Total stock option expense determined under fair value based method for all options, after-tax  

(46  
  )  

Pro forma net income  
     
  $  
  1,750  

Earnings per share basic  

As reported  
     
  $  
  2.67  

Pro forma  

2.64  

Earnings per share diluted  

As reported  

2.64  

Pro forma  

2.62  

(1)    In
2005, the Company recognized a total of $21 million after-tax related to the acceleration of deferred compensation expense on unvested stock awards granted to employees
eligible for continued vesting upon retirement including $12 million after-tax on unvested stock options (included in the table above) and $9 million after-tax on restricted stock.    

The tax benefit realized in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related to tax deductions from stock option exercises and included in shareholders' equity was
$20 million, $47 million and $56 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related to all stock-based compensation and credited directly to
shareholders' equity was $30 million, $53 million and $62 million, respectively.   

  218  

18.  Business Segments     

Allstate management is organized around products and services, and this structure is considered in the identification of its four reportable segments. These
segments and their respective operations are as follows:   

             Allstate Protection    sells principally private passenger auto and homeowners insurance in the United States and Canada. Revenues from
external customers generated outside the United States were $668 million, $614 million and $578 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon underwriting results.   

Discontinued Lines and Coverages    consists of business no longer written by Allstate, including results from asbestos, environmental and
other discontinued lines claims, and certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. This segment also includes the historical results of the commercial and reinsurance businesses sold in 1996.
The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon underwriting results.   

             Allstate Financial    sells life insurance, retirement and investment products and voluntary accident and health insurance products to
individual and institutional customers. The principal individual products are fixed annuities; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance.
The principal institutional product is funding agreements backing medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual investors. Banking products and services are also offered to customers
through the Allstate Bank. Revenues from external customers generated outside the United States were immaterial with respect to Allstate Financial total revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon operating income.   

             Corporate and Other    comprises holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.   

          Allstate
Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages together comprise Property-Liability. The Company does not allocate Property-Liability investment income, realized capital gains
and losses, or assets to the Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments. Management reviews assets at the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial, and Corporate and Other levels
for decision-making purposes.   

          The
accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those described in Note 2. The effects of certain inter-segment transactions are excluded from segment performance
evaluation and therefore eliminated in the segment results.   

   Measuring segment profit or loss     

          The measure of segment profit or loss used by Allstate's management in evaluating performance is underwriting income (loss) for the Allstate Protection and
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments and operating income (loss) for Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments. A reconciliation of these measures to net income is provided below.   

             Underwriting income (loss)    is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expenses ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating
costs and expenses, and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.   

             Operating income (loss)    is net income (loss) excluding:   

realized
capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized
capital gains and losses but included in operating income,    
 
  219  

amortization
of DAC and DSI, to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital gains and losses,
           (gain)
loss on disposition of operations, after-tax, and
           adjustments
for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably
unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.    
 
  220  

Summarized revenue data for each of the Company's business segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating costs and expenses.    
  221  

Summarized financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    Non-recurring
items include a 2006 write-off of present value of future profits related to a block of corporate owned life insurance policies that terminated due to
bankruptcy of the policyholder and an increase in liability which occurred in 2005 for future benefits from a discontinued benefit plan.
      (2)    For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating costs and expenses.    
  222  

Additional significant financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as
follows:   

Interest expense is primarily incurred in the Corporate and Other segment. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are generally
made in the Property-Liability segment. A portion of these long-lived assets are used by entities included in the Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments, and accordingly, are
charged expenses in proportion to their use.   

          Summarized
data for total assets and investments for each of the Company's reportable segments as of December 31 are as follows:   

The balances above reflect the elimination of related party investments between the Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments. The
composition of the segments was revised in 2006. The loan protection business previously managed by Allstate Financial is now being managed by Allstate Protection. The revenue results of this business
are included in other property-liability insurance premiums earned in 2007 and 2006, and in accident and health and other in life and annuity premiums and contract charges in 2005. Goodwill related to
this business totaling $116 million was also reflected in the Allstate Financial segment in 2005 and Property-Liability in 2006 and 2007. The amounts are not material and therefore the segment
results for prior periods have not been reclassified.   

  223  

19.  Other Comprehensive Income     

          The components of other comprehensive (loss) income on a pre-tax and after-tax basis for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

20.  Quarterly Results (unaudited)     

224  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF 
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION     

          We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related Consolidated Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income, Shareholders' Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2007. We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in    Internal
Control Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying    Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

  225  

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

          As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and accounting for deferred
acquisition costs associated with internal replacements in 2007 and defined pension and other postretirement plans in 2006.   

  Deloitte  
Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 26, 2008   

  226  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     

          None.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures     

           Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.         We maintain disclosure controls and procedures as defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the
principal executive officer and the principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance that material information required
to be disclosed in our reports filed with or submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified by the Securities Exchange Act and made known to management, including the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure.   

           Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.         Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 based on the criteria related to internal control over financial reporting described in "Internal
Control Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation,
management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.   

          Deloitte  
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K,
has issued their attestation report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting, which is included herein.   

           Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.         During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2007, there have
been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information     

          The following disclosures relate to actions taken by the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation and its committees on February 26, 2008 and would
otherwise have been reported during the first fiscal quarter of 2008 on a Form 8-K under the heading "Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of
Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers:"   

The
Registrant maintains two shareholder-approved plans under which executive officers have the opportunity to receive an annual cash award based on achievement with regard
to performance measures over a one-year period. The Annual Covered Employee Incentive Compensation Plan ("Covered Employee Plan") governs awards to those executive officers who are
considered "covered employees" as defined in Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. Annual incentive awards to all other executive officers are governed by and made under the Annual
Executive Incentive Compensation Plan ("Executive Plan"). The Compensation and Succession Committee establishes performance measures for each fiscal year and sets threshold, target and    
 
  227  

maximum
award opportunities. The Committee has the authority to adjust the amount of awards, but has no authority to increase the amount of an award otherwise payable under the Covered Employee Plan.
The Committee approved performance measures and target award opportunities under the plans for 2008. The same performance measures apply to both the Covered Employee Plan and Executive Plan. These
performance measures and target awards are described on Exhibit 10.5.   

The
Registrant maintains a shareholder-approved Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan to provide certain executives, including the executive officers,
the opportunity to receive a cash award based on achievement with regard to performance measures over a three-year cycle. The Compensation and Succession Committee establishes performance
measures for each cycle and sets threshold, target and maximum award opportunities. The amount of each executive's payout is dependent on achievement with regard to the performance measures. The
Committee has the authority to adjust the amount of awards payable under the Plan, but has no authority to increase the amount of an award otherwise payable to a "covered employee" as defined in
Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Committee approved performance measures and target award opportunities for the 2008-2010 three-year performance
cycle. These performance measures and target awards are described on Exhibit 10.10.    

In
addition, on February 26, 2008:   

The
Registrant began entering into a revised form of Tier One Change of Control Employment Agreement to replace agreements currently in effect with the members of the Board
of Directors of Registrant's subsidiary Allstate Insurance Company.    

These
change of control arrangements are being revised in order to comply with recently adopted Internal Revenue Service regulations under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code regarding
deferred compensation ("409A Regulations").   

  They
also are being revised to eliminate certain benefits based on the recommendation of the Registrant's Compensation and Succession Committee and the advice of that Committee's executive
compensation consultant. Under the revised form of change of control agreement, an executive will no longer receive severance benefits for voluntarily terminating employment during the
13 th  month following a change of control. In order to receive severance benefits following a change of control, the executive must have been terminated by Allstate Insurance
Company or a subsidiary without cause or as a result of disability or the executive must have terminated employment for good reason (adverse changes in the terms or conditions of employment such as a
material reduction in base compensation, a material change in authority, duties or responsibilities, or a material change in job location). In addition, the amount payable to an executive who
terminates employment for good reason or who is terminated without cause or as a result of disability following a change of control will no longer include a component equal to three times the
executive's target annualized long-term cash incentive award. Furthermore, the benefits will be available to an executive who terminates employment for good reason or who is terminated
without cause or as a result of disability only if such termination occurs within two years (replacing the current three years) following the change of control.   

  The
revised form of Tier One Change of Control Agreement was approved by the Registrant's Board of Directors to be effective as of December 31, 2007. A copy of the revised form is attached
hereto as Exhibit 10.29.   

Edward
M. Liddy, Chairman of the Board of Registrant, and Danny L. Hale, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Registrant, terminated their change of control
employment agreements effective December 31, 2007. Both will be retiring in the spring of 2008 and will not be entering    
 
  228  

into
any new form of change of control arrangement. The form of termination is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.31.   

The
Registrant issued a press release announcing the following:

1.    Edward
M. Liddy, the Registrant's Chairman, will be retiring on April 30, 2008;
      2.    Thomas
J. Wilson, currently the Registrant's President and Chief Executive Officer, has been elected Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer effective May 1, 2008;
      3.    Danny
L. Hale, the Registrant's Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will be retiring on March 31, 2008; and
      4.    Samuel
H. Pilch, the Registrant's Controller, has been elected Acting Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective March 3, 2008.    

The
press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.   

229  

Part III     

   Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     

Information regarding directors of The Allstate Corporation standing for election at the 2008 annual stockholders meeting is incorporated in this Item 10
by reference to the descriptions in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Items to be Voted On Item 1. Election of Directors."   

          The
following information pertains to directors who will not be standing for re-election to the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation: James G. Andress and Edward M.
Liddy.   

          James
G. Andress, age 69, has served as Director of The Allstate Corporation since 1993. Mr. Andress has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Warner
Chilcott PLC, a pharmaceutical company, from February 1997 until his retirement in January 2000. Mr. Andress also is a director of Sepracor, Inc., Warner Chilcott and Xoma
Corporation.   

          Edward
M. Liddy, age 62, has served as Director and Chairman of The Allstate Corporation since 1999. Mr. Liddy previously served as Chief Executive Officer from January
1999 until December 2006. Mr. Liddy is also a director of The Boeing Company, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and 3M Company.   

          Information
regarding our audit committee and audit committee financial experts is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to the first paragraph of the discussion under the
captions "Corporate Governance Practices Board Committees Audit Committee" in the Proxy Statement.   

          Information
regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to "Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy Statement.   

          Information
regarding executive officers of The Allstate Corporation is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to Part I, Item 1 of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers."   

          We
have adopted a code of ethics that applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and controller. The text of our code of
ethics is posted on our Internet website, Allstate.com.   

   Item 11. Executive Compensation     

          Information required for Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the following captions:   

Corporate
Governance Practices Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
           Corporate
Governance Practices Directors' Compensation and Benefits
           Executive
Compensation    

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     

Information
regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated in this Item 12 by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the
following captions:   

Security
Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers
           Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners    
 
  230  

Equity Compensation Plan Information     

          The following table includes information as of December 31, 2007 with respect to The Allstate Corporation's equity compensation plans:   

(1)    Consists
of the Equity Incentive Plan, the Amended and Restated 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, Equity Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors and the 2006 Equity
Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
      (2)    Outstanding
restricted stock units ("RSUs") convert to common stock without the payment of consideration. As of December 31, 2007, 1,819,132 RSUs were outstanding. The
weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights excluding RSUs was $47.54.
      (3)    Includes
18,302,014 shares that may be issued in the form of stock options, unrestricted stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance
units, performance stock and stock in lieu of cash under the Amended and Restated 2001 Equity Incentive Plan; and 465,773 shares that may be issued in the form of stock options, unrestricted
stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock in lieu of cash compensation under the 2006 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.    

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     

Information required for Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Related Person Transactions" and
"Corporate Governance Practices Determinations of Independence of Nominees for Election."   

   Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services     

          Information required for Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Items to be Voted
On Item 2. Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accountant."   

  231  

Part IV     

   Item 15. (a) (1) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.     

The following consolidated financial statements, notes thereto and related information of The Allstate Corporation (the "Company") are included in Item 8.   

  Consolidated
Statements of Operations   

  Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income   

  Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position   

  Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders' Equity   

  Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows   

  Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements   

  Quarterly
Results   

  Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

   Item 15. (a) (2)     

          The following additional financial statement schedules and independent auditors' report are furnished herewith pursuant to the requirements of
Form 10-K.   

The Allstate Corporation      
     
   Page    

Schedules required to be filed under the provisions of Regulation S-X Article 7:  

Schedule I  

Summary of Investments Other than Investments in Related Parties  

S-1  

Schedule II  
     
  Condensed Financial Information of The Allstate Corporation (Registrant)  
     
  S-2  

Schedule III  
     
  Supplementary Insurance Information  
     
  S-6  

Schedule IV  
     
  Reinsurance  
     
  S-7  

Schedule V  
     
  Valuation Allowances and Qualifying Accounts  
     
  S-8  

Schedule VI  
     
  Supplementary Information Concerning Consolidated Property-Casualty Insurance Operations  
     
  S-9  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  S-10  

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or in notes thereto.   

   Item 15. (a) (3)     

          The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The exhibit numbers followed by an asterisk (*) indicate exhibits that
are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. The SEC File Number for the exhibits incorporated by reference is 1-11840.   

3(i)  
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 17, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K
dated May 11, 2007  

3(ii)  

Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Allstate Corporation effective February 20, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2006  

232  

4(iii)  

The Allstate Corporation hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request, the instruments defining the rights of holders of each issue of long-term debt of it and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

10.1  

Credit Agreement dated May 8, 2007, among The Allstate Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company, as borrowers; the Lenders party thereto, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Syndication Agent; Bank of
America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Documentation Agents; Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB, Merrill Lynch Bank USA, Morgan Stanley Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Co-Agents; and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent;
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K dated May 3, 2007  

10.2*  

The Allstate Corporation Annual Covered Employee Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective November 13, 2007  

10.3*  

The Allstate Corporation Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of November 13, 2007  

10.4*  

The Allstate Corporation Annual Incentive Plans Performance Goals and Target Awards for 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2006  

10.5*  

The Allstate Corporation Annual Incentive Plans Performance Goals and Target Awards for 2008  

10.6*  

The Allstate Corporation Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective November 13, 2007  

10.7*  

The Allstate Corporation Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Goals and Target Awards for the 2003-2005, 2004-2006, and 2005-2007 Cycles, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to The Allstate Corporation
annual report on Form 10-K for 2005  

10.8*  

The Allstate Corporation Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Goals and Target Awards for the 2006-2008 Cycle, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on
Form 10-K for 2005  

10.9*  

The Allstate Corporation Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Goals and Target Awards for the 2007-2009 Cycle, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on
Form 10-K for 2006  

10.10*  

The Allstate Corporation Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan Performance Goals and Target Awards for the 2008-2010 Cycle  

10.11*  

The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of May 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The Allstate Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2004  

10.12*  

The Allstate Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective February 20, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for
2006  

10.13*  

Form of Executive Officer Option Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation Amended and Restated 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed
July 20, 2006  

10.14*  

Form of Executive Officer Option Award Agreement dated May 15, 2001 under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to The Allstate Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2001  

233  

10.15*  

Form of Executive Officer Option Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2003  

10.16*  

Form of Executive Officer Restricted Stock Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for
2003  

10.17*  

Form of Executive Officer Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for
2005  

10.18*  

The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective February 20, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2006  

10.19*  

Form of stock option under The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 1999  

10.20*  

Form of stock option with reload under The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 1999  

10.21*  

Form of restricted stock grant under The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 1999  

10.22*  

Allstate Insurance Company Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 1996, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for
1995  

10.23*  

Retirement Benefits of Edward M. Liddy, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2003  

10.24*  

Retirement Benefits of Casey J. Sylla, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2005  

10.25*  

CEO Change of Control Employment Agreement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Allstate Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999  

10.26*  

Form of Other Executive Officer Change of Control Employment Agreement Tier One, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to The Allstate Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31,
1999  

10.27*  

Form of Other Executive Officer Change of Control Employment Agreement Tier One, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2002  

10.28*  

Form of Other Executive Officer Change of Control Employment Agreement Tier Two, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2003  

10.29*  

Form of Tier One Change of Control Employment Agreement first entered into on February 26, 2008 to be effective as of December 31, 2007  

10.30*  

Form of Tier Two Change of Control Employment Agreement first entered into on February 26, 2008 to be effective as of December 31, 2007  

10.31*  

Form of Termination of Change of Control Employment Agreement  

234  

Item 15. (b)     

          The exhibits are listed in Item 15. (a)(3) above.   

   Item 15. (c)     

          The financial statement schedules are listed in Item 15. (a)(2) above.   

  235  

SIGNATURES     

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION 
(Registrant)  

/s/    SAMUEL H. PILCH            

By:  
     
  Samuel H. Pilch 
(Controller)  

February 26, 2008  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacity and on the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Title    
     
   Date    

/s/    THOMAS J. WILSON             Thomas J. Wilson  
     
  President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  February 26, 2008  

/s/    DANNY L. HALE             Danny L. Hale  

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  

February 26, 2008  

/s/    EDWARD M. LIDDY             Edward M. Liddy  

Chairman of the Board of Directors and a Director  

February 26, 2008  

/s/    F. DUANE ACKERMAN             F. Duane Ackerman  

Director  

February 26, 2008  

James G. Andress  

Director  

February 26, 2008  

Robert D. Beyer  

Director  

February 26, 2008  

/s/    W. JAMES FARRELL             W. James Farrell  

Director  

February 26, 2008  

/s/    JACK M. GREENBERG             Jack M. Greenberg  

Director  

February 26, 2008  

Ronald T. LeMay  

Director  

February 26, 2008  

236  

237  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE I SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS 
OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES 
DECEMBER 31, 2007     

S-1  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-2  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED) CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION     

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-3  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED) CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-4  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED) CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION     

1.     General     

          The financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 8.
The short-term and long-term debt presented in Note 11 "Capital Structure" are direct obligations of the Company, with the exception of the following obligations at
December 31:   

2.     Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information     

          The Registrant paid $313 million, $319 million and $302 million of interest on debt in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   

  S-5  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE III SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION     

(1)    A
single investment portfolio supports both Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments.    
  S-6  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE IV REINSURANCE     

(1)    No
reinsurance or coinsurance income was netted against premium ceded in 2007, 2006 or 2005.    
  S-7  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE V VALUATION ALLOWANCES AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS     

S-8  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE VI SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONCERNING 
CONSOLIDATED PROPERTY-CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS     

S-9  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

   To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
The Allstate Corporation     

          We have audited the consolidated financial statements of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, and have issued our report thereon
dated February 26, 2008 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change in The Allstate Corporation's method of accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes and accounting for deferred acquisition costs associated with internal replacements in 2007, and defined pension and other postretirement plans in 2006); such consolidated
financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement
schedules of the Company listed in the accompanying index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 26, 2008   

  S-10  

<EX-10.2>
 2
 a2182971zex-10_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.2

Exhibit 10.2   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   

ANNUAL COVERED EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION
PLAN   

As
Amended and Restated Effective November 13, 2007   

1.              Purposes.   

The Plan s purposes are to provide cash
incentive compensation to Covered Employees to achieve annual performance
goals, and to maximize the deductibility of such compensation under Section
162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ).  

2.              Definitions .  

The following terms when used in the Plan
shall, for the purposes of the Plan, have the following meanings:  

a. 
 Award  means the cash amount payable to a Participant for a fiscal year
pursuant to the terms of the Plan.  

b.  Board  means the Board of Directors
of The Allstate Corporation.  

c. 
 Business Unit  means any operating unit of The Allstate Corporation or
any of its Subsidiaries, including but not limited to, the property and
casualty business, the life business, the investments business, or the
international business.  

d. 
 Committee  means two or more members of the Board who are  outside
directors  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations
thereunder.  

e. 
 Company  means The Allstate Corporation.  

f.   Covered Employee  means a Participant who is
a  Covered Employee  as defined in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.  

g.   Fiscal
Year  means the calendar year.  

h. 
 Participant  means an elected officer of the Company or a Subsidiary
who is a Covered Employee for the fiscal year or for any shorter period within
the fiscal year in which the Covered Employee is an employee of the Company or
of any Subsidiary.  

i.   Plan 
means the Annual Covered Employee Incentive Compensation Plan.  

1  

j. 
 Subsidiary  means any corporation of which the Company owns directly or
indirectly a majority of the outstanding shares of voting stock.  

3.              Administration of the
Plan.   

a. 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  Members of the Committee shall be appointed
by the Board.  

b. 
The Committee shall have the authority to make all determinations it
deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the
selection of Participants, and, subject to the limitations set forth herein,
the determination of the timing and amount of Awards made to each Participant,
and the establishment of objective and measurable performance standards ( performance
goals ) for earning Awards.  

c. 
The Committee shall have the authority to exercise discretion to
decrease the amount of any Award otherwise payable under the Plan, but the
Committee shall have no authority to increase the amount of any such Award.  

4.              Awards.   

a. 
Awards under the Plan shall consist of annual cash bonuses based solely
upon the degree of attainment of objective and measurable performance goals of
the Company and/or its Subsidiaries and/or Business Units over the fiscal year
or, if shorter, over the period within the fiscal year in which a Covered
Employee is an employee of the Company or of any Subsidiary.  

b. 
The Committee shall establish written performance goals within 90 days
after the beginning of the fiscal year (or, if the Covered Employee is not an
employee at the beginning of the fiscal year, within the first 25% of the
period within the fiscal year in which the Covered Employee is an employee),
and while the outcome of the performance goals is substantially uncertain.  Such performance goals shall be expressed in
terms of objective and measurable annual financial and/or operating criteria,
and may involve comparisons with respect to historical results of the Company
and its Subsidiaries and operating groups or Business Units thereof, as well as
comparisons with respect to peer group performance.  Performance goals shall be expressed using
one or more of the following measures of performance:  net income, operating income, return on
equity, earnings per share, return on assets, values of assets, revenues,
market share, prices of Company stock, or strategic business criteria
consisting of one or more Company, Subsidiary or Business Unit objectives based
on meeting specified revenue goals, market penetration goals, business
expansion goals, cost targets, customer retention goals, customer satisfaction
goals, or goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures.  The calculation is specifically defined at
the time the goal is set.  Each
performance goal must state, in terms of an objective formula or standard, the
Award payable to each Participant if the performance goal is attained.  

2  

c. No Award for any Participant for any
fiscal year may exceed $5,500,000.  

5.                                      Payment of Awards.   

a. 
Awards under the Plan shall be paid to Participants as soon as
practicable after the completion of the fiscal year audit and after the
Committee certifies that the performance goals and any other material terms
were in fact satisfied, but notwithstanding any other provision in this Plan to
the contrary, in no event before January 1 or after March 15 of the year
following the fiscal year in which the Award was earned.  Awards deferred at the Participant s election
shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of any deferred
compensation plan in which the Participant is eligible to participate.  

b. 
Awards shall be paid in cash, less required withholding, or for those
eligible may be deferred at the Participant s election, subject to the terms
and conditions of any deferred compensation plan in which the Participant is
eligible to participate.  

c. 
Unless the Committee has taken action under subsection 3.c. hereof prior
to payment of an Award, each Participant selected by the Committee for a fiscal
year who remains actively employed by the Company or a Subsidiary at the end of
the fiscal year shall be entitled to receive a payment of an Award earned
pursuant to the terms of the Plan with respect to such year.  

d. 
If a Participant s employment is terminated prior to completion of a
fiscal year for any reason other than as described in subsection 5.e. below,
the Participant will forfeit any Award otherwise payable for such fiscal year.  

e. 
If a Participant dies, retires or is disabled during the fiscal year,
and the Committee has not taken action under Section 3.c. hereof, the
Participant s Award will be prorated based on the number of Participant s half
months the Participant was eligible to participate during the fiscal year as an
elected officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  If a Participant dies before receipt of an
Award, the Award will be paid to the Participant s estate.  

f. 
Prorated Awards will be paid at the same time as regular Awards.  

6.              Miscellaneous.   

a. 
All amounts payable hereunder shall be payable only to the Participant
or his or her beneficiaries.  The rights
and interests of a Participant under the Plan may not be assigned, encumbered,
or transferred, voluntarily or involuntarily, other than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution.  

b. 
No individual shall have any claim or right to be a Participant in the
Plan at any time, and any individual s participation in the Plan may be
terminated at any time with or without notice, cause or regard to past
practices.  

3  

c. 
Neither the Plan nor any action hereunder shall confer on any person any
right to remain in the employ of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or
shall affect an employee s compensation not arising under the Plan.  Neither the adoption of the Plan nor its
operation shall in any way affect the right and power of the Company or any
Subsidiary to dismiss or discharge any employee at any time.  

d. 
The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to deduct from any
Award, prior to payment, the amount of any taxes required to be withheld by any
federal, state or local government with respect to such payments.  

e. 
The Committee may rely upon any information supplied to it by any
officer of the Company or any Subsidiary or by any independent accountant for
the Company and may rely upon the advice of counsel in connection with the
administration of the Plan and shall be fully protected in relying upon such
information or advice.  

f. 
All expenses and costs in connection with the administration of the Plan
shall be borne by the Company.  

g. 
The Plan and any agreements entered into thereunder shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois.  

7.              Amendment or Termination
of the Plan.   

The Board may suspend, terminate, modify
or amend the Plan;  provided ,  however , that any such action which
changes employees eligible to participate, the criteria set forth in subsection
4.b., or the maximum amount of an Award set forth in subsection 4.c., shall be
disclosed to and approved by the Company s stockholders.  Stockholder approval must be given by a
majority of the votes cast by the holders of Company shares represented in
person or by proxy at the annual meeting next following the date of any such
change.  

8.              Effective Date.   

The Plan was adopted by the Board of
Directors of the Company on March 9, 1999, and was approved by the Company s
stockholders on May 18, 1999.  The Plan
was amended and restated by the Board on March 9, 2004, and the material terms
of the performance goals of the Plan, as amended, were submitted to the Company s
stockholders for approval on May 18, 2004. 
The Plan was further amended and restated by the Board on November 13,
2007 to comply with Internal Revenue Code  409A.  

4  

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 3
 a2182971zex-10_3.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.3

Exhibit
10.3   

   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   

ANNUAL EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN   

As Amended and Restated November 13, 2007   

1.              Purposes.   

The purposes of the Annual Executive
Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ) are to:  

a.  

attract and
  retain talented employees;  

b.  

provide
  Participants with added incentives to promote various short-term performance
  goals, while taking into account the varying objectives and conditions of the
  different businesses engaged in by The Allstate Corporation and its
  Subsidiaries;  

c.  

link
  compensation to performance by tying a portion of annual pay to reaching
  annual financial goals;  

d.  

compensate
  executives at competitive levels when competitive performance is achieved,
  and at superior levels when performance exceeds competitors , and  

e.  

encourage
  teamwork among top executives.  

2.              Definitions.   

The following terms when used in the Plan
shall, for the purposes of the Plan, have the following meanings:  

a.    Award 
means the cash amount payable to a Participant for a fiscal year pursuant to
the terms of the Plan.  

b. 
  Board  means the Board of
Directors of The Allstate Corporation.  

c.    Business
Unit  means any operating unit of The Allstate Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries,
including but not limited to, the property and casualty business, the life
business, the investments business, or the international business.  

d. 
  Committee  means at least two
members of the Board who have been appointed by the Board to administer the
Plan.  

e.    Company  means The Allstate Corporation.  

1  

f.      Fiscal Year  means the calendar year.  

g.     Participant  means an elected officer of
the Company, or of any Subsidiary, selected by the Committee to participate in
the Plan for the fiscal year.  

h.     Plan 
means the Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.  

i.
     Subsidiary  means any corporation of which
the Company owns directly or indirectly 
a majority of the outstanding shares of voting stock.  

3.              Administration of the
Plan.   

a. 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  

b. 
The Committee shall have the authority to make all determinations it
deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the
selection of Participants, the determination of the timing and amount of Awards
made to each Participant, and the establishment of performance standards ( performance
goals ) for earning Awards.  

c. 
The Committee shall have the authority to exercise discretion in
determining the amounts of the Awards otherwise payable under the terms of the
Plan, and may increase or decrease such Awards.  

4.              Awards.   

a. 
Awards under the Plan shall consist of annual cash bonuses based upon
the degree of attainment of performance goals of the Company and/or its
Subsidiaries and/or Business Units thereof, where applicable, over the fiscal
year.  Awards to Participants who are  Covered
Employees  as defined in Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code shall be
payable solely for attainment of performance priority goals set forth in
Section 4.d., below.  

b. 
The Committee shall establish performance goals for each fiscal year at
a time while the outcome of the performance goals is substantially
uncertain.  Such performance goals may be
expressed in terms of annual financial, operating or other criteria, or any
combination thereof, using such measures of performance as the Committee
selects solely in its own discretion.   The
Committee may establish performance priority as a performance goal, the
attainment of which may result in the increase or decrease of an Award to any
Participant.  

c. 
A target Award shall be established for each fiscal year based upon the
Participant s position held with the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  The target Award will be determined as a
percentage of each Participant s base salary, and shall be payable as an Award
based upon attainment of performance goals for such year.  A maximum Award opportunity shall also be
established for each Participant.  

2  

d.  Awards under
the Plan for Covered Employees shall be granted solely on the basis of their
achievement of performance priority goals.  
Performance priority goals shall be strategic in nature, and designed to
further Company goals which are assigned to specific Participants to
accomplish.  Performance priority goals
shall be based on business criteria separate and distinct from any criteria applicable
to such Covered Employee under the Annual Covered Employee Incentive
Compensation Plan for the fiscal year.  

5.                                            Payment of Awards.   

a. 
Awards under the Plan shall be paid to Participants as soon as
practicable after the end of the fiscal year to which performance relates, and
after the Committee has approved the Awards, but notwithstanding any other
provision in this Plan to the contrary, in no event before January 1 or after
March 15 of the year following the fiscal year in which the Award was earned.  Awards deferred at the Participant s election
shall be paid in accordance with the terms and conditions of any deferred
compensation plan in which the Participant is eligible to participate.  

b. 
Awards shall be paid in cash, less required withholding, or for those
eligible, may be deferred at the Participant s election, subject to the terms
and conditions of any deferred compensation plan in which the Participant is
eligible to participate.  

c. 
Unless the Committee has taken action under subsection 3.c. hereof prior
to payment of an Award, each Participant selected by the Committee for a fiscal
year who remains actively employed by the Company or a Subsidiary thereof at
the end of the fiscal year shall be entitled to receive a payment of an Award
earned pursuant to the terms of the Plan with respect to such year.  

d. 
If a Participant s employment is terminated prior to completion of a
fiscal year for any reason other than as described in subsection 5.e. below,
the Participant will forfeit any Award otherwise payable for such fiscal year.  

e.  If a
Participant dies, retires or is disabled during the fiscal year, and the
Committee has not taken action under Section 3.c. hereof, the Participant s
Award will be prorated based on the number of 
Participant s half months the Participant was eligible to participate
during the fiscal year as an elected officer of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries.  If a Participant dies
before receipt of an Award, the Award will be paid to the Participant s estate.  

f. 
Prorated Awards will be paid at the same time as regular Awards.  

6.              Miscellaneous.   

a. 
All amounts payable hereunder shall be payable only to the Participant
or his or her beneficiaries.  The rights
and interests of a Participant under the Plan may not be assigned, encumbered,
or transferred, voluntarily or involuntarily, other than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution.  

3  

b. 
No individual shall have any claim or right to be a Participant in the
Plan at any time, and any individual s participation in the Plan may be
terminated at any time with or without notice, cause or regard to past
practices.  

c. 
Neither the Plan nor any action hereunder shall confer on any person any
right to remain in the employ of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or
shall affect an employee s compensation not arising under the Plan.  Neither the adoption of the Plan nor its
operation shall in any way affect the right and power of the Company or any
Subsidiary to dismiss or discharge any employee at any time.  

d. 
The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to deduct from any
Award, prior to payment, the amount of any taxes required to be withheld by any
federal, state or local government with respect to such payments.  

e. 
The Committee may rely upon any information supplied to it by any
officer of the Company or any Subsidiary or by any independent accountant for
the Company and may rely upon the advice of counsel in connection with the
administration of the Plan and shall be fully protected in relying upon such
information or advice.  

f. 
All expenses and costs in connection with the administration of the Plan
shall be borne by the Company.  

g. 
The Plan and any agreements entered into thereunder shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois.  

7.              Amendment or Termination
of the Plan.   

The Board may suspend, terminate, modify
or amend the Plan.  

8.              Effective Date.   

The Plan was adopted by the Board on
March 8, 1994, and was approved by the Company s stockholders on May 19,
1994.  The Plan, as amended and restated,
was adopted by the Board on March 9, 1999. 
The Plan was amended and restated by the Board on March 9, 2004.  The Plan was further amended and restated by
the Board on November 13, 2007   to comply with Internal
Revenue Code  409A.  

4  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.5>
 4
 a2182971zex-10_5.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.5

Exhibit 10.5   

Annual Incentive Plans   

   Performance Goals and Target Awards
for 2008   

The registrant
maintains two shareholder-approved plans under which executive officers have
the opportunity to receive an annual cash award based on the achievement of performance
goals over a one-year period.  The Annual Covered Employee Incentive
Compensation Plan ( Covered Employee Plan ) governs awards to those executive
officers who are considered  covered employees  as defined in Section 162(m)(3) of
the Internal Revenue Code.  Annual incentive awards to all other executive
officers are governed by and made under the Annual Executive Incentive
Compensation Plan ( Executive Plan ).  The Compensation and Succession
Committee of the Board of Directors establishes performance goals for each
fiscal year and sets threshold, target and maximum award opportunities. 
The Committee has the authority to adjust the amount of awards, but has no
authority to increase the amount of an award otherwise payable under the
Covered Employee Plan.  Payments are made after the Committee has
certified in writing the degree of attainment of the performance goals.  

On February 26,
2008, the Committee approved performance measures and target awards under the
plans for 2008.  The same performance measures apply to both the Covered
Employee Plan and Executive Plan.  

Corporate
Functions   .  For the chairman, chief executive officer,
chief financial officer and other executive officers in corporate functions,
there are four primary performance measures, weighted as follows:  50% based on an adjusted operating income per
diluted share measure; 35% based on the first three Allstate Protection
measures described in the next paragraph; 10% based on the first four Allstate
Financial measures described below; and 5% based on the first three Investments
measures described below.  

Allstate
Protection.     For all but one of the Allstate
Protection executive officers, their award opportunity is based on four
performance measures, weighted as follows:  45% based on a matrix used by
management to emphasize a balanced approach to premium growth and profit; 15%
based on a measure of sales and related profitability of proprietary and
non-proprietary  financial products by
Allstate Exclusive Agencies; 20% based on a measure of customer loyalty; and
20% based on the corporate adjusted operating income per diluted share measure.  

For the Senior Vice President of Claims
in Allstate Protection, the award opportunity is based on four performance
measures, weighted as follows: 45% based on a matrix used by management to
emphasize a balanced approach to premium growth and profit; 15% based on an
adjusted claims expense ratio; 20% based on a customer requirement index; and
20% based on the corporate adjusted operating income per diluted share measure.  

Allstate
Financial.    For
the Allstate Financial executive officers, there are five performance measures,
weighted as follows:  15% based on Allstate Financial adjusted operating
income; 15% based on Allstate Financial adjusted net income; 20% based on a
measure of sales and related profitability of proprietary and non-proprietary
financial products by Allstate exclusive agencies; 30% based on a matrix used
by management that balances growth and profit; and 20% based on the corporate
adjusted operating income per diluted share measure.  

Investments.    
For the executive officer in the Investments business unit, there are
four primary performance measures, weighted as follows:  50% based on a
set of five relative returns measures of Allstate s investment portfolios; 15%
based on a measure of Allstate Financial yield on purchases of fixed income
securities relative to a benchmark; 15% based on adjusted net investment income
of certain subsidiaries; and 20% based on the corporate adjusted operating
income per diluted share measure.  

Threshold, target and
maximum levels of performance are established for each performance
measure.  If the maximum level of performance is achieved, the award would
be three times the executive officer s target award, with target awards
generally ranging from 50% to 120% of annual salary for the fiscal year.  

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 5
 a2182971zex-10_6.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.6

Exhibit 10.6   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   

LONG-TERM EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN   

As Amended and Restated Effective November 13,
2007   

1.              Purposes .  

The purposes of the Plan are to:  

a.  

attract and
  retain talented employees and to maximize the deductibility of compensation
  paid under the Plan to any Participant who is a Covered Employee as defined
  in Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code   

b.  

provide
  Participants with added incentives to promote various long-term performance
  goals, while taking into account the varying objectives and conditions of the
  different businesses engaged in by The Allstate Corporation and its
  Subsidiaries;  

c.  

link
  compensation to performance by rewarding three-year corporate performance;  

d.  

compensate
  participants at competitive levels when competitive performance is achieved,
  and at superior levels when performance exceeds competitors  and  

e.  

encourage
  teamwork among top executives.  

2.              Definitions .  

The following terms when used in the Plan
shall, for the purposes of the Plan, have the following meanings:  

a. 
 Award  means the cash amount payable to a Participant for a Performance
Cycle pursuant to the terms of the Plan.  

b. 
 Board  means the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation.  

c. 
 Business Unit  means any operating unit of The Allstate Corporation or
any of its Subsidiaries, including but not limited to, the property and
casualty business, the life business, the investments business, or the international
business.  

1  

d. 
 Committee  means two or more members of the Board who are  outside
directors  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations
thereunder.  

e.   Company 
means The Allstate Corporation.  

f. 
 Covered Employee  means a Participant who is a  Covered Employee  as
defined in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.  

g.   Fiscal Year  means the calendar year.  

h. 
 Participant  means an elected officer of the Company or of any
Subsidiary, selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan for a
Performance Cycle or for any shorter period within a Performance Cycle in which
the Participant is an elected officer of the Company selected by the Committee
to participate in the Plan.  

i. 
 Performance Cycle  means a period of three consecutive fiscal years.  

j. 
 Plan  means the Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.  

k. 
 Subsidiary  means any corporation of which the Company owns directly or
indirectly a majority of the outstanding shares of voting stock.  

3.              Administration of the Plan .  

a. 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  Members of the Committee shall be appointed
by the Board.  

b. 
The Committee shall have the authority to make all determinations it
deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the
selection of Participants, and, subject to the limitations set forth herein,
the determination of the timing and 
amount of Awards made to each Participant, and the establishment of
objective and measurable performance standards ( performance goals ) for
earning Awards.  

c. 
The Committee shall have the authority to exercise discretion in
determining the amounts of the Awards otherwise payable under the terms of the
Plan;  provided ,  however , that the Committee shall have no
authority to increase the amount of Awards otherwise payable to any Covered
Employee under the terms of the Plan.  

4.                                              Awards.   

a. 
Awards under the Plan shall consist of cash bonuses based upon the
degree of attainment of objective and measurable performance goals of the
Company and/or its Subsidiaries and/or Business Units thereof, where
applicable, over a Performance Cycle or such shorter period within a
Performance Cycle during which the Participant is an employee of the Company or
of any Subsidiary.  

2  

b. 
The Committee shall establish written performance goals within 90 days
after the beginning of a Performance Cycle (or, if the Covered Employee is not
an employee at the beginning of a Performance Cycle, within the first 25% of
the period within the Performance Cycle in which the Covered Employee is an
employee), and while the outcome of the performance goals is substantially
uncertain.  Such performance goals shall
be expressed in terms of objective and measurable financial and/or operating
criteria, and may involve comparisons with respect to historical results of the
Company and its Subsidiaries and operating groups or Business Units thereof, as
well as comparisons with respect to peer group performance.  Performance goals shall be expressed using
one or more of the following measures of performance:  net income, operating income, return on
equity, earnings per share, return on assets, values of assets, revenues,
market share, prices of Company stock, or strategic business criteria
consisting of one or more Company, Subsidiary or Business Unit objectives based
on meeting specified revenue goals, market penetration goals, business
expansion goals, cost targets, customer retention goals, customer satisfaction
goals, or goals relating to acquisitions or divestitures.  The calculation is specifically defined at
the time the goal is set.  Each
performance goal must state, in terms of an objective formula or standard, the
Award payable to each Participant if the performance goal is attained.  

c.  No award opportunity for any Participant for
any Performance Cycle shall exceed $6,000,000.  

5.                                              Payment of Awards   .  

a.             Awards under the Plan shall be paid
to Participants as soon as practicable after the completion of the Performance
Cycle, after the   completion of the audits for each year in the
Performance Cycle and after the Committee certifies that the performance goals
and any other material terms were in fact satisfied, but notwithstanding any
other provision in this Plan to the contrary, in no event before January 1 or
after March 15   of the
year following the completion of the Performance Cycle.  

b.             Awards will be paid in cash, less
required withholding, or for those eligible, may be deferred at the Participant s
election, subject to the terms and conditions of any deferred compensation plan
in which the Participant is eligible to participate.  

c.  
Unless the Committee has taken action under subsection 3.c. hereof prior
to payment of an Award, each Participant selected by the Committee who remains
actively employed by the Company or a Subsidiary thereof at the end of a
Performance Cycle shall be entitled to receive a payment of an Award earned
pursuant to the terms of the Plan with respect to such Performance Cycle.  

d. 
If a Participant s employment is terminated prior to completion of a
Performance Cycle for any reason other than as described in subsection 5.e.
below, the Participant will forfeit any Award otherwise payable for such
Performance Cycle.  

e. 
If a Participant dies, retires or is disabled during a Performance
Cycle, and the   

3  

Committee has not taken action under Section 3.c.
hereof, the Participant s Award shall be prorated based on the number of half
months the Participant was eligible to participate during the Performance Cycle
as an elected officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.  If a Participant dies before receipt of an
Award, the Award will be paid to the Participant s estate.  

f.  Prorated
Awards will be paid at the same time as regular Awards.  

6.              Miscellaneous .  

a. 
All amounts payable hereunder shall be payable only to the Participant
or his or her beneficiaries.  The rights
and interests of a Participant under the Plan may not be assigned, encumbered,
or transferred, voluntarily or involuntarily, other than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution.  

b. 
No individual shall have any claim or right to be a Participant in the
Plan at any time, and any individual s participation in the Plan may be
terminated at any time with or without notice, cause or regard to past
practices.  

c. 
Neither the Plan nor any action hereunder shall confer on any person any
right to remain in the employ of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or
shall affect an employee s compensation not arising under the Plan.  Neither the adoption of the Plan nor its
operation shall in any way affect the right and power of the Company or any
Subsidiary to dismiss or discharge any employee at any time.  

d. 
The Company and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to deduct from any
Award, prior to payment, the amount of any taxes required to be withheld by any
federal, state or local government with respect to such payments.  

e. 
The Committee may rely upon any information supplied to it by any
officer of the Company or any Subsidiary or by any independent accountant for
the Company and may rely upon the advice of counsel in connection with the
administration of the Plan and shall be fully protected in relying upon such
information or advice.  

f. 
All expenses and costs in connection with the administration of the Plan
shall be borne by the Company.  

g. 
The Plan and any agreements entered into thereunder shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois.  

7.              Amendment or Termination of the
Plan .  

The Board may suspend, terminate, modify
or amend the Plan;  provided ,  however , that any such action which
changes employees eligible to participate, the criteria set forth in subsection
4.b., or the maximum amount of an Award set forth in subsection 4.c., shall be
disclosed to and approved by the Company s stockholders.  Stockholder approval must be   

4  

given by a
majority of the votes cast by the holders of Company shares represented in
person or by proxy at the annual meeting next following the date of any such
change.  

8.              Effective Date .  

The Plan was adopted by the Board on
March 8, 1994, and was approved by the Company s stockholders on May 19,
1994.  The Plan, as amended and restated,
was adopted by the Board of Directors on March 9, 1999, and was submitted to
the Company s stockholders for   approval on May 18,
1999.  The Plan was amended and restated
by the Board on March 9, 2004, and the material terms of the performance goals
of the Plan, as amended, were submitted to the Company s stockholders for
approval on May 18, 2004.  The Plan was
further amended and restated by the Board on November 13, 2007 to comply with
Internal Revenue Code  409A.  

5  

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.10>
 6
 a2182971zex-10_10.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.10

Exhibit 10.10   

Long-Term Executive Incentive Plan   Performance Goals and
Target Awards for the 2008-2010 Cycle   

The registrant maintains a shareholder-approved
Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan to provide certain executives,
including the executive officers, the opportunity to receive a cash award based
on the achievement of performance objectives over a three-year cycle.  The
Compensation and Succession Committee of the Board of Directors establishes
performance measures for each cycle and sets threshold, target and maximum
award opportunities.  The amount of each executive s payout is dependent
on the achievement of the performance measures.  The Committee has the
authority to adjust the amount of awards payable under the Plan, but has no
authority to increase the amount of an award otherwise payable to a  covered
employee  as defined in Section 162(m)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code.  Payments are made by March 15 of the year following the end of
the respective cycle, after the Committee has certified in writing the degree
of attainment of the cycle s performance goals.  

On February 26, 2008 the
Committee approved performance measures and target award opportunities for the
2008-2010 three-year performance cycle. 
The award opportunities are based on three performance measures. 50% of
the award opportunity is based on a three-year average adjusted net income
return on equity measure, as compared to a peer group of companies representing
both the property/casualty and financial services industries.  No payment based on this return on equity
measure is made unless that return exceeds the average rate on three-year
Treasury Notes over the three-year cycle, plus 200 basis points.  25% of the award opportunity is based on a
measure of Allstate Protection s growth in policies in force ( PIF ) over the
three-year cycle, excluding property insurance, Motor Club, and the loan
protection business and includes Allstate Canada. The remaining 25% is based on
a measure of three year-average Allstate Financial net income return on
capital.  Threshold, target and maximum
levels of performance are established for each performance measure.  If
the maximum level of performance is achieved, the award would be three times
the executive officer s target award, with target awards generally ranging from
40% to 155% of salary.  

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.29>
 7
 a2182971zex-10_29.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.29

Exhibit 10.29   

[AMENDED AND RESTATED] 1  

CHANGE OF CONTROL EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

AMONG  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION,  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY  

AND  

[INSERT NAME OF EXECUTIVE]  

   (Tier One)  

(1) This text is
to be used in Agreements originally entered into prior to November 13, 2007,
and being amended and restated on or after this date.  

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

i  

ii  

THE
ALLSTATE CORPORATION  

  [AMENDED
AND RESTATED]2  CHANGE OF CONTROL
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

[THIS AGREEMENT
dated as of
              ,
20    (the   Agreement Date  ) is made by and among The
Allstate Corporation, a Delaware corporation (  Allstate  ), the Allstate
Insurance Company, an Illinois insurance corporation (  AIC  ), and                  
(  Executive  ).]3  

[The Allstate
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (  Allstate  ), Allstate Insurance
Company, an Illinois insurance company (  AIC  ), and                          
(  Executive  ) are parties to a Change of Control Employment Agreement
originally entered into on
                      (the  Agreement Date ).  To comply with the provisions of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code so as to avoid the imposition of excise taxes and
penalties on the Executive under Section 409A and to amend certain provisions
of the original Agreement, this Amended and Restated Agreement is entered into,
to be effective as of
                                           ]4  

RECITALS  

                  On February 12, 1999 Allstate
originally adopted Change of Control Employment Agreements, and on November 13,
2007 approved certain changes to the terms of such Agreements.  Allstate has determined that it is in the best
interests of Allstate and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have
the continued service of Executive. 
Allstate also believes it is imperative to reduce the distraction of
Executive that would result from the personal uncertainties caused by a pending
or threatened change of control of Allstate, to encourage Executive s full
attention and dedication to the Company, and to provide Executive with
compensation and benefits arrangements upon a change of control that will
satisfy the expectations of Executive and be competitive with those of
similarly situated corporations.  This
Agreement is intended to accomplish these objectives.  

  ARTICLE I.   
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS  

  As used in this Agreement, the terms specified below
shall have the following meanings:  

  1.1             Accrued
Annual Bonus   means the amount of any Annual Bonus earned and due to be
paid but not yet paid to Executive as of the Executive s Termination Date,
other than amounts that Executive has elected to defer.  

(2)                                      This text is to be used in Agreements
originally entered into prior to November 13, 2007, and being amended and
restated on or after this date.  

(3)           This
text is to be used in Agreements entered into on or after November 13, 2007.  

  (4)                                      This text is to be used in Agreements
originally entered into prior to November 13, 2007, and being amended and
restated on or after this date.  

1.2               Accrued Base Salary   means
the amount of Executive s Base Salary that is accrued but unpaid as of the
Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that Executive has elected to
defer.  

  1.3               Accrued LTIP Bonus   means
the amount of any LTIP Bonus earned and due to be paid but not yet paid to
Executive as of the Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that
Executive has elected to defer.  

  1.4               Accrued Obligations   means,
as of any date, the sum of Executive s Accrued Base Salary, Accrued Annual
Bonus, Accrued LTIP Bonus, any accrued but unpaid vacation pay, and any other
amounts and benefits that are then due to be paid or provided to Executive by
the Company (other than pursuant to Sections 2.4 or 4.1(b) or any defined
benefit or defined contribution plan of the Company, whether or not qualified
under Section 401(a) of the Code), but have not yet been paid or provided (as
applicable).  

  1.5               Agreement Date      see the introductory paragraph of this
Agreement.  

  1.6               Agreement Term   means the
period commencing on the Agreement Date and ending on the third anniversary of
the Agreement Date or, if later, such later date to which the Agreement Term is
extended pursuant to the following sentence. 
Commencing on the second anniversary of the Agreement Date, the
Agreement Term shall automatically be extended each day by one day to create a
new one-year term until, at any time after the second anniversary of the
Agreement Date, the Company delivers written notice (an   Expiration Notice  )
to Executive that the Agreement shall expire on a date specified in the
Expiration Notice (the   Expiration Date  ) that is not less than 12
months after the date the Expiration Notice is delivered to Executive; provided,
however, that if an Effective Date or an Imminent Control Change Date occurs
before the Expiration Date specified in the Expiration Notice, then such
Expiration Notice shall be void and of no further effect.    Imminent Control Change Date   means
(i) any date on which a proposal or offer for a Change of Control is presented
to Allstate s stockholders generally or to any of Allstate s directors or
executive officers or is publicly announced (whether by advertisement, press
release, press interview, public statement, SEC filing or otherwise) or
(ii) any subsequent date as of which such proposal or offer for a Change
of Control remains effective and has not expired or been revoked.  

  1.7               AIC     see the introductory
paragraph of this Agreement.  

  1.8               Allstate     see the introductory
paragraph of this Agreement.  

  1.9                Annual Bonus     see
Section 2.2(b).  

  1.10             Annual Performance Period     see
Section 2.2(b).  

  1.11              Article   means an article of
this Agreement.  

  1.12             Base Salary     see Section
2.2(a).  

  1.13              Beneficiary     see Section
10.3.  

2  

1.14             Board   means the Board of
Directors of Allstate or, from and after the Effective Date of a Change of
Control that gives rise to a Surviving Corporation, the Board of Directors of
such Surviving Corporation.  

  1.15             Bonus Plan     see Section
2.2(b).  

  1.16             Cause     see Section 3.3(b).  

  1.17             CEO   means Chief Executive
Officer.  

  1.18             Change of Control   means,
except as otherwise provided at the end of this Section, the occurrence of any
one or more of the following:  

                  (a)           ( Voting Power)   any Person or group (as such term
is defined in   Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)  ), other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan
(or any related trust) of Allstate or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires or has
acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent
acquisition by such Person of Persons, ownership of stock of Allstate
possessing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Securities of
Allstate (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly Owned Company (as
defined below), a   More than 30% Owner  ), except that no Change of
Control shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by
a corporation with respect to which both more than 70% of the common stock of
such corporation and Voting Securities representing more than 70% of the
combined voting power of the Voting Securities of such corporation are then
owned, directly or indirectly, by the Persons who were the direct or indirect
owners of the common stock and Voting Securities of Allstate immediately before
such acquisition in substantially the same propor tions as their ownership,
immediately before such acquisition, of the common stock and Voting Securities
of Allstate, as the case may be (a   Similarly Owned Company   or  

(b)  (Majority Ownership)  any Person or group (as such term is
defined in   Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)  ), other than a
Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of Allstate or
any of its Subsidiaries, acquires ownership of more than 50% of the voting
power of all Voting Securities of Allstate or of the total fair market value of
the stock of Allstate (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly Owned
Company, a   Majority Owner  ), except that no Change of Control shall be
deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a  Similarly
Owned Company ; or  

(c  )   (Board
Composition)  a majority of the members of the Board is replaced
during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not
endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board before the date of the
appointment or election (    Board
Turnover   or   

(d)   (Reorganization)  the
consummation of a merger, reorganiza tion, consolidation  , or similar
transaction, or of a plan or agree ment for the sale or other disposition of
all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Allstate, or a plan of
liquidation of Allstate (any of the foregoing, a   Reorgani zation Transac tion  )
that, does not qualify as an Exempt Reorganization Transaction.  

3  

Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, no transaction or event shall constitute a Change of Control for
purposes of this Agreement unless the transaction or event constituting the
Change of Control also constitutes a change in the ownership of a corporation
(as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)), a change in
effective control of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)) or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of
the assets of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii)).  

1.19              Code   means the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  Any
reference to any section of the Code shall also refer to any successor
provision.  

  1.20             Company   means Allstate, AIC
and each of Allstate s other Subsidiaries.  

  1.21             Company Certificate     see
Section 5.1(b).  

  1.22             Company Counsel Opinion     see
Section 5.5.  

  1.23             Competitive Business   means
as of any date (including during the one-year period commencing on the
Termination Date) any corporation or other Person (and any branch, office or
operation thereof) that engages in, or proposes to engage in:  

  (a)           the underwriting, reinsurance,
marketing or sale of (i) any form of insurance of any kind that the Company as
of such date does, or proposes to, underwrite, reinsure, market or sell (any
such form of insurance, an   Allstate Insurance Product  ) or (ii) any
other form of insurance that is marketed or sold in competition with any
Allstate Insurance Product, or  

  (b)           any other business that as of such
date is a direct and material competitor of the Company;  

  and that
is located (i) anywhere in the United States, or (ii) anywhere
outside of the United States where the Company is then engaged in, or proposes
to engage in, any of such activities.  

  1.24             Consummation Date   means the
date on which a Reorganization Transaction is consummated.  

  1.25             Disability     see Section
3.1(b).  

  1.26             Disability Effective Date     see
Section 3.1.  

  1.27             Effective Date   means the
date on which a Change of Control first occurs during the Agreement Term.  

  1.28             Exchange Act   means the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

  1.29             Excise Taxes     see Section
5.1.  

4  

1.30             Executive Counsel Opinion     see
Section 5.5.  

  1.31             Executive s Gross-Up
Determination     see Section 5.2(a).  

  1.32             Exempt Reorganization Transaction  
means a Reorganization Transaction that  fails
to result in (a) any Person or group becoming a More than 30% Owner or a
Majority Owner, (b) Board Turnover, or (c) a sale or disposition of the assets
of Allstate that have a total Gross Fair Market Value (as defined below) equal
to at least forty percent (40%) of the total Gross Fair Market Value of all of
the assets of Allstate immediately before such transaction.    Gross Fair Market Value   means the
value of the assets of Allstate, or the value of the assets being disposed of,
determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.   

  1.33             Good Reason     see Section
3.4(b).  

  1.34             Gross-up Multiple     see
Section 5.4.  

  1.35             Gross-up Payment     see
Section 5.1.  

  1.36             including   means including
without limitation.  

  1.37             IRS   means the Internal
Revenue Service.  

  1.38             IRS Claim     see Section 5.6.  

  1.39             Legal and Other Expenses     see
Section 6.1(a).  

  1.40             LTIP   means the Allstate
Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (or any successor plan).  

  1.41             LTIP Award   means an
incentive compensation opportunity granted under the LTIP.  

  1.42             LTIP Bonus   means the amount
paid or earned in respect of an LTIP Award.  

  1.43             LTIP Performance Period  
means any performance period designated in accordance with any LTIP approved by
the Board or any committee of the Board.  

  1.44             LTIP Target Award   means, in
respect of any LTIP Award, the amount that Executive would have been entitled
to receive for the LTIP Performance Period corresponding to such LTIP Award if
the performance goals established pursuant to such LTIP Award were achieved at
the 100% level as of the end of the LTIP Performance Period.  

  1.45             Lump Sum Value   of an annuity
payable pursuant to a defined benefit plan means, as of a specified date, the
present value of such annuity, as determined, as of such date, under generally
accepted actuarial principles using (i) the applicable interest rate, mortality
tables and other methods and assumptions under Code Section 417(e) as published
by the IRS and used for determining the value of an immediate annuity on the
Termination Date or (ii) if such interest rate and mortality assumptions are no
longer published by the IRS, the interest rate   

5  

and mortality assumptions determined in a manner as
similar as practicable to the manner by which the Code Section 417(e) interest
rate and mortality assumptions were determined immediately prior to the IRS s
cessation of publication of such assumptions; provided, however, that if such
defined benefit plan provides for a lump sum distribution and such lump-sum
distribution either (x) is the only payment method available under such plan or
(y) provides for a greater amount than the Lump Sum Value of the Maximum
Annuity available under such plan, then  Lump Sum Value  shall mean such lump
sum amount.  

  1.46             Maximum Annuity   means, in
respect of a defined benefit plan (whether or not qualified under Section
401(a) of the Code), an annuity computed in whatever manner permitted under such
plan (including frequency of annuity payments, attained age (whether determined
as of a current date or as of a future date upon the commencement of annuity
payments), and nature of surviving spouse benefits, if any) that yields the
greatest Lump Sum Value.  

  1.47             More than 30 % Owner     see
paragraph (a) of the definition of  Change of Control.   

  1.48             Notice of Consideration     see
Section 3.3(c).  

  1.49             Non-Qualified Plan     see
Section 2.4.  

  1.50             Notice of Termination   means
a written notice given in accordance with Section 10.8 that sets forth
(i) the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied on by the
party giving such notice, (ii) in reasonable detail the specific facts and
circumstances claimed to provide a basis for such Termination of Employment,
and (iii) if the Termination Date is other than the date of receipt of
such Notice of Termination, the Termination Date.  

  1.51             Person   means any individual,
sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company,
trust, unincorporated organization, association, corporation, institution,
public benefit corporation, entity or government instrumentality, division,
agency, body or department.  

  1.52             Plans   means plans, programs,
or Policies of the Company.  

  1.53             Policies   means policies,
practices or procedures of the Company.  

  1.54             Post-Change Period   means the
period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the second anniversary of
the Effective Date.  

  1.55              Potential Parachute Payments  
  see Section 5.1.  

  1.56             Pro-rata Annual Bonus   means,
in respect of the Company s fiscal year during which the Termination Date
occurs, an amount equal to the product of Executive s Target Annual Bonus
(determined as of the Termination Date) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator
of which equals the number of days from and including the first day of such
fiscal year through and including the Termination Date, and the denominator of
which equals 365.  

6  

1.57             Pro-rata LTIP Bonus   means an
amount equal to the sum of each of the following amounts:  for each LTIP Performance Period that is in
effect as of a Termination Date, Executive s LTIP Target Award for such LTIP
Performance Period multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which equals the
number of days from and including the beginning of such LTIP Performance Period
through and including the Termination Date, and the denominator of which equals
the aggregate number of days in such LTIP Performance Period.  

  1.58             Refund Claim     see Section
5.6.  

  1.59             Reorganization Transaction    
see clause (d) of the definition of  Change of Control.   

  1.60              Restricted Shares   means
shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar awards.  

  1.61             SEC   means the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  

  1.62             Section   means, unless the
context otherwise requires, a section of this Agreement.  

  1.63             SERP   means a supplemental
executive retirement Plan that is a Non-Qualified Plan.  

  1.64              Stock Options   means stock
options, stock appreciation rights (including limited stock appreciation
rights), or similar awards.  

  1.65             Subsidiary   means any
corporation, business trust, limited liability company or partnership with
respect to which Allstate owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities
representing more than 50% of the aggregate voting power of the
then-outstanding Voting Securities.  

  1.66             Surviving Corporation   means
the corporation resulting from a Reorganization Transaction or, if securities
representing at least 50% of the aggregate Voting Power of such resulting
corporation are directly or indirectly owned by another corporation, such other
corporation.  

  1.67             Target Annual Bonus   as of
any date means the amount equal to the product of Base Salary determined as of
such date multiplied by the percentage of such Base Salary to which Executive
would have been entitled immediately prior to such date under any Bonus Plan
for the Annual Performance Period for which the Annual Bonus is awarded if the
performance goals established pursuant to such Bonus Plan were achieved at the
100% level as of the end of the Annual Performance Period.  

  1.68             Taxes   means federal, state,
local and other income, employment and other taxes.  

  1.69             Termination Date   means the
date of the receipt of the Notice of Termination by Executive (if such Notice
is given by the Company) or by the Company (if such Notice is   

7  

given by Executive), or any later date, not more than
15 days after the giving of such Notice, specified in such Notice; provided,
however, that:  

  (a)             if Executive s employment is
terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Termination Date shall be the
date of Executive s death or the Disability Effective Date (as defined in
Section 3.1(a)), as applicable; and  

  (b)             if no Notice of Termination is
given, the Termination Date shall be the last date on which Executive is
employed by the Company.  

  1.70           .   Termination of Employment  
means any termination of Executive s employment with the Company, whether such
occurs by reason of (a) the initiative of any Company or Executive or
(b) the death of Executive; provided that such termination is also a  separation
from service  within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h).  

  1.71              Voting Securities   of a
corporation means securities of such corporation that are entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors of such corporation.  

ARTICLE II.   
POST-CHANGE PERIOD  

  2.1              Position and Duties .  

  (a)           During the Post-Change Period, (x)
Executive s position (including offices, titles, reporting requirements and
responsibilities), authority and duties shall be at least commensurate in all
material respects with the most significant of those held, exercised and
assigned at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective
Date and (y) Executive s services shall be performed at the location where
Executive was employed immediately before the Effective Date or any other
location which does not constitute a material geographic change from the former
location.  

  (b)           During the Post-Change Period (except
during any periods of vacation to which Executive is entitled and any
authorized sick, disability or other leave of absence), Executive shall devote
Executive s full attention and time to the business and affairs of the Company
and, to the extent necessary to discharge the duties assigned to Executive in
accordance with this Agreement, to use Executive s best efforts to perform such
duties.  During the Post-Change Period,
Executive may (i) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or
committees, (ii) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach
at educational institutions and (iii) manage personal investments, so long
as such activities are consistent with the Policies of the Company at the
Effective Date and do not significantly interfere with the performance of
Executive s duties under this Agreement. 
To the extent that any such activities have been conducted by Executive
immediately prior to the Effective Date and were consistent with the Policies
of the Company at the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities
(or activities similar in nature and scope) after the Effective Date shall not
be deemed to interfere with the performance of Executive s duties under this
Agreement.  

8  

2.2              Compensation .  

  (a)            Base Salary .  During the Post-Change Period, the Company
shall pay or cause to be paid to Executive an annual base salary in cash, which
shall be paid in a manner consistent with the Company s payroll practices in
effect immediately before the Effective Date, at an annual rate not less than
12 times the highest monthly base salary paid or payable to Executive by the
Company in respect of the 12-month period immediately before the
Effective Date (such annual rate salary, the   Base Salary  ).  During the Post-Change Period, the Base
Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time
and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in
base salary awarded to other peer executives of the Company.  Any increase in Base Salary shall not limit
or reduce any other obligation of the Company to Executive under this
Agreement.  After any such increase, the
Base Salary shall not be reduced and  Base Salary  shall thereafter refer to
the increased amount.  

  (b)            Annual Bonus .  The Company shall also pay or cause to be
paid to Executive a bonus (the   Annual Bonus  ), which shall be not less
than the Target Annual Bonus determined as of the Effective Date, for each
Annual Performance Period that ends during the Post-Change Period.    Annual Performance Period   means each
period designated in accordance with any annual bonus arrangement or Plan (a   Bonus
Plan  ) that is based on performance and approved by the Board or any
committee of the Board, or in the absence of any Bonus Plan or any such
designated period of time, each calendar year.  

  (c)            LTIP Bonus .  The Company shall also:  

  (i)              pay or cause to be paid to
Executive an LTIP Bonus equal to the LTIP Target Award for each LTIP Award for
which an LTIP Performance Period is in effect as of the Effective Date; and  

  (ii)             throughout the Post-Change Period,
grant LTIP Awards to Executive as follows:  

  (1)             LTIP Awards shall be granted no
less frequently than is contemplated by the terms of the LTIP and the Company s
practices thereunder, as such terms and practices are in effect immediately
prior to the Effective Date;  

  (2)             each such LTIP Award shall provide
for the payment of a percentage of Executive s Base Salary in effect at the
beginning of the Performance Period applicable to such LTIP Award that is no
less than the average of the Target LTIP Percentages (as defined below) for all
of Executive s LTIP Awards outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Date;
and  

  (3)             the target performance goals
established for each such LTIP Award shall be substantially comparable to the
target performance goals under Executive s LTIP Awards outstanding on the
Effective Date;  

9  

Target
LTIP Percentage   means, in respect of any LTIP Award, the percentage of
Executive s Base Salary (determined as of the beginning of the applicable LTIP
Performance Period) that Executive would be entitled to receive after the
completion of the applicable LTIP Performance Period if the performance goals
applicable to such LTIP Award as of the date immediately prior to the Effective
Date were achieved at the 100% level.  

  (d)            Incentive, Savings and Retirement
Plans .  Executive shall also be
entitled to participate during the Post-Change Period in all cash and equity
incentive (including long-term incentives), savings and retirement Plans
applicable to other peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall such
Plans provide Executive with incentive (including long-term incentives), savings
and retirement benefits during the Post-Change Period that are materially less
valuable or have terms materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than the
most valuable and favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive
under such Plans as in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately
before the Effective Date.  

  (e)            Welfare Benefit Plans .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive and
Executive s family shall be eligible to participate in, and receive all
benefits under, welfare benefit Plans provided by the Company (including
medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, individual life,
group life, dependent life, accidental death and travel accident insurance
Plans) and applicable to other peer executives of the Company and their
families, but in no event shall such Plans provide benefits during the
Post-Change Period that are materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than
the most favorable of those provided to Executive under such Plans as in effect
at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective Date.  

  (f)             Fringe Benefits .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable
Plans applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall such
Plans provide fringe benefits that are materially less favorable, in the
aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company to
Executive under such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately
before the Effective Date.  

  (g)            Expenses .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to prompt reimbursement of all reasonable employment-related
expenses incurred by Executive upon the Company s receipt of accountings in
accordance with the most favorable Policies applicable to peer executives of
the Company, but in no event shall such Policies be materially less favorable,
in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company for
Executive under such Policies in effect at any time during the 90-day period
immediately before the Effective Date.  

  (h)            Office and Support Staff .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and
other appointments, and to secretarial and other assistance in accordance with
the most favorable Policies applicable to peer executives of the Company, but
in no event shall such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate,
than the most favorable of those provided by   

10  

the Company for Executive
under such Policies in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately
before the Effective Date.  

  (i)             Vacation .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable
Policies applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall
such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most
favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under such Policies in
effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective
Date.  

  2.3              Stock Incentive Awards .  

  (a)             On the Effective Date of a Change of Control, (i) all of
Executive s unvested Stock Options then outstanding (whether granted before or
after the Agreement Date) shall immediately become fully vested and
exercisable, and (ii) all of Executive s Restricted Shares then outstanding
shall immediately become fully vested and nonforfeitable.  

(b)             [This Section 2.3 amends all award agreements dated as
of any date before the Agreement Date. 
Accordingly, all provisions of such award agreements relating to a
change of control of the Company, including all grants of limited stock
appreciation rights, are hereby cancelled (if not previously cancelled),
effective as of the Agreement Date.]5  

2.4              Unfunded Deferred Compensation .  On the Effective Date of a Change of Control,
Executive shall become fully vested in all benefits previously accrued under
any deferred compensation Plan (including a SERP) that is not qualified under
Section 401(a) of the Code (a   Non-Qualified Plan  ).  Within five business days after the Effective
Date of a Change of Control, the Company shall pay to Executive a lump-sum cash
amount equal to:  

  (a)           the sum of the Lump-Sum Values of all
Maximum Annuities that are payable pursuant to all defined benefit
Non-Qualified Plans, plus  

  (b)           the sum of Executive s account
balances under all defined contribution Non-Qualified Plans.  

  To the extent that, if, for any reason, any portion of
such Non-Qualified Plan benefit is not so paid, the Company shall pay Executive
in lieu thereof a lump-sum cash payment equal to such unpaid portion within the
five-business day period specified in the preceding sentence.  

(5)                              This text is to be used in Agreements
originally entered into prior to November 13, 2007, and being amended and
restated on or after this date.  

11  

ARTICLE III.   
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

  3.1              Disability .  

  (a)           During the Post-Change Period, the
Company may terminate Executive s employment because of Executive s Disability
by giving Executive or his legal representative, as applicable,
(i) written notice in accordance with Section 10.8 of the Company s
intention to terminate Executive s employment pursuant to this Section and
(ii) a certification of Executive s Disability by a physician selected by
the Company or its insurers, subject to the consent of Executive or Executive s
legal representative, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.  Executive s employment shall
terminate effective on the 30th day (the   Disability Effective Date  )
after Executive s receipt of such notice unless, before the Disability
Effective Date, Executive shall have resumed the full-time performance of
Executive s duties.  

  (b)             Disability   means any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment of an Executive that:  

  (i)            has lasted for a continuous period of
not less than (x) six months or (y) such longer period, if any, that
is available to Executive under the Company s Policies relating to the
continuation of employee status after the onset of disability, as such Policies
are in effect when Disability is determined, but in no event shall such
Policies be materially less favorable to the Executive than the most favorable
of such Policies in effect for peer executives at any time during the 90-day
period immediately before the Effective Date,  

  (ii)           can be expected to be permanent or of
indefinite duration, and  

  (iii)          renders Executive unable to perform
the duties required under this Agreement.  

  3.2              Death .  Executive s employment shall terminate
automatically upon Executive s death during the Post-Change Period.  

  3.3              Cause .  

  (a)           During the Post-Change Period, the
Company may terminate Executive s employment for Cause solely in accordance
with all of the substantive and procedural provisions of this Section.  

  (b)             Cause   means any one or more
of the following:  

  (i)            Executive s conviction of a felony
or other crime involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude;  

12  

(ii)           Executive s willful or reckless
material misconduct in the performance of Executive s duties;  

  (iii)          Executive s habitual neglect of
duties; or  

  (iv)          Executive s willful or intentional
breach of this Agreement;  

  provided, however,
that for purposes of clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv), Cause shall not include any
one or more of the following:  

  (1)           bad judgment or negligence;  

  (2)           any act or omission believed by
Executive in good faith to have been in or not opposed to the interest of the
Company (without intent of Executive to gain, directly or indirectly, a profit
to which Executive was not legally entitled);  

  (3)           any act or omission with respect to
which a determination could properly have been made by the Board that Executive
had satisfied the applicable standard of conduct for indemnification or
reimbursement under Allstate s by-laws, any applicable indemnification
agreement, or applicable law, in each case as in effect at the time of such act
or omission; or  

  (4)           any act or omission with respect to
which Executive receives a Notice of Consideration (as defined below) more than
six months after the earliest date on which any member of the Board, not a
party to the act or omission, knew or should have known of such act or
omission; and  

  further provided,
that if a breach of this Agreement involved an act or omission based on
Executive s good faith and reasonable belief that Executive s act or omission
was in the best interests of the Company or was required by applicable law or
administrative regulation, such breach shall not constitute Cause unless the
Company gives Executive written notice of such breach that specifically refers
to this Section and, within 30 days after such notice is given, Executive fails
to cure such breach to the fullest extent that it is curable.  

  (c)           The Company shall strictly observe
each of the following procedures in connection with any Termination of
Employment for Cause:  

  (i)            A meeting of the Board shall be
called for the stated purpose of determining whether Executive s acts or
omissions satisfy the requirements of Section 3.3(b) and, if so, whether
to terminate Executive s employment for Cause.  

  (ii)           Not less than 30 days prior to the
date of such meeting, the Company shall provide Executive and each member of
the Board written notice (a   Notice of Consideration  ) of (x) a detailed
description of the acts or omissions  

13  

alleged to constitute
Cause, (y) the date, time and location of such meeting of the Board, and
(z) Executive s rights under clause (iii) below.  

  (iii)          Executive shall have the opportunity
to appear before the Board in person and, at Executive s option, with legal
counsel, and/or to present to the Board a written response to the Notice of
Consideration.  

  (iv)          Executive s employment may be
terminated for Cause only if (x) the acts or omissions specified in the
Notice of Consideration did in fact occur and do constitute Cause as defined in
this Section, (y) the Board makes a specific determination to such effect and
to the effect that Executive s employment should be terminated for Cause and
(z) the Company thereafter provides Executive with a Notice of Termination
that specifies in specific detail the basis of such Termination of Employment
for Cause and which Notice shall be consistent with the reasons set forth in
the Notice of Consideration.  The Board s
determination specified in clause (y) of the preceding sentence shall require
the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the members of the Board.  

  (v)           In the event that the existence of
Cause shall become an issue in any action or proceeding between the Company and
Executive, the Company shall, notwithstanding the determination referenced in
clause (iv) of this Section 3.3(c), have the burden of establishing that the
actions or omissions specified in the Notice of Consideration did in fact occur
and do constitute Cause and that the Company has satisfied the procedural
requirements of this Section 3.3(c).  The
satisfaction of the Company s burden shall require clear and convincing
evidence.  

  3.4              Good Reason .  

  (a)           During the Post-Change Period,
Executive may terminate his employment for Good Reason in accordance with the
substantive and procedural provisions of this Section.   A
Termination of Employment for Good Reason will be deemed to have occurred
during the Post-Change Period if Executive gives notice as provided in Section
3.4(d) within the Post-Change Period and the Termination of Employment is no
more than thirty (30) days after the expiration of the cure period described in
Section 3.4(e).   

  (b)             Good Reason   means the first
to occur of the following actions or omissions that, unless otherwise
specified, occurs during a Post-Change Period without the consent of Executive:  

  (i)            a material diminution in Executive s
base compensation;  

  (ii)           any material diminution in Executive s
authority, duties, or responsibilities as set forth in Paragraph 2.1(a);  

  (iii)          any material diminution in the
authority, duties, or responsibilities of the person to whom Executive reports,
including a requirement that Executive report to a corporate officer or
employee instead of reporting directly to the Board, if applicable;  

14  

(iv)          a material change in the geographic
location at which Executive must perform services; or  

  (v)            any other action or inaction that
constitutes a material breach of this Agreement by the Company;  

  (c)           Any reasonable determination by
Executive that any of the events specified in subsection (b) above has occurred
and constitutes Good Reason shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes,
unless the Company establishes by clear and convincing evidence that Executive
did not have any reasonable basis for such determination.  

  (d)           In the event of any Termination of
Employment by Executive for Good Reason, Executive shall notify the Company of
the events constituting such Good Reason by a Notice of Termination within
ninety days of the date Executive should have known of the events constituting
Good Reason.  

  (e)           Company shall have thirty days from
the date Executive provides Notice of Termination pursuant to Section 3.4(d) to
remedy the conditions constituting Good Reason during which period no
termination for Good Reason shall be deemed to have occurred.  

  (f)             If
the Company has not remedied the conditions constituting Good Reason within the
thirty-day period described in Section 3.4(e), then, in order for Executive s
termination to constitute a termination for Good Reason, the date of
Termination of Employment must occur no later than twelve (12) months after the
date of the first action or omission constituting Good Reason.   

ARTICLE IV.   
COMPANY S OBLIGATIONS UPON A TERMINATION
OF EMPLOYMENT  

  4.1              If by Executive for Good Reason
or by the Company Other Than for Cause or Disability .  If, during the Post-Change Period, the
Company terminates Executive s employment other than for Cause or Disability,
or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason, the Company s sole
obligations to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be
as follows:  

  (a)             The Company shall pay Executive, in
addition to all vested rights arising from Executive s employment as specified
in Article II, a lump-sum cash amount equal to the sum of the following:  

  (i)            all Accrued Obligations;  

  (ii)           Executive s Pro-rata Annual Bonus
reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any Annual Bonus paid to
Executive with respect to the Company s fiscal year in which the Termination
Date occurs;  

15  

(iii)          Executive s Pro-rata LTIP Bonus
reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any LTIP Bonus paid to Executive
with respect to the Company s fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs;  

  (iv)          all amounts previously deferred by, or
accrued to the benefit of, Executive under any defined contribution
Non-Qualified Plans, whether or not vested, together with any accrued earnings
thereon, to the extent that such amounts and earnings have not been previously
paid by the Company (whether pursuant to Section 2.4 or otherwise);  

  (v)           an amount equal to three (3.0) times
the sum of (y) Base Salary, and (z) the Target Annual Bonus, each
determined as of the Termination Date; provided, however, that any reduction in
Executive s Base Salary or Target Annual Bonus that would qualify as Good
Reason shall be disregarded for this purpose; and  

  (vi)          to the extent not paid pursuant to
clause (iv) of this Section 4.1(a), an amount equal to the sum of the value of
the unvested portion of Executive s accounts or accrued benefits under any
defined contribution Plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of the
Code) maintained by the Company as of the Termination Date and forfeited by
Executive by reason of the Termination of Employment.  

  Such lump-sum
amount shall be paid no more than five business days after the date of
Termination of Employment.  

  (b)           The Company shall pay Executive, in
lieu of all benefits under all defined benefit Non-Qualified Plans that have
accrued on or before the Termination Date but remain unpaid as of such date, a
lump-sum cash amount equal to the positive difference, if any, between:  

  (i)            the sum of the Lump-Sum Values of
each Maximum Annuity that would be payable to Executive under any defined
benefit Plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code) if
Executive had:  

  (1)           become fully vested in all such
benefits to the extent that such benefits are unvested as of the Termination
Date,  

  (2)           attained as of the Termination Date
an age that is three years greater than Executive s actual age,  

  (3)            accrued a number of years of service
(for purposes of determining the amount of such benefits, entitlement to early
retirement benefits, and all other purposes of such defined benefit plans) that
is three years greater than the number of years of service actually accrued by
Executive as of the Termination Date, and  

16  

(4)           received the lump-sum severance
benefits specified in Section 4.1(a) (excluding all LTIP Bonuses, and all
amounts in respect of Stock Options or Restricted Shares, if any) as covered
compensation in equal monthly installments during the three year period
following Termination of Employment,  

  minus  

  (ii)           the sum of (x) the Lump-Sum Values of
the Maximum Annuity benefits vested and payable (whether currently or at some
future date) to Executive under each defined benefit Plan that is qualified
under Section 401(a) of the Code and (y) the aggregate amounts simultaneously
or previously paid (whether pursuant to Section 2.4 or otherwise) to Executive
under the defined benefit Plans (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a)
of the Code) described in clause (i) of this Section 4.1(b).  

  Such lump-sum
amount shall be paid no more than five business days after the date of
Termination of Employment.  

  (c)           (i) On the date of Termination of
Employment, all of Executive s unvested Stock Options then outstanding (whether
granted before or after the Agreement Date) shall immediately become fully
vested and exercisable, and (ii) all of Executive s Restricted Shares then
outstanding shall immediately become fully vested and nonforfeitable.  This Section 4.1(c) amends all award
agreements dated as of any date before the Agreement Date.  

  (d)           All of Executive s then-outstanding
Stock Options that were granted after the Agreement Date, whether vested on or
before the date of Termination of Employment, shall thereafter remain
exercisable until the last to occur of (x) the first anniversary of the date of
Termination of Employment, and (y) any period provided in the applicable
stock option agreement or stock option plan as then in effect, but in no event
shall such period of exercisability continue after the earlier of (i) the date
on which such Stock Options would have expired if Executive had remained an
employee of the Company, or (ii) the tenth anniversary of the original date of
the Stock Option grant.  

  (e)           Within five business days after date
of Executive s Termination of Employment, the Company shall deliver to
Executive certificates for all Restricted Shares theretofore held by or on
behalf of the Company.  

  (f)            The Company shall pay on behalf of
Executive all reasonable fees and costs charged by the outplacement firm
selected by Executive to provide outplacement services to Executive that are
incurred no later than the end of the second year following the year in which
the Termination of Employment occurs.  

  (g)           During the period of time which Executive
would be entitled to continuation coverage under a Company-sponsored group
health plan under Section 4980 of the Code or such later date as any Plan may
specify, the Company shall continue to make available to Executive and
Executive s family welfare benefits (including medical,   

17  

prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance,
individual life, group life, accidental death and travel accident insurance
plans and programs) that are at least as favorable as the most favorable Plans
of the Company applicable to other peer executives and their families as of the
Termination Date, but which are in no event less favorable than the most
favorable Plans of the Company applicable to other peer executives and their
families during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective Date.  The cost of such welfare benefits, including  continuation coverage required by Section 4980 of
the Code ( COBRA ),  to Executive shall not exceed the cost of such
benefits to Executive immediately before the Termination Date or, if less, the
Effective Date.   Executive s rights under this Section shall be co-extensive with any
post-termination continuation coverage Executive may have pursuant to
applicable law, including COBRA,. 
Accordingly, in order to receive this coverage, Executive shall timely
elect continuation coverage under COBRA for Executive and Executive s covered
dependents.   Notwithstanding any
of the above, such welfare benefits shall be secondary to any similar welfare
benefits provided by Executive s subsequent employer as provided in the Plans.  

  4.2              If by the Company for Cause .  If the Company terminates Executive s
employment for Cause during the Post-Change Period, the Company s sole
obligation to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be to
pay Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations
determined as of the Termination Date.  

  4.3            If
by Executive Other Than for Good Reason . 
If Executive terminates employment during the Post-Change Period other
than for Good Reason, Disability or death, the Company s sole obligation to
Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be to pay Executive
a lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations determined as of the
Termination Date.  

  4.4            If
by the Company for Disability .  If
the Company terminates Executive s employment by reason of Executive s
Disability during the Post-Change Period, the Company s sole obligation to
Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be as follows:  

  (a)           to pay Executive a lump-sum cash
amount equal to all Accrued Obligations determined as of the Termination Date,
and  

  (b)           to provide Executive disability and
other benefits after the Termination Date that are not less favorable to
Executive than the most favorable of such benefits then available under Plans
of the Company to disabled peer executives of the Company.  

  Such disability and other benefits shall also be not
materially less favorable, in the aggregate, to Executive than the most
favorable of the disability and other benefits available to Executive under
such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding
the Effective Date.  

  4.5              If Upon Death .  If Executive s employment is terminated by reason
of Executive s death during the Post-Change Period, the Company s sole
obligations to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be
as follows:  

18  

(a)           to pay Executive s estate or Beneficiary
a lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations; and  

  (b)           to provide Executive s estate or
Beneficiary survivor and other benefits that are not less than the most
favorable survivor and other benefits then available under Plans of the Company
to the estates or the surviving families of peer executives of the Company.  

  Such survivor benefits shall also be no less
favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of the survivor benefits
available to Executive under such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day
period immediately preceding the Effective Date.  

  4.6            Amount Contested .  

  (a)           In the event of any dispute between
the Company and Executive as to the nature or extent of the Company s
obligation to make any payments or provide other benefits to Executive or
Executive s family pursuant to Sections 4.1 or 2.4, Executive shall have the
right, exercisable by written notice given to the Company within 90 days after
the Executive believes a payment or provision of benefits should have occurred,
to obtain, within 30 days after the Company s receipt of Executive s demand
therefor, a written certificate prepared by the Company and certified by
Allstate s independent auditors (a   Section 4.6 Certificate  ). The
Section 4.6 Certificate shall specify in detail either (i) the amount and
nature of each payment or other benefit that the Company believes is then due
and owing to Executive pursuant to Section 2.4 or 4.1, as applicable, or (ii)
if the Company asserts that the conditions to Executive s entitlement to
severance or other benefits pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, have
for any reason not been satisfied, the amount and nature of each payment or
other benefit that the Company believes would be due and owing to Executive
pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, if all of such applicable
conditions had been fully satisfied. 
Executive may not demand more than one Section 4.6 Certificate in
respect of his rights under Section 4.1 or more than one Section 4.6
Certificate in respect of his rights under Section 2.4.  

  (b)           Each Section 4.6 Certificate shall
include schedules that specify in detail how each amount or other benefit
specified therein was computed, together with appropriate references to
specific provisions of this Agreement or of any applicable Plans or Policies of
the Company, copies of which Plans or Policies shall be attached to such
schedules.  

  (c)           The Company shall be precluded from
asserting that any portion of the payments or other benefits due to Executive
pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, is less than the amount
specified in the Section 4.6 Certificate. The Section 4.6 Certificate shall in
no event be binding on Executive and Executive shall have the right to assert
that any or all of the payments or other benefits to be provided pursuant to
Section 4.1 or 2.4 are greater than or different from those specified in the
Section 4.6 Certificate.  

19  

(d)           If the Company shall for any reason
fail to deliver to Executive a Section 4.6 Certificate in compliance with
this Section within 30 days after the Company s receipt of Executive s written
demand therefor, Executive s determination of the amount and nature of payments
or other benefits due to Executive (i) pursuant to Section 4.1 and set forth in
an Executive s Severance Determination (as defined below) or (ii) pursuant to
Section 2.4 and set forth in an Executive s Deferred Compensation Determination
(as defined below) shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of this
Agreement unless the Company shall establish, by clear and convincing evidence,
that Executive s Severance Determination or Executive s Deferred Compensation
Determination, as applicable, is incorrect and that a different amount (which
may be zero or a positive amount) or nature of payments or other benefits is
correct.    Executive s Severance
Determination   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive
compensation counsel to the effect that the amount and nature of severance and
other benefits due to Executive pursuant to Section 4.1 is the amount and
nature that a court of competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not
subject to further appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in
accordance with this Agreement and applicable law.    Executive s Deferred Compensation
Determination   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive
compensation counsel to the effect that the amount of payments due to Executive
pursuant to Section 2.4 is the amount that a court of competent jurisdiction,
based on a final judgment not subject to further appeal, is most likely to
decide to have been calculated in accordance with this Agreement and applicable
law.  

ARTICLE V.   
CERTAIN ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS BY THE
COMPANY  

  5.1            Gross-up
for Certain Taxes .  

  (a)           If it is determined by Allstate s
independent auditors that any monetary or other benefit received or deemed
received by Executive from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to this
Agreement or otherwise, whether or not in connection with a Change of Control
(such monetary or other benefits collectively, the   Potential Parachute
Payments  ), is or will become subject to any excise tax under
Section 4999 of the Code or any similar tax under any United States
federal, state, local or other law other than Section 409A of the Code (such
excise tax and all such similar taxes collectively,   Excise Taxes  ),
then the Company shall, subject to Sections 5.6 and 5.7, within five business
days after such determination, pay Executive an amount (the   Gross-Up
Payment  ) equal to the product of:  

  (i)        the amount of such Excise Taxes  

  multiplied by  

  (ii)       the Gross-Up Multiple (as defined
in Section 5.4).  

20  

The Gross-Up
Payment is intended to compensate Executive for all Excise Taxes payable by
Executive with respect to Potential Parachute Payments and all Taxes or Excise
Taxes payable by Executive with respect to the Gross-Up Payment.  The Company shall not compensate Executive
for any taxes, penalties or interest related to Section 409A of the Code
payable by Executive.  

  (b)           The determination of Allstate s
independent auditors described in Section 5.1(a), including the detailed
calculations of the amounts of the Potential Parachute Payments, Excise Taxes
and Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions relating thereto, shall be set forth
in a written certificate of such auditors (the   Company Certificate  )
delivered to Executive.  Executive or the
Company may at any time request the preparation and delivery to Executive of a
Company Certificate.  The Company shall
cause the Company Certificate to be delivered to Executive as soon as
reasonably possible after such request.  

  5.2              Determination by Executive .  

  (a)           If (i) the Company shall fail to
deliver a Company Certificate to Executive within 30 days after its receipt of
his written request therefor, or (ii) within 90 days after Executive s receipt
of a Company Certificate, Executive provides notice to Company that Executive
disputes either (x) the amount of the Gross-Up Payment set forth therein or (y)
the determination set forth therein to the effect that no Gross-Up Payment is
due by reason of Section 5.7 or otherwise, and Executive takes further measures
within 180 days to enforce the Gross-Up Payment, then Executive may elect to
require the Company to pay a Gross-Up Payment in the amount determined by
Executive as set forth in an Executive Counsel Opinion (as defined in Section
5.5).  Any such demand by Executive shall
be made by delivery to the Company of a written notice that specifies the
Gross-Up Payment determined by Executive (together with the detailed
calculations of the amounts of Potential Parachute Payments, Excise Taxes and
Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions relating thereto) and an Executive Counsel
Opinion regarding such Gross-Up Payment (such written notice and opinion
collectively, the   Executive s Gross-Up Determination  ).  Within 30 days after delivery of an Executive s
Gross-Up Determination to the Company, the Company shall either (i) pay
Executive the Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Executive s Gross-Up
Determination (less the portion thereof, if any, previously paid to Executive
by the Company) or (ii) deliver to Executive a Company Certificate and a
Company Counsel Opinion (as defined in Section 5.5), and pay Executive the
Gross-Up Payment specified in such Company Certificate.  If for any reason the Company fails to comply
with the preceding sentence, the Gross-Up Payment specified in the Executive s
Gross-Up Determination shall be controlling for all purposes.  

  (b)           If Executive does not request a
Company Certificate, and the Company does not deliver a Company Certificate to
Executive, then (i) the Company shall, for purposes of Section 5.7, be deemed
to have determined that no Gross-Up Payment is due and (ii) Executive shall not
pay any Excise Taxes in respect of Potential Parachute Payments except in
accordance with Sections 5.6(a) or (d).  

21  

5.3                Additional Gross-up Amounts .  If for any reason (whether pursuant to
subsequently enacted provisions of the Code other than Section 409A of the
Code, final regulations or published rulings of the IRS, a final judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction, a determination of the Company s independent
auditors set forth in a Company Certificate or, subject to the last two
sentences of Section 5.2(a), an Executive s Gross-Up Determination) it is
later determined that the amount of Excise Taxes payable by Executive is
greater than the amount determined by the Company or Executive pursuant to
Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable, then the Company shall, subject to
Sections 5.6 and 5.7, pay Executive within 30 days after the determination an
amount (which shall also be deemed a Gross-Up Payment) equal to the product of:  

  (a)           the sum of (i) such additional
Excise Taxes and (ii) any interest, penalties, expenses or other costs
incurred by Executive as a result of having taken a position in accordance with
a determination made pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable,  

  multiplied by  

  (b)           the Gross-Up Multiple.  

  5.4              Gross-up Multiple .  The   Gross-Up Multiple   shall equal a
fraction, the numerator of which is one (1.0), and the denominator of which is
one (1.0) minus the lesser of (i) the sum, expressed as a decimal fraction, of
the effective after-tax marginal rates of all Taxes and any Excise Taxes
applicable to the Gross-Up Payment or (ii) 0.80, it being intended that the
Gross-Up Multiple shall in no event exceed five (5.0).  (If different rates of tax are applicable to
various portions of a Gross-Up Payment, the weighted average of such rates
shall be used.)  For purposes of this
Section, Executive shall be deemed to be subject to the highest effective
after-tax marginal rate of Taxes.  

  5.5              Opinion of Counsel .    Executive Counsel Opinion   means an
opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation counsel to the effect
(i) that the amount of the Gross-Up Payment determined by Executive pursuant to
Section 5.2 is the amount that a court of competent jurisdiction, based on a
final judgment not subject to further appeal, is most likely to decide to have
been calculated in accordance with this Article and applicable law and (ii) if
the Company has previously delivered a Company Certificate to Executive, that
there is no reasonable basis or no substantial authority for the calculation of
the Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Company Certificate.   Company Counsel
Opinion   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation
counsel to the effect that (i) the amount of the Gross-Up Payment set forth in
the Company Certificate is the amount that a court of competent jurisdiction,
based on a final judgment not subject to further appeal, is most likely to
decide to have been calculated in accordance with this Article and applicable
law and (ii) for purposes of Section 6662 of the Code, Executive has
substantial authority to report on his federal income tax return the amount of
Excise Taxes set forth in the Company Certificate.  

22  

5.6              Amount Increased or Contested .  

  (a)           Executive shall notify the Company in
writing (an   Executive s Notice  ) of any claim by the IRS or other
taxing authority (an   IRS Claim  ) that, if successful, would require the
payment by Executive of Excise Taxes in respect of Potential Parachute Payments
in an amount in excess of the amount of such Excise Taxes determined in
accordance with Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable.  Executive s Notice shall include the nature
and amount of such IRS Claim, the date on which such IRS Claim is due to be
paid (the   IRS Claim Deadline ), and a copy of all notices and other
documents or correspondence received by Executive in respect of such IRS
Claim.  Executive shall give the
Executive s Notice as soon as practicable, but no later than the earlier of (i)
10 business days after Executive first obtains actual knowledge of such IRS
Claim or (ii) five business days before the IRS Claim Deadline; provided,
however, that any failure to give such Executive s Notice shall affect the
Company s obligations under this Article only to the extent that the Company is
actually prejudiced by such failure.  If
at least one business day before the IRS Claim Deadline the Company shall:  

  (i)            deliver to Executive a Company
Certificate to the effect that the IRS Claim has been reviewed by the Company s
independent auditors and, notwithstanding the IRS Claim, the amount of Excise
Taxes, interest or penalties payable by Executive is less than the amount
specified in the IRS Claim,  

  (ii)           pay to Executive an amount (which
shall also be deemed a Gross-Up Payment) equal to the positive difference
between the product of (x) the amount of Excise Taxes, interest and penalties
specified in the Company Certificate, if any, multiplied by (y) the Gross-Up
Multiple, less the portion of such product, if any, previously paid to
Executive by the Company, and  

  (iii)          direct Executive pursuant to Section
5.6(d) to contest the balance of the IRS Claim,  

  then
Executive shall pay only the amount, if any, of Excise Taxes, interest and
penalties specified in the Company Certificate. 
In no event shall Executive pay an IRS Claim earlier than 30 days after
having given an Executive s Notice to the Company (or, if sooner, the IRS Claim
Deadline).  

  (b)           At any time after the payment by
Executive of any amount of Excise Taxes or related interest or penalties in
respect of Potential Parachute Payments (whether or not such amount was based
on a Company Certificate, an Executive s Gross-Up Determination or an IRS
Claim), the Company may in its discretion require Executive to pursue a claim
for a refund (a   Refund Claim  ) of all or any portion of such Excise
Taxes, interest or penalties as the Company may specify by written notice to
Executive.  

  (c)           If the Company notifies Executive in
writing that the Company desires Executive to contest an IRS Claim or to pursue
a Refund Claim, Executive shall:  

23  

(i)            give the Company all information
that it reasonably requests in writing from time to time relating to such IRS
Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable,  

  (ii)           take such action in connection with
such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) as the Company reasonably
requests in writing from time to time, including accepting legal representation
with respect thereto by an attorney selected by the Company, subject to the
approval of Executive (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed),  

  (iii)          cooperate with the Company in good
faith to contest such IRS Claim or pursue such Refund Claim, as applicable,  

  (iv)          permit the Company to participate in
any proceedings relating to such IRS Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, and  

  (v)           contest such IRS Claim or prosecute
Refund Claim (as applicable) to a determination before any administrative
tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate
courts, as the Company may from time to time determine in its discretion.  

  The Company shall
control all proceedings in connection with such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as
applicable) and in its discretion may cause Executive to pursue or forego any
and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the
IRS or other taxing authority in respect of such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as
applicable); provided that (i) any extension of the statute of limitations
relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of Executive relating to the
IRS Claim is limited solely to such IRS Claim, (ii) the Company s control of
the IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) shall be limited to issues with
respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable, and (iii) Executive shall
be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by
the IRS or other taxing authority.  

  (d)           The Company may at any time in its
discretion direct Executive to (i) contest the IRS Claim in any lawful manner
or (ii) pay the amount specified in an IRS Claim and pursue a Refund Claim;
provided, however, that if the Company directs Executive to pay an IRS Claim
and pursue a Refund Claim, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment
to Executive on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify Executive, on
an after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise Taxes and related interest or
penalties imposed with respect to such advance.  

  (e)           The Company shall pay directly all
legal, accounting and other costs and expenses (including additional interest
and penalties) incurred by the Company or Executive in connection with any IRS
Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, and shall indemnify Executive, on an
after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise Taxes and related interest and
penalties imposed as a result of such payment of costs and expenses.  

24  

5.7              Limitations on Gross-Up Payments .  

  (a)           Notwithstanding any other provision
of this Article V, if the aggregate After-Tax Amount (as defined below) of the
Potential Parachute Payments and Gross-Up Payment that, but for this Section
5.7, would be payable to Executive, does not exceed 110% of the After-Tax Floor
Amount (as defined below), then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive
and the aggregate amount of Potential Parachute Payments payable to Executive
shall be reduced (but not below the Floor Amount) to the largest amount that
would both (i) not cause any Excise Taxes to be payable by Executive and (ii)
not cause any Potential Parachute Payments to become nondeductible by the
Company by reason of Section 280G of the Code (or any successor provision).  For purposes of the preceding sentence,
Executive shall be deemed to be subject to the highest effective after-tax
marginal rate of Taxes.  

  (b)           For purposes of this Agreement:  

  (i)              After-Tax Amount   means the
portion of a specified amount that would remain after payment of all Taxes and
Excise Taxes paid or payable by Executive in respect of such specified amount;
and  

  (ii)             Floor Amount   means the
greatest pre-tax amount of Potential Parachute Payments that could be paid to
Executive without causing Executive to become liable for any Excise Taxes in
connection therewith; and  

  (iii)            After-Tax Floor Amount   means
the After-Tax Amount of the Floor Amount.  

  5.8            Refunds .  If, after the receipt by Executive of any
payment or advance of Excise Taxes by the Company pursuant to this Article,
Executive receives any refund with respect to such Excise Taxes, Executive
shall (subject to the Company s complying with any applicable requirements of
Section 5.6) promptly pay the Company the amount of such refund (together with
any interest paid or credited thereon after Taxes applicable thereto).  If, after the receipt by Executive of an
amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5.6, a determination is made
that Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim
and the Company does not notify Executive in writing of its intent to contest
such determination within 30 days after the Company receives written
notice of such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not
be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the
extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.  Any contest of a denial of refund shall be
controlled by Section 5.6.  

ARTICLE VI.   
EXPENSES AND INTEREST  

  6.1              Legal and Other Expenses .  

  (a)           If Executive incurs legal fees
(including fees in connection with the delivery of an Executive Counsel
Opinion) or other expenses (including expert witness   

25  

and accounting fees) in an effort to determine,
secure, preserve, establish entitlement to, or obtain benefits under this
Agreement (collectively,   Legal and Other Expenses  ), the Company shall,
regardless of the outcome of such effort, pay or reimburse Executive for such
Legal and Other Expenses in accordance with Section 6.1(b).  

  (b)           All Legal and Other Expenses shall be
paid or reimbursed on a monthly basis within 10 days after Allstate s receipt
of Executive s written request accompanied by evidence that such Legal and Other
Expenses were incurred.  

  (c)           If Executive does not prevail (after
exhaustion of all available judicial remedies) in respect of a claim by
Executive or by the Company hereunder, and the Company establishes before a
court of competent jurisdiction, by clear and convincing evidence, that
Executive had no reasonable basis for his claim hereunder, or for his response
to the Company s claim hereunder, or acted in bad faith, no further payment of
or reimbursement for Legal and Other Expenses shall be due to Executive in
respect of such claim and Executive shall refund any amounts previously paid or
reimbursed hereunder with respect to such claim.  

  6.2            Interest .  If the Company does not pay an amount due to
Executive under this Agreement within five business days after such amount
first became due and owing, interest shall accrue on such amount from the date
it became due and owing until the date of payment at an annual rate equal to
200 basis points above the base commercial lending rate published in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect from time to time during
the period of such nonpayment.  

ARTICLE VII.   
NO SET-OFF OR MITIGATION  

  7.1              No Set-off by Company .  Executive s right to receive when due the
payments and other benefits provided for under this Agreement is absolute,
unconditional and subject to no set-off, counterclaim or legal or equitable
defense.  Time is of the essence in the
performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement.  Any claim that the Company may have against
Executive, whether for a breach of this Agreement or otherwise, shall be
brought in a separate action or proceeding and not as part of any action or
proceeding brought by Executive to enforce any rights against the Company under
this Agreement, except if (i) the Company s claim is determined by a court
to be a compulsory counterclaim under applicable law or (ii) if a court
determines that the Company would otherwise be materially prejudiced if its
claim were to be brought in a separate action.  

  7.2              No Mitigation .  Executive shall not have any duty to mitigate
the amounts payable by the Company under this Agreement by seeking new
employment or self-employment following termination.  Except as specifically otherwise provided in
this Agreement, all amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid
without reduction regardless of any amounts of salary, compensation or other
amounts that may be paid or payable to Executive as the result of Executive s
employment by another employer or self-employment.  

26  

ARTICLE VIII.   
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS  

  8.1              Non-Competition .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the period
beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the first anniversary of the
Termination Date, directly or indirectly, in any capacity:  

  (a)           engage or participate in, become
employed by, serve as a director of, or render advisory or consulting or other
services in connection with, any Competitive Business; provided, however, that
this Section 8.1(a) shall not preclude Executive from being an employee of, or
consultant to, any business unit of a Competitive Business if (i) such business
unit does not qualify as a Competitive Business in its own right and (ii) Executive
does not have any direct or indirect involvement in, or responsibility for, any
operations of such Competitive Business that cause it to qualify as a
Competitive Business; or  

  (b)           make or retain any financial
investment, whether in the form of equity or debt, or own any interest, in any
Competitive Business; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall
restrict Executive from making an investment in any Competitive Business if
such investment (i) represents no more than 1% of the aggregate market value of
the outstanding capital stock or debt (as applicable) of such Competitive
Business, (ii) does not give Executive any right or ability, directly or
indirectly, to control or influence the policy decisions or management of such
Competitive Business, and (iii) does not create a conflict of interest between
Executive s duties under this Agreement and his interest in such investment.  

  8.2              Non-Solicitation .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the period
beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the first anniversary of the
Termination Date, directly or indirectly:  

  (a)           other than in connection with the
good-faith performance of his duties as an officer of the Company, encourage
any employee or agent of the Company to terminate his relationship with the
Company;  

  (b)           employ, engage as a consultant or
adviser, or solicit the employment or engagement as a consultant or adviser, of
any employee or agent of the Company (other than by the Company or its
Affiliates), or cause or encourage any Person to do any of the foregoing;  

  (c)           establish (or take preliminary steps
to establish) a business with, or encourage others to establish (or take
preliminary steps to establish) a business with, any employee or agent of the
Company; or  

  (d)           interfere with the relationship of
the Company with, or endeavor to entice away from the Company, any Person who
or which at any time during the period commencing one year prior to the
Agreement Date was or is a material customer or material supplier of, or
maintained a material business relationship with, the Company.  

27  

8.3              Reasonableness of Restrictive
Covenants .  

  (a)           Executive acknowledges that the
covenants contained in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 are reasonable in the scope of the
activities restricted, the geographic area covered by the restrictions, and the
duration of the restrictions, and that such covenants are reasonably necessary
to protect the Company s relationships with its employees, customers and
suppliers.  Executive further
acknowledges such covenants are essential elements of this Agreement and that,
but for such covenants, the Company would not have entered into this Agreement.  

  (b)           The Company and Executive have each
consulted with their respective legal counsel and have been advised concerning
the reasonableness and propriety of such covenants.  Executive acknowledges that his observance of
the covenants contained in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 will not deprive him of the
ability to earn a livelihood or to support his dependents.  

  8.4              Right to Injunction; Survival of
Undertakings .  

  (a)           In recognition of the necessity of
the limited restrictions imposed by Sections 8.1 and 8.2, the parties agree
that it would be impossible to measure solely in money the damages that the
Company would suffer if Executive were to breach any of his obligations under
such Sections.  Executive acknowledges
that any breach of any provision of such Sections would irreparably injure the
Company.  Accordingly, Executive agrees
that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to any other remedies to which
the Company may be entitled under this Agreement or otherwise, to an injunction
to be issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, to restrain any actual
breach, or threatened breach, of such provisions, and Executive hereby waives
any right to assert any defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law
for any such breach.  

  (b)           If a court determines that any of the
covenants included in this Article VIII is unenforceable in whole or in part
because of such covenant s duration or geographical or other scope, such court
may modify the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, so as
to cause such covenant as so modified to be enforceable.  

  (c)           All of the provisions of this Article
VIII shall survive any Termination of Employment without regard to (i) the
reasons for such termination or (ii) the expiration of the Agreement Term.  

  8.5              Non-Disparagement .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the two-year
period commencing on the Termination Date (a) make any written or oral
statement that brings the Company or any of its then-current or former
employees, officers or agents into disrepute, or tarnishes any of their images
or reputations or (b) publish, comment on or disseminate any statements
suggesting or accusing the Company or any of its then-current or former agents,
employees or officers of any misconduct or unlawful behavior.  This Section shall not be deemed to be
breached by testimony of Executive given in any judicial or governmental
proceeding that Executive reasonably   

28  

believes to be truthful at the time given or by any
other action of Executive that he reasonably believes is taken in accordance
with the requirements of applicable law or administrative regulation.  

ARTICLE IX.   
NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS  

  9.1              Waiver of Certain Other Rights .  To the extent that Executive shall have
received severance payments or other severance benefits under any other Plan or
agreement of the Company prior to receiving severance payments or other
severance benefits pursuant to Article IV, the severance payments and other
severance benefits under such other Plan or agreement shall reduce (but not
below zero) the corresponding severance payments or other severance benefits to
which Executive shall be entitled under Article IV.  To the extent that Executive receives
payments or other benefits pursuant to Article IV, Executive hereby waives
the right to receive a corresponding amount of future severance payments or
other severance benefits under any other Plan or agreement of the Company.  To the extent that Executive receives payments
pursuant to Section 4.1(b), Executive hereby waives the right to receive
payments or other benefits under any Non-Qualified Plan that have accrued as of
the Termination Date.  To the extent that
Executive received payments or other benefits pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(ii) or
(iii),  Executive hereby waives the right
to receive any Annual Bonus or LTIP Bonus payments with respect to the Annual
Performance Period or LTIP Performance Periods in effect as of the Termination
Date.  

  9.2              Other Rights .  Except as expressly provided in
Section 9.1, this Agreement shall not prevent or limit Executive s
continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other
Plans provided by the Company and for which Executive may qualify, nor shall
this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have
under any other agreements with the Company. 
Amounts that are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise
entitled to receive under any Plan and any other payment or benefit required by
law at or after the Termination Date shall be payable in accordance with such
Plan or applicable law except as expressly modified by this Agreement.  

ARTICLE X.   
MISCELLANEOUS  

  10.1              No Assignability .  This Agreement is personal to Executive and
without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by
Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and be enforceable by Executive s legal representatives.  

  10.2              Successors .  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and be binding on the Company and its successors and assigns.  The Company will require any successor
(whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise)
to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company to assume
expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the
same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if   

29  

no such succession had taken place.  Any successor to the business or assets of
the Company that assumes or agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of
law, contract, or otherwise shall be jointly and severally liable with the
Company under this Agreement as if such successor were the Company.  

  10.3              Payments to Beneficiary .  If Executive dies before receiving amounts to
which Executive is entitled under this Agreement, such amounts shall be paid in
a lump sum to one or more beneficiaries designated in writing by Executive
(each, a   Beneficiary  ), or if none is so designated, to Executive s
estate.  

  10.4              Non-Alienation of Benefits .  Benefits payable under this Agreement shall
not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer,
assignment, pledge, encumbrance, charge, garnishment, execution or levy of any
kind, either voluntary or involuntary, before actually being received by
Executive, and any such attempt to dispose of any right to benefits payable
under this Agreement shall be void.  

  10.5              No Deference .  Unless otherwise expressly provided in this
Agreement, no determination pursuant to, or interpretation of, this Agreement
made by the board of directors (or any committee thereof) of Allstate or any
Successor Corporation shall be entitled to any presumptive validity or other
deference in connection with any judicial or administrative proceeding relating
to or arising under this Agreement.  

  10.6              Severability .  If any one or more Articles, Sections or
other portions of this Agreement are declared by any court or governmental
authority to be unlawful or invalid, such unlawfulness or invalidity shall not
serve to invalidate any Article, Section or other portion not so declared to be
unlawful or invalid.  Any Article,
Section or other portion so declared to be unlawful or invalid shall be
construed so as to effectuate the terms of such Article, Section or other
portion to the fullest extent possible while remaining lawful and valid.  

  10.7              Amendments .  This Agreement shall not be amended or
modified except by written instrument executed by Executive, Allstate and AIC.  

  10.8              Notices .  All notices and other communications under
this Agreement shall be in writing and delivered by hand, by nationally
recognized delivery service that promises overnight delivery, or by first-class
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
addressed as follows:  

  If to Executive, to Executive at his most recent home
address on file with the Company.  

  If to
Allstate or AIC:  

  The Allstate Corporation  

  2775 Sanders Road  

  Northbrook, Illinois  60062  

  Attention:  General Counsel  

30  

or to such other address as either party shall have
furnished to the other in writing. 
Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by
the addressee.  

  10.9            Counterparts .  This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together constitute one and the same instrument.  

  10.10          Governing Law .  This Agreement shall be interpreted and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois, without regard
to its choice of law principles.  

  10.11          Captions .  The captions of this Agreement are not a part
of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.  

  10.12          Number and Gender .  Wherever appropriate, the singular shall
include the plural, the plural shall include the singular, and the masculine
shall include the feminine.  

  10.13          Tax Withholding .  The Company may withhold from any amounts
payable under this Agreement any Taxes that are required to be withheld by any
applicable law or regulation.  

  10.14          No Waiver .  Executive s failure to insist upon strict
compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of
such provision or any other provision of this Agreement.  A waiver of any provision of this Agreement
shall not be deemed a waiver of any other provision, and any waiver of any
default in any such provision shall not be deemed a waiver of any later default
thereof or of any other provision.  

  10.15          Joint and Several Liability .  The obligations of Allstate and AIC to
Executive under this Agreement shall be joint and several.  

  10.16          No Rights Prior to Effective Date .  Notwithstanding any provision of this
Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement shall not entitle Executive to any
compensation, severance or other benefits of any kind prior to an Effective
Date.  

  10.17        Six-month
Delay .  Any payment considered to be
deferred compensation under Section 409A of the Code and not subject to an
exception or exemption thereunder, shall not be paid to Executive prior to the
first business day following the date that is six (6) months after the date of
Executive s Termination of Employment. 
Any payments that would otherwise have been made to Executive during
such six (6) month period shall instead be aggregated and not paid to Executive
prior to the first business day following the date that is six (6) months after
the date of  Executive s Termination of
Employment.  Any payments subject to a
six-month delay shall be paid with interest which shall accrue from the date
such payment became due and owing until the date of payment at an annual rate
equal to 200 basis points above the base commercial lending rate published in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect from time to time during
the six-month delay period.  Any payments
scheduled to be made after the date that is six (6) months after the
Termination of Employment shall be paid to Executive in accordance with the
other provisions of this Agreement or applicable plan.  

10.18.       Interpretation
to Avoid 409A Penalties .  This
Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code
so as to avoid the imposition of excise   

31  

taxes
and penalties on the Executive under Section 409A of the Code.  The Agreement shall be interpreted, construed
and administered consistent with that intent.  

  10.19        Entire Agreement .  This Agreement contains the entire
understanding of Allstate, AIC and Executive with respect to its subject
matter.  

32  

[IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, Executive, Allstate and AIC have executed this Change of Control
Employment Agreement as of the date first above written.]6  

[IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
Executive, Allstate and AIC have executed this Amended and Restated Change of
Control Employment Agreement as of
                                                                .]7  

EXECUTIVE  

[insert
  name of Executive]   

THE ALLSTATE
  CORPORATION  

By:  

Title:  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE
  COMPANY  

By:  

Title:  

(6)           This text is to be used in Agreements
entered into on or after November 13, 2007.  

(7)                                      This text is to be used in Agreements
originally entered into prior to November 13, 2007, and being amended and
restated on or after this date.  

33  

</EX-10.29>

<EX-10.30>
 8
 a2182971zex-10_30.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.30

Exhibit 10.30   

AMENDED AND RESTATED  

CHANGE OF CONTROL EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

AMONG  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION,  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY  

AND  

[NAME OF EXECUTIVE]  

  (Tier
Two)  

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

i  

ii  

THE
ALLSTATE CORPORATION  

AMENDED AND RESTATED  

CHANGE OF CONTROL EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

The Allstate
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (  Allstate  ), Allstate Insurance
Company, an Illinois insurance company (  AIC  ), and
                                              (  Executive  )
are parties to a Change of Control Employment Agreement originally entered into
on
                   (the  Agreement Date ).  To comply with the provisions of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code so as to avoid the imposition of excise taxes and
penalties on the Executive under Section 409A and to amend certain provisions
of the original Agreement, this Amended and Restated Agreement is entered into,
to be effective as of December 31, 2008.  

PURPOSES  

On February 12,
1999 Allstate originally adopted Change of Control Employment Agreements, and
on November 13, 2007 approved certain changes to the terms of such
Agreements.   Allstate has determined that it is in the best interests of Allstate
and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have the continued service
of Executive.  Allstate also believes it
is imperative to reduce the distraction of Executive that would result from the
personal uncertainties caused by a pending or threatened change of control of
Allstate, to encourage Executive s full attention and dedication to the
Company, and to provide Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements
upon a change of control that will satisfy the expectations of Executive and be
competitive with those of similarly situated corporations.  This Agreement is intended to accomplish
these objectives.   

ARTICLE
I.  

  CERTAIN DEFINITIONS  

As used in this Agreement, the terms specified
below shall have the following meanings:  

1.1             Accrued Annual Bonus   means
the amount of any Annual Bonus earned and due to be paid but not yet paid to
Executive as of the Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that
Executive has elected to defer.  

1.2             Accrued Base Salary   means
the amount of Executive s Base Salary that is accrued but unpaid as of the
Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that Executive has elected to
defer.  

1.3             Accrued LTIP Bonus   means the
amount of any LTIP Bonus earned and due to be paid but not yet paid to
Executive as of the Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that
Executive has elected to defer.  

1.4             Accrued Obligations   means,
as of any date, the sum of Executive s Accrued Base Salary, Accrued Annual
Bonus, Accrued LTIP Bonus, any accrued but unpaid vacation pay, and any other
amounts and benefits that are then due to be paid or provided to Executive by
the Company (other than pursuant to Sections 2.4 or 4.1(b) or any defined
benefit or defined contribution plan of the Company, whether or not qualified
under Section 401(a) of the Code), but have not yet been paid or provided (as
applicable).  

1.5             Agreement Date     see the
introductory paragraph of this Agreement.  

1.6             Agreement Term   means the
period commencing on the Agreement Date and ending on the third anniversary of
the Agreement Date or, if later, such later date to which the Agree ment Term
is extended pursuant to the following sentence. 
Commencing on the second anniversary of the Agree ment Date, the
Agreement Term shall automatically be extended each day by one day to create a
new one-year term until, at any time after the second anniversary of the
Agreement Date, the Company delivers written notice (an   Expiration Notice  )
to Executive that the Agree ment shall expire on a date specified in the
Expiration Notice (the   Expiration Date  ) that is not less than 12
months after the date the Expiration Notice is delivered to Executive;
provided, how ever, that if an Effective Date or an Imminent Control Change
Date occurs before the Expiration Date specified in the Expiration Notice, then
such Expiration Notice shall be void and of no further effect.    Imminent Control Change Date   means
(i) any date on which a proposal or offer for a Change of Control is presented
to Allstate s stockholders generally or to any of Allstate s directors or
executive officers or is publicly announce d (whether by advertisement, press
release, press interview, public statement, SEC filing or otherwise) or
(ii) any subsequent date as of which such proposal or offer for a Change
of Control remains effective and has not expired or been revoked.  

1.7             AIC     see the introductory
paragraph of this Agreement.  

1.8             Allstate     see the
introductory paragraph of this Agreement.  

1.9             Annual
Bonus     see Section 2.2(b).  

1.10           Annual Performance Period     see
Section 2.2(b).  

1.11           Article   means an article of
this Agreement.  

1.12           Base Salary     see Section
2.2(a).  

1.13           Beneficiary     see Section
10.3.  

1.14           Board   means the Board of
Directors of Allstate or, from and after the Effective Date of a Change of
Control that gives rise to a Surviving Corporation, the Board of Directors of
such Surviving Corporation.  

2  

1.15           Bonus Plan     see Section
2.2(b).  

1.16           Cause     see Section 3.3(b).  

1.17           CEO   means Chief Executive
Officer.  

1.18           Change of Control   means,
except as otherwise provided at the end of this Section, the occurrence of any
one or more of the following:  

(a)           ( Voting Power)   any Person or group (as such term
is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), other than a
Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of Allstate or
any of its Subsidiaries, acquires or has acquired during the 12-month period
ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person of Persons,
ownership of stock of Allstate possessing 30% or more of the combined voting
power of all Voting Securities of Allstate (such a Person or group that is not
a Similarly Owned Company (as defined below), a   More than 30% Owner  ),
except that no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred solely by
reason of such ownership by a corporation with respect to which both more than
70% of the common stock of such corporation and Voting Securities representing
more than 70% of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of such
corporation are then owned, directly or indirectly, by the Persons who were the
direct or indirect owners of the common stock and Voting Securities of Allstate
immediately before such acquisition in substantially the same propor tions as
their ownership, immediately before such acquisition, of the common stock and
Voting Securities of Allstate, as the case may be (a   Similarly Owned
Company   or  

(b)            (Majority Ownership) 
any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section
1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or
any related trust) of Allstate or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires ownership
of more than 50% of the voting power of all Voting Securities of Allstate or of
the total fair market value of the stock of Allstate (such a Person or group
that is not a Similarly Owned Company, a   Majority Owner  ), except that
no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such
ownership by a  Similarly Owned Company ; or  

(c)            (Board Composition)  a
majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by
directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the
members of the Board before the date of the appointment or election (    Board Turnover   or   

(d)            (Reorganization)  the
consummation of a merger, reorganiza tion, consolidation, or similar
transaction, or of a plan or agree ment for the sale or other disposition of
all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Allstate, or a plan of
liquidation of Allstate (any of the foregoing, a   Reorgani zation Transac tion  )
that, does not qualify as an Exempt Reorganization Transaction.  

3  

Notwithstanding
anything contained herein to the contrary, no transaction or event shall
constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement unless the
transaction or event constituting the Change of Control also constitutes a
change in the ownership of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation
Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)), a change in effective control of a corporation (as
defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)) or a change in the
ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation (as defined
in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii)).  

1.19           Code   means the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  Any
reference to any section of the Code shall also refer to any successor
provision.  

1.20           Company   means Allstate, AIC
and each of Allstate s other Subsidiaries.  

1.21           Company Certificate     see
Section 5.1(b).  

1.22           Company Counsel Opinion     see
Section 5.5.  

1.23           Competitive Business   means as
of any date (including during the one-year period commencing on the Termination
Date) any corporation or other Person (and any branch, office or operation
thereof) that engages in, or proposes to engage in:  

(a)           the underwriting, reinsurance,
marketing or sale of (i) any form of insurance of any kind that the Company as
of such date does, or proposes to, underwrite, reinsure, market or sell (any
such form of insurance, an   Allstate Insurance Product  ) or (ii) any
other form of insurance that is marketed or sold in competition with any Allstate
Insurance Product, or  

(b)           any other business that as of such
date is a direct and material competitor of the Company;  

and that is located (i) anywhere in the
United States, or (ii) anywhere outside of the United States where the
Company is then engaged in, or proposes to engage in, any of such activities.  

1.24           Consummation Date   means the
date on which a Reorganiza tion Transaction is consummated.  

1.25           Disability   -- see
Section 3.1(b).  

1.26           Disability Effective Date     see
Section 3.1.  

1.27           Effective Date   means the date
on which a Change of Control first occurs during the Agreement Term.  

1.28           Exchange Act   means the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

4  

1.29           Excise Taxes     see Section
5.1.  

1.30           Executive Counsel Opinion     see
Section 5.5.  

1.31           Executive s Gross-Up Determination  
  see Section 5.2(a).  

1.32           Exempt
Reorganization Transac tion   means a Reorganization Transaction that fails
to result in (a) any Person or group becoming a More than 30% Owner or a
Majority Owner, (b) Board Turnover, or (c) a sale or disposition of the assets
of Allstate that have a total Gross Fair Market Value (as defined below) equal
to at least forty percent (40%) of the total Gross Fair Market Value of all of
the assets of Allstate immediately before such transaction.    Gross Fair Market Value   means the
value of the assets of Allstate, or the value of the assets being disposed of,
determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.  

                  1.33           Good Reason   -- see
Section 3.4(b).  

1.34           Gross-up Multiple     see
Section 5.4.  

1.35           Gross-up Payment   --
see Section 5.1.  

1.36           including   means including
without limitation.  

1.37           IRS   means the Internal Revenue
Service.  

1.38           IRS Claim     see Section 5.6.  

1.39           Legal and Other Expenses     see
Section 6.1(a).  

1.40           LTIP   means the Allstate
Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (or any successor plan).  

1.41           LTIP Award   means an incentive
compensation opportunity granted under the LTIP.  

1.42           LTIP Bonus   means the amount
paid or earned in respect of an LTIP Award.  

1.43           LTIP Performance Period   means
any performance period designated in accordance with any LTIP approved by the
Board or any committee of the Board.  

1.44           LTIP Target Award   means, in
respect of any LTIP Award, the amount that Exec u tive would have been entitled
to receive for the LTIP Perfor mance Period corresponding to such LTIP Award if
the performance goals established pursuant to such LTIP Award were achieved at
the 100% level as of the end of the LTIP Perfor mance Period.  

5  

1.45           Lump Sum Value   of an annuity
payable pursuant to a defined benefit plan means, as of a specified date, the present
value of such annuity, as determined, as of such date, under generally accepted
actuarial principles using (i) the applicable interest rate, mortality tables
and other methods and assumptions under Code Section 417(e) as published by the
IRS and used for determin ing the value of an immediate annuity on the
Termination Date or (ii) if such interest rate and mortality assumptions are no
longer published by the IRS, the interest rate and mortality assumptions
determined in a manner as similar as practicable to the manner by which the
Code Section 417(e) interest rate and mortality assumptions were determined
immediately prior to the IRS s cessation of publication of such assumptions;
provided, however, that if such defined benefit plan provides for a lump sum
distribution and such lump-sum distribution either (x) is the only payment
method available under such plan or (y) provides for a greater amount than the
Lump Sum Value of the Maximum Annuity available under such plan, then  Lump Sum
Value  shall mean such lump sum amount.  

1.46           Maximum Annuity   means, in
respect of a defined benefit plan (whether or not qualified under Section
401(a) of the Code), an annuity computed in whatever manner permitted under
such plan (including frequency of annuity payments, attained age (whether
determined as of a current date or as of a future date upon the commence ment
of annuity payments), and nature of surviving spouse benefits, if any) that
yields the greatest Lump Sum Value.  

1.47          More than 30 %
Owner     see paragraph (a) of the definition of  Change of Control.   

                  1.48           Notice of Consideration     see
Section 3.3(c).  

1.49           Non-Qualified Plan     see
Section 2.4.  

1.50           Notice of Termination   means a written notice given
in accordance with Section 10.8 that sets forth (i) the specific
termination provision in this Agreement relied on by the party giving such
notice, (ii) in reasonable detail the specific facts and circumstances
claimed to provide a basis for such Termination of Employment, and (iii) if
the Termination Date is other than the date of receipt of such Notice of
Termination, the Termination Date.  

1.51           Person   means any individual,
sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company,
trust, unincorporated organization, association, corporation, institution,
public benefit corpo ration, entity or government instrumentality, division,
agency, body or department.  

1.52           Plans   means plans, programs,
or Policies of the Company.  

1.53           Policies   means policies,
practices or procedures of the Company.  

6  

1.54           Post-Change Period   means the
period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the second anniversary of
the Effective Date.  

1.55           Potential Parachute Payments    
see Section 5.1.  

1.56           Pro-rata Annual Bonus   means,
in respect of the Company s fiscal year during which the Termination Date
occurs, an amount equal to the product of Executive s Target Annual Bonus
(determined as of the Termination Date) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator
of which equals the number of days from and including the first day of such
fiscal year through and including the Termination Date, and the denominator of
which equals 365.  

1.57           Pro-rata LTIP Bonus   means an
amount equal to the sum of each of the following amounts:  for each LTIP Performance Period that is in
effect as of a Termination Date, Executive s LTIP Target Award for such LTIP
Performance Period multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which equals the
number of days from and including the beginning of such LTIP Performance Period
through and including the Termination Date, and the denominator of which equals
the aggregate number of days in such LTIP Performance Period.  

1.58           Refund Claim     see Section
5.6.  

1.59           Reorganization Transaction     see
clause (d) of the definition of  Change of Control.   

1.60           Restricted Shares   means shares
of restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar awards.  

1.61           SEC   means the Securities and
Exchange Commission.  

1.62           Section   means, unless the
context otherwise requires, a section of this Agreement.  

1.63           SERP   means a supplemental
executive retirement Plan that is a Non-Qualified Plan.  

1.64           Stock Options   means stock
options, stock appreciation rights (including limited stock appreciation
rights), or similar awards.  

1.65           Subsidiary   means any
corporation, business trust, limited liability company or partnership with
respect to which Allstate owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities
representing more than 50% of the aggregate voting power of the
then-outstanding Voting Securities.  

1.66           Surviving Corporation   means
the corporation resulting from a Reorganization Transaction or, if securities
representing at least 50% of the aggregate Voting Power of such   

7  

resulting corporation are directly or indirectly
owned by another corporation, such other corporation.  

1.67           Target Annual Bonus   as of any
date means the amount equal to the product of Base Salary determined as of such
date multiplied by the per cent age of such Base Salary to which Exec u tive
would have been entitled immedi ately prior to such date under any Bonus Plan
for the Annual Perfor mance Period for which the Annual Bonus is award ed if
the performance goals established pursuant to such Bonus Plan were achieved at
the 100% level as of the end of the Annual Perfor mance Period.  

1.68           Taxes   means federal, state,
local and other income, employment and other taxes.  

1.69           Termination Date   means the
date of the receipt of the Notice of Termination by Executive (if such Notice
is given by the Company) or by the Company (if such Notice is given by
Executive), or any later date, not more than 15 days after the giving of such
Notice, specified in such Notice; provided, however, that:  

(a)           if Executive s employment is
terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Termination Date shall be the
date of Executive s death or the Disability Effective Date (as defined in
Section 3.1(a)), as applicable; and  

(b)           if no Notice of Termination is given,
the Termination Date shall be the last date on which Executive is employed by
the Company.  

1.70           Termination of Employment  
means any termination of Executive s employment with the Company, whether such
occurs by reason of (a) the initiative of any Company or Executive or
(b) the death of Executive; provided that such termination is also a  separation
from service  within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h).  

                  1.71           Voting Securities   of a corporation
means securities of such corporation that are entitled to vote generally in the
election of directors of such corporation.  

ARTICLE II.  

  POST-CHANGE PERIOD  

2.1            Position and Duties .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period, (x)
Executive s authority, responsibilities (not including reporting responsibili ties),
and duties shall be at least commensurate in all material respects with the
most significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the
90-day period immediately before the   

8  

Effective Date and (y) Executive s services
shall be performed at the location where Executive was employed immediate ly
before the Effective Date or any other location which does not constitute a
material geographic change from the former location.  

(b)           During the Post-Change Period (except
during any periods of vacation to which Executive is entitled and any
authorized sick, disability or other leave of absence), Executive shall devote
Executive s full attention and time to the business and affairs of the Com pany
and, to the extent necessary to discharge the duties assigned to Executive in
accor dance with this Agreement, to use Executive s best efforts to perform
such duties.  During the Post-Change
Period, Executive may (i) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards
or committees, (ii) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or
teach at educational institutions and (iii) manage personal invest ments,
so long as such activities are consistent with the Policies of the Company at
the Effective Date and do not significantly interfere with the perfor mance of
Executive s duties under this Agreement. 
To the extent that any such activities have been conducted by Executive
immediately prior to the Effective Date and were consis tent with the Policies
of the Company at the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities
(or activities similar in nature and scope) after the Effective Date shall not
be deemed to interfere with the perfor mance of Executive s duties under this
Agreement.  

2.2            Compensation .  

(a)            Base Salary .  During the Post-Change Period, the Company
shall pay or cause to be paid to Executive an annual base salary in cash, which
shall be paid in a manner consistent with the Company s payroll practices in
effect immediate ly before the Effective Date, at an annual rate not less than
12 times the highest monthly base salary paid or payable to Executive by the
Company in respect of the 12-month period immediately before the
Effective Date (such annual rate salary, the   Base Salary  ).  During the Post-Change Period, the Base
Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time
and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in
base salary awarded to other peer execu tives of the Company. Any increase in
Base Salary shall not limit or reduce any other obligation of the Company to
Executive under this Agree ment.  After
any such increase, the Base Salary shall not be reduced and  Base Salary  shall
thereafter refer to the increased amount.  

(b)            Annual Bonus .  The Company shall also pay or cause to be
paid to Executive a bonus (the   Annual Bonus  ), which shall not be less
than the Target Annual Bonus determined as of the Effective Date, for each
Annual Perfor mance Period that ends during the Post-Change Period.    Annual Performance Period   means each
period designated in accordance with any annual bonus arrangement or Plan (a   Bonus
Plan  ) that is based on performance and approved by the Board or any
committee of the Board, or in the absence of any Bonus Plan or any such
designated period of time, each calendar year.  

9  

(c)            LTIP Bonus .  The Company shall also:  

(i)            pay or cause to be paid to Executive
an LTIP Bonus equal to the LTIP Target Award for each LTIP Award for which an
LTIP Performance Period is in effect as of the Effective Date; and  

(ii)           throughout the Post-Change Period,
grant LTIP Awards to Executive as follows:  

(1)           LTIP Awards shall be granted no less
frequently than is contemplated by the terms of the LTIP and the Company s
practices thereunder, as such terms and practices are in effect immediately
prior to the Effective Date;  

(2)           each such LTIP Award shall provide
for the payment of a percentage of Executive s Base Salary in effect at the
beginning of the Performance Period applicable to such LTIP Award that is no
less than the average of the Target LTIP Percentages (as defined below) for all
of Executive s LTIP Awards outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Date;
and  

(3)           the target performance goals
established for each such LTIP Award shall be substantially comparable to the target
perfor mance goals under Executive s LTIP Awards outstanding on the Effective
Date;  

Target LTIP Per centage   means, in respect of any LTIP Award,
the per cent age of Executive s Base Salary (determined as of the beginning of
the applicable LTIP Performance Period) that Executive would be entitled to
receive after the completion of the applicable LTIP Perfor mance Period if the
performance goals applicable to such LTIP Award as of the date immedi ately
prior to the Effective Date were achieved at the 100% level.  

(d)            Incentive, Savings and Retirement
Plans .  Executive shall also be
entitled to participate during the Post-Change Period in all cash and equity
incentive (including long-term incentives), savings and retirement Plans
applicable to other peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall such
Plans provide Executive with incentive (including long-term incentives),
savings and retirement benefits during the Post-Change Period that are
materially less valuable or have terms materially less favorable, in the
aggregate, than the most valuable and favorable of those provided by the
Company for Executive under such Plans as in effect at any time during the
90-day period immediately before the Effective Date.  

(e)            Welfare Benefit Plans .  During the Post-Change Period , Executive and
Executive s family shall be eligible to participate in, and receive all
benefits under, welfare   

10  

benefit
Plans provided by the Company (including medical, prescription, dental,
disability, salary continuance, individual life, group life, dependent life,
accidental death and travel accident insurance Plans) and applicable to other
peer executives of the Company and their families, but in no event shall such Plans
provide benefits during the Post-Change Period  that are materially less
favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided to
Executive under such Plans as in effect at any time during the 90-day period
immediately before the Effective Date.  

(f)             Fringe Benefits .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable
Plans applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall such
Plans provide fringe benefits that are material ly less favorable, in the
aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company to
Executive under such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day period
immediately before the Effective Date.  

(g)            Expenses .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to prompt reimbursement of all reasonable employment-related
expenses incurred by Executive upon the Company s receipt of accountings in
accordance with the most favorable Policies applicable to peer executives of
the Company, but in no event shall such Policies be materially less favorable,
in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company for
Executive under such Policies in effect at any time during the 90-day period
immediately before the Effective Date.  

(h)            Office and Support Staff .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and
other appointments, and to secretarial and other assistance in accordance with
the most favorable Policies applicable to peer executives of the Com pany, but
in no event shall such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate,
than the most favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under
such Policies in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before
the Effective Date.  

(i)             Vacation .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable
Policies applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall
such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most
favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under such Policies in
effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective
Date.  

2.3            Stock Incentive Awards .  On the Effective Date of a Change of Control
(i) all of Executive s unvested Stock Options then outstanding (whether granted
before or after the Agreement Date) shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable,
and (ii) all of Executive s Restricted Shares then outstanding shall
immediately become fully vested and nonforfeitable.  This Section amends all award agreements
dated as of any date before the Agreement Date. 
Accordingly, all provisions of such award agreements relating to a
change of control of the   

11  

Company, including all grants of limited stock
appreciation rights, are hereby cancelled effective as of the Agreement Date.  

2.4            Unfunded Deferred Compensation .  On the Effective Date of a Change of Control,
Executive shall become fully vested in all benefits previously accrued under
any de ferred compensation Plan (including a SERP) that is not qualified under
Section 401(a) of the Code (a   Non-Qualified Plan  ).  Within five busi ness days after the
Effective Date of a Change of Control, the Company shall pay to Executive a
lump-sum cash amount equal to:  

(a)           the sum of the Lump-Sum Values of all
Maximum Annuities that are payable pursuant to all defined benefit
Non-Qualified Plans, plus  

(b)           the sum of Executive s account
balances under all defined contribution Non-Qualified Plans.  

To the extent that, if, for any reason, any
portion of such Non-Qualified Plan benefit is not so paid, the Company shall
pay Executive in lieu thereof a lump-sum cash payment equal to such unpaid
portion within the five-busi ness day period specified in the preceding
sentence.  

ARTICLE III.  

  TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

3.1            Disability .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period, the
Company may terminate Executive s employment because of Executive s Disability
by giving Executive or his legal representative, as applicable,
(i) written notice in accordance with Section 10.8 of the Company s
intention to terminate Executive s employment pursuant to this Section and
(ii) a certification of Executive s Disability by a physician selected by
the Company or its insurers, subject to the consent of Executive or Executive s
legal representa tive, which consent shall not be unreason ably withheld or
delayed.  Executive s employment shall
terminate effective on the 30th day (the   Disability Effective Date  )
after Executive s receipt of such notice unless, before the Disability
Effective Date, Executive shall have resumed the full-time performance of
Executive s duties.  

(b)             Disability   means any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment of an Executive that:  

(i)            has lasted for a continuous period
of not less than (x) six months or (y) such longer period, if any,
that is available to Executive under the Company s Policies relating to the
continuation of employee status after the onset of disability, as such Policies
are in effect when Disability is determined, but in no event shall such
Policies be materially less favorable to the Executive than the most favorable   

12  

of such Policies in effect for peer executives at
any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective Date,  

(ii)           can be expected to be permanent or of
indefinite duration, and  

(iii)          renders Executive unable to perform
the duties required under this Agreement.  

3.2            Death .  Executive s employment shall terminate
automatically upon Executive s death during the Post-Change Period.  

3.3            Cause .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period, the
Company may terminate Executive s employment for Cause solely in accordance
with all of the substantive and procedural provisions of this Section.  

(b)             Cause   means any one or more
of the following:  

(i)            Executive s conviction of a felony
or other crime involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude;  

(ii)           Executive s willful or reckless
material misconduct in the performance of Executive s duties;  

(iii)          Executive s habitual neglect of
duties; or  

(iv)          Executive s willful or intentional
breach of this Agreement;  

provided, however, that for purposes of clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv),
Cause shall not include any one or more of the following:  

(1)           bad judgment or negligence;  

(2)           any act or omission believed by
Executive in good faith to have been in or not opposed to the interest of the
Company (without intent of Executive to gain, directly or indirectly, a profit
to which Executive was not legally entitled);  

(3)           any act or omission with respect to
which a determination could properly have been made by the Board that Executive
had satisfied the applicable standard of conduct for indemnification or
reimbursement under Allstate s by-laws, any applicable indemnification
agreement, or applicable law, in each case as in effect at the time of such act
or omis sion; or  

13  

(4)           any act or omission with respect to
which Executive receives a Notice of Consideration  (as defined below) more than
six months after the earliest date on which any member of the Board, not a
party to the act or omission, knew or should have known of such act or
omission; and  

further provided, that if a breach of this Agreement involved an act or
omission based on Executive s good faith and reasonable belief that Executive s
act or omission was in the best interests of the Company or was required by
applicable law or administrative regulation, such breach shall not constitute
Cause unless the Company gives Executive written notice of such breach that
specifically refers to this Section and, within 30 days after such notice is
given, Executive fails to cure such breach to the fullest extent that it is
curable.  

(c)           The Company shall strictly observe
each of the following procedures in connection with any Termination of
Employment for Cause:  

(i)            A meeting of the Board shall be
called for the stated purpose of determining whether Executive s acts or
omissions satisfy the requirements of Section 3.3(b) and, if so, whether
to terminate Executive s employment for Cause.  

(ii)           Not less than 30 days prior to the
date of such Board meeting, the Company shall provide Executive and each member
of the Board written notice (a   Notice of Consider ation  ) that includes
(x) a detailed description of the acts or omissions alleged to constitute
Cause, (y) the date, time and location of such meeting of the Board and
(z) Executive s rights under clause (iii) below.  

(iii)          Executive shall have the opportuni ty
to present to the Board a written response to the Notice of Consider ation.  Executive shall not have any right to appear
before the Board.  

(iv)          Executive s employment may be
terminated for Cause only if (x) the acts or omissions specified in the
Notice of Consider ation did in fact occur and do constitute Cause as defined
in this Section, (y) the Board makes a specific determina tion to such effect
and to the effect that Executive s employ ment should be terminated for Cause
and (z) the Company thereafter provides Executive with a Notice of
Termination which specifies in specific detail the basis of such Termina tion
of Employ ment for Cause and which Notice shall be consistent with the reasons
set forth in the Notice of Consid er ation. 
The Board s determina tion specified in clause (y) of the preceding
sentence shall require the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the members of
the Board.  

(v)           In the event that the existence of
Cause shall become an issue in any action or proceeding between the Company and
Executive, the Company shall, notwith standing the determination referenced in
clause (iv) of this Section 3.3(c),   

14  

have the burden of establish ing that the actions
or omissions specified in the Notice of Consideration did in fact occur and do
constitute Cause and that the Company has satisfied the procedural requirements
of this Section 3.3(c).  The satisfaction
of the Company s burden shall require clear and convincing evidence.  

3.4            Good Reason .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period,
Executive may terminate his employment for Good Reason in accordance with the
substantive and procedural provisions of this Section.  A Term  ination of Employment for
Good Reason will be deemed to have occurred during the Post-Change Period if Executive
gives notice as provided in Section 3.4(d) within the Post-Change Period and
the Termination of Employment is no more than thirty (30) days after the
expiration of the cure period described in Section 3.4(e).  

(b)             Good Reason   means the first
to occur of the following actions or omissions that, unless otherwise
specified, occurs during a Post-Change Period without the consent of Executive:  

(i)            a   material diminution in
Executive s base compensation ;   

(ii)           any material   diminution in
Executive s authority, duties, or responsibilities as set forth in Paragraph
2.1(a) ;   

(iii)            any material diminution in
the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the person to whom Executive
reports ;   

(iv)            a material change in the
geographic location at which Executive must perform services; or  

(v)             any other action or inaction
that constitutes a material breach of this Agreement by the Company.  

(c)           Any reasonable determination by
Executive that any of the events specified in subsection (b) above has occurred
and constitutes Good Reason shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes,
unless the Company establishes by clear and convincing evidence that Executive
did not have any reasonable basis for such determination.  

(d)           In the event of any Termination of
Employ ment by Executive for Good Reason, Executive shall notify the Company of
the events constituting such Good Reason by a Notice of Termination within
ninety days of the date Executive should have known of the events constituting
Good Reason.  

15  

(e)              Company shall have thirty days from the date
Executive provides Notice of Termination pursuant to Section 3.4(d) to remedy
the conditions constituting Good Reason during which period no termination for
Good Reason shall be deemed to have occurred.  

  (f)            If the Company has not remedied the
conditions constituting Good Reason within the thirty-day period described in
Section 3.4(e), then, in order for Executive s termination to constitute a
termination for Good Reason, the date of Termination of Employment must occur
no later than twelve (12) months after the date of the first action or omission
constituting Good Reason.  

  ARTICLE IV.  

  COMPANY S OBLIGATIONS
UPON A TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

4.1            If by Executive for Good Reason or
by the Company Other Than for Cause or Disability .  If, during the Post-Change Period, the
Company terminates Executive s employment other than for Cause or Disability,
or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason, the Company s sole
obligations to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be
as follows:  

(a)           The Company shall pay Executive, in
addition to all vested rights arising from Executive s employment as specified
in Article II, a lump-sum cash amount equal to the sum of the following:  

(i)            all Accrued Obligations;  

(ii)           Executive s Pro-rata Annual Bonus
reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any Annual Bonus paid to
Executive with respect to the Company s fiscal year in which the Termination
Date occurs;  

(iii)          Executive s Pro-rata LTIP Bonus
reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any LTIP Bonus paid to Executive
with respect to the Company s fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs;  

(iv)          all amounts previously deferred by, or
accrued to the benefit of, Executive under any defined contribution
Non-Qualified Plans, whether or not vested, together with any accrued earnings
thereon, to the extent that such amounts and earnings have not been previously
paid by the Company (whether pursuant to Section 2.4 or otherwise);  

(v)           an amount equal to two (2.0) times
the sum of (y) Base Salary, and (z) the Target Annual Bonus, each
determined as of the Termination Date; provided, however, that any reduction in
Executive s Base Salary or Target Annual Bonus that would qualify as Good
Reason shall be disregarded for this purpose; and  

16  

(vi)          to the extent not paid pursuant to
clause (iv) of this Section 4.1(a), an amount equal to the sum of the value of
the unvested portion of Executive s accounts or accrued benefits under any
defined contribution Plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of the
Code) maintained by the Company as of the Termination Date and forfeited by
Executive by reason of the Termination of Employment.  

Such lump-sum amount shall be paid no more than
five business days after the date of 
Termination of Employment.  

(b)           The Company shall pay Executive, in
lieu of all benefits under all defined benefit Non-Qualified Plans that have
accrued on or before the Termination Date but remain unpaid as of such date, a
lump-sum cash amount equal to the positive difference, if any, between:  

(i)            the sum of the Lump-Sum Values of
each Maximum Annuity that would be payable to Executive under any defined
benefit Plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code) if
Executive had:  

(1)           become fully vested in all such
benefits to the extent that such benefits are unvested as of the Termination
Date,  

(2)           attained as of the Termination Date
an age that is two years greater than Executive s actual age,  

(3)           accrued a number of years of service
(for purposes of determining the amount of such benefits, entitle6nment to
early retirement benefits, and all other purposes of such defined benefit
plans) that is two years greater than the number of years of service actually
accrued by Executive as of the Termination Date, and  

(4)           received the lump-sum severance
benefits specified in Section 4.1(a) (excluding all LTIP Bonuses, and all
amounts in respect of Stock Options or Restricted Shares, if any) as covered
compensation in equal monthly installments during the two-year period following
Termination of Employment,  

minus  

(ii)           the sum of (x) the Lump-Sum Values of
the Maximum Annuity benefits vested and payable (whether currently or at some
future date) to Executive under each defined benefit Plan that is qualified
under Section 401(a) of the Code and (y) the aggregate amounts simultaneously
or previously paid (whether pursuant to Section 2.4 or otherwise) to Executive
under the defined benefit Plans (whether   

17  

or not qualified under Section 401(a) of the
Code) described in clause (i) of this Section 4.1(b).  

Such lump-sum amount shall be paid no more than
five business days after the date of Termination of Employment.  

(c)           (i) On the date of Termination of
Employment, all of Executive s unvested Stock Options then outstanding (whether
granted before or after the Agreement Date) shall immediately become fully
vested and exercisable, and (ii) all of Executive s Restricted Shares then
outstanding shall immediately become fully vested and nonforfeitable.  This Section amends all award agreements
dated as of any date before the Agreement Date. Accordingly, all provisions of
such award agreements relating to a change of control of the Company, including
all grants of limited stock appreciation rights, are hereby cancelled effective
as of the Agreement Date.  

(d)           All of Executive s then-outstanding
Stock Options that were granted after the Agreement Date, whether vested on or
before the date of Termination of Employment, shall thereafter remain
exercisable until the last to occur of (x) the first anniversary of the date of
Termination of Employment, and (y) any period provided in the applicable
stock option agreement or stock option plan as then in effect, but in no event
shall such period of exercisability continue after the earlier of (i) the date
on which such Stock Options would have expired if Executive had remained an
employee of the Company, or (ii) the tenth anniversary of the original date of
the Stock Option grant.  

(e)           Within five business days after the
date of Executive s Termination of Employment, the Company shall deliver to
Executive certificates for all Restricted Shares theretofore held by or on
behalf of the Company.  

(f)            The Company shall pay on behalf of
Executive all reasonable fees and costs charged by the outplacement firm
selected by Executive to provide outplacement services to Executive that are
incurred no later than the end of the second year following the year in which
the Termination of Employment occurs.  

(g)             During the period of time
which Executive would be entitled to continuation coverage under a
Company-sponsored group health plan under Section 4980 of the Code  or such later date as any Plan may specify, the
Company shall continue to make available to Executive and Executive s family
welfare benefits (including medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary
continu ance, individual life, group life, accidental death and travel accident
insurance plans and programs) that are at least as favorable as the most
favorable Plans of the Company applicable to other peer executives and their
families as of the Termination Date, but which are in no event less favorable
than the most favorable Plans of the Company applicable to other peer
executives and their families during the 90-day period immediately before the
Effective Date.  The cost of such welfare
benefits,  including  continuation
coverage required by Section 4980 of the Code ( COBRA ), to    

18  

Executive shall not exceed the cost of such
benefits to Executive immediately before the Termination Date or, if less, the
Effective Date.  Executive s rights under
this Section shall be co-extensive with any post-termination continuation
coverage Executive may have pursuant to applicable law, including COBRA.  Accordingly, in order to receive this
coverage, Executive shall timely elect continuation coverage under COBRA for
Executive and Executive s covered dependents. 
Notwith standing any of the above, such welfare benefits shall be
secondary to any similar welfare benefits provided by Executive s subsequent
employer as provided in the Plans.  

4.2            If
by the Company for Cause .  If the
Company terminates Executive s employment for Cause during the Post-Change
Period, the Company s sole obligation to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2
and this Article shall be to pay Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to all
Accrued Obligations determined as of the Termination Date.  

4.3            If
by Executive Other Than for Good Reason . 
If Executive terminates employment during the Post-Change Period other
than for Good Reason, Disability or death, the Company s sole obligation to
Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be to pay Executive
a lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations determined as of the
Termination Date.  

4.4            If
by the Company for Disability .  If
the Company terminates Executive s employment by reason of Executive s
Disability during the Post-Change Period, the Company s sole obligation to Executive
under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be as follows:  

(a)           to pay Executive a lump-sum cash
amount equal to all Accrued Obligations determined as of the Termination Date,
and  

(b)           to provide Executive disability and
other benefits after the Termination Date that are not less favorable to
Executive than the most favorable of such benefits then available under Plans
of the Company to disabled peer executives of the Company.  

Such disability and other benefits shall also be
not materially less favorable, in the aggregate, to Executive than the most
favorable of the disability and other benefits available to Executive under
such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding
the Effective Date.  

4.5            If
Upon Death .  If Executive s
employment is terminated by reason of Executive s death during the Post-Change
Period, the Company s sole obligations to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2
and this Article shall be as follows:  

(a)           to pay Executive s estate or
Beneficiary a lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations; and  

(b)           to provide Executive s estate or
Beneficiary survivor and other benefits that are not less than the most
favorable survivor and other benefits then available under Plans of the Company
to the estates or the surviving families of peer executives of the Company.  

19  

Such survivor benefits shall also be no less
favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of the survivor benefits
available to Executive under such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day
period immediately preceding the Effective Date.  

4.6                                      Amount Contested   .  

(a)           In the event of any dispute between
the Company and Executive as to the nature or extent of the Company s obligation
to make any payments or provide other benefits to Executive or Executive s
family pursuant to Sections 4.1 or 2.4, Executive shall have the right,
exercisable by written notice given to the Company   within 90 days after the Executive
believes a payment or provision of benefits should have occurred , to obtain, within 30 days after the Company s
receipt of Executive s demand therefor, a written certificate prepared by the
Company and certified by Allstate s independent auditors (a   Section 4.6
Certificate  ). The Section 4.6 Certificate shall specify in detail either
(i) the amount and nature of each payment or other benefit that the Company
believes is then due and owing to Executive pursuant to Section 2.4 or 4.1, as
applicable, or (ii) if the Company asserts that the conditions to Executive s
entitlement to severance or other benefits pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as
applicable, have for any reason not been satisfied, the amount and nature of
each payment or other benefit that the Company believes would be due and owing
to Executive pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, if all of such
applicable conditions had been fully satisfied. 
Executive may not demand more than one Section 4.6 Certificate in respect
of his rights under Section 4.1 or more than one Section 4.6 Certificate
in respect of his rights under Section 2.4.   

(b)           Each Section 4.6 Certificate shall
include schedules that specify in detail how each amount or other benefit
specified therein was computed, together with appropriate references to
specific provisions of this Agreement or of any applicable Plans or Policies of
the Company, copies of which Plans or Policies shall be attached to such
schedules.  

(c)           The Company shall be precluded from
asserting that any portion of the payments or other benefits due to Executive
pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, is less than the amount
specified in the Section 4.6 Certificate. The Section 4.6 Certificate shall in
no event be binding on Executive and Executive shall have the right to assert
that any or all of the payments or other benefits to be provided pursuant to
Section 4.1 or 2.4 are greater than or different from those specified in the
Section 4.6 Certificate.  

(d)           If the Company shall for any reason
fail to deliver to Executive a Section 4.6 Certificate in compliance with
this Section within 30 days after the Company s receipt of Executive s written
demand therefor, Executive s determination of the amount and nature of payments
or other benefits due to Executive (i) pursuant to Section 4.1 and set forth in
an Executive s Severance Determination (as defined below) or (ii) pursuant to
Section 2.4 and set forth in an Executive s Deferred Compensation Determination
(as defined below) shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of this
Agreement unless the Company shall establish, by clear and convincing evidence,
that Executive s Severance Determination or   

20  

Executive s Deferred Compensation Determination,
as applicable, is incorrect and that a different amount (which may be zero or a
positive amount) or nature of payments or other benefits is correct.    Executive s Severance Determination  
means an opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation counsel to the
effect that the amount and nature of severance and other benefits due to
Executive pursuant to Section 4.1 is the amount and nature that a court of
competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further
appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with
this Agreement and applicable law.    Executive s
Deferred Compensation Determination   means an opinion of nationally
recognized executive compensation counsel to the effect that the amount of
payments due to Executive pursuant to Section 2.4 is the amount that a court of
competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further
appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with
this Agreement and applicable law.  

ARTICLE V.  

  Certain Additional Payments by the Company  

5.1            Gross-up
for Certain Taxes .  

(a)           If it is determined by Allstate s
independent auditors that any monetary or other benefit received or deemed
received by Executive from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to this Agreement
or otherwise, whether or not in connection with a Change of Control (such
monetary or other benefits collectively, the   Potential Parachute Pay ments  ),
is or will become subject to any excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code
or any similar tax under any United States federal, state, local or other law
other than Section 409A of the Code (such excise tax and all such similar taxes
collectively,   Excise Taxes  ), then the Company shall, subject to
Sections 5.6 and 5.7, within five business days after such determination, pay
Executive an amount (the   Gross-Up Payment  ) equal to the product of:  

(i)            the amount of such Excise Taxes  

multiplied by  

(ii)           the Gross-Up Multiple (as
defined in Section 5.4).  

The Gross-Up Payment is
intended to compensate Executive for all Excise Taxes payable by Executive with
respect to Potential Parachute Payments and all Taxes or Excise Taxes payable
by Executive with respect to the Gross-Up Payment.    The Company shall not
compensate Executive for any taxes, penalties or interest related to Section
409A of the Code payable by Executive.  

(b)           The determination of Allstate s
independent auditors described in Section 5.1(a), including the detailed
calculations of the amounts of the Potential Parachute   

21  

Payments, Excise Taxes and Gross-Up Payment and
the assumptions relating thereto, shall be set forth in a written certificate
of such auditors (the   Company Certificate  ) delivered to
Executive.  Executive or the Company may
at any time request the preparation and delivery to Executive of a Company
Certificate.  The Company shall cause the
Company Certificate to be delivered to Executive as soon as reasonably possible
after such request.  

5.2            Determination
by Executive .  

(a)           If (i) the Company shall fail to
deliver a Company Certificate to Executive within 30 days after its receipt of
his written request therefor, or (ii) within 90 days after Executive s receipt
of a Company Certificate, Executive provides notice to Company that Executive
disputes either (x) the amount of the Gross-Up Payment set forth therein or (y)
the determination set forth therein to the effect that no Gross-Up Payment is
due by reason of Section 5.7 or otherwise, and Executive takes further measures
within 180 days to enforce the Gross-Up Payment, then Executive may elect to
require the Company to pay a Gross-Up Payment in the amount determined by
Executive as set forth in an Executive Counsel Opinion (as defined in Section
5.5).  Any such demand by Executive shall
be made by delivery to the Company of a written notice that specifies the
Gross-Up Payment determined by Executive (together with the detailed
calculations of the amounts of Potential Parachute Payments, Excise Taxes and
Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions relating thereto) and an Executive Counsel
Opinion regarding such Gross-Up Payment (such written notice and opinion
collectively, the   Executive s Gross-Up Determi na tion  ).  Within 30 days after delivery of an Executive s
Gross-Up Determination to the Company, the Company shall either (i) pay
Executive the Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Executive s Gross-Up
Determination (less the portion thereof, if any, previously paid to Executive
by the Company) or (ii) deliver to Executive a Company Certificate and a
Company Counsel Opinion (as defined in Section 5.5), and pay Executive the
Gross-Up Payment specified in such Company Certificate.  If for any reason the Company fails to comply
with the preceding sentence, the Gross-Up Payment specified in the Executive s
Gross-Up Determination shall be controlling for all purposes.  

(b)           If Executive does not request a
Company Certificate, and the Company does not deliver a Company Certificate to
Executive, then (i) the Company shall, for purposes of Section 5.7, be deemed
to have determined that no Gross-Up Payment is due and (ii) Executive shall not
pay any Excise Taxes in respect of Potential Parachute Payments except in
accordance with Sections 5.6(a) or (d).  

5.3            Additional
Gross-up Amounts .  If for any reason
(whether pursuant to subsequently enacted provisions of the Code, other than
Section 409A of the Code, final regulations or published rulings of the IRS, a
final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, a determination of the
Company s independent auditors set forth in a Company Certificate or, subject
to the last two sentences of Section 5.2(a), an Executive s Gross-Up
Determination) it is later determined that the amount of Excise Taxes payable
by Executive is greater than the amount determined by the Company or Executive
pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable, then the Company shall,   

22  

subject to Sections 5.6 and 5.7, pay Executive
within 30 days after the determination, an amount (which shall also be deemed a
Gross-Up Payment) equal to the product of:  

(a)           the sum of (i) such additional
Excise Taxes and (ii) any interest, penalties, expenses or other costs
incurred by Executive as a result of having taken a position in accordance with
a determination made pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable,  

multiplied by  

(b)           the Gross-Up Multiple.  

5.4            Gross-up
Multiple .  The   Gross-Up Multiple  
shall equal a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1.0), and the
denominator of which is one (1.0) minus the lesser of (i) the sum, expressed as
a decimal fraction, of the effective after-tax marginal rates of all Taxes and
any Excise Taxes applicable to the Gross-Up Payment or (ii) 0.80, it being
intended that the Gross-Up Multiple shall in no event exceed five (5.0).  (If different rates of tax are applicable to
various portions of a Gross-Up Payment, the weighted average of such rates
shall be used.)  For purposes of this
Section, Executive shall be deemed to be subject to the highest effective
after-tax marginal rate of Taxes.  

5.5            Opinion
of Counsel .    Executive Counsel
Opinion   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation
counsel to the effect (i) that the amount of the Gross-Up Payment determined by
Executive pursuant to Section 5.2 is the amount that a court of competent
jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further appeal, is most
likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with this Article and
applicable law and (ii) if the Company has previously delivered a Company
Certificate to Executive, that there is no reasonable basis or no substantial
authority for the calculation of the Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Company
Certificate.   Company Counsel Opinion   means an opinion of nationally
recognized executive compensation counsel to the effect that (i) the amount of
the Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Company Certificate is the amount that a
court of competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to
further appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance
with this Article and applicable law and (ii) for purposes of Section 6662 of
the Code, Executive has substantial authority to report on his federal income
tax return the amount of Excise Taxes set forth in the Company Certificate.  

5.6            Amount
Increased or Contested .  

(a)           Executive shall notify the Company in
writing (an   Executive s Notice  ) of any claim by the IRS or other
taxing authority (an   IRS Claim  ) that, if successful, would require the
payment by Executive of Excise Taxes in respect of Potential Parachute Payments
in an amount in excess of the amount of such Excise Taxes determined in
accordance with Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable.  Executive s Notice shall include the nature
and amount of such IRS Claim, the date on which such IRS Claim is due to be
paid (the   IRS Claim Deadline ), and a copy of all notices and other
documents or correspondence received by Executive in respect of such IRS
Claim.  Executive shall give the
Executive s Notice as   

23  

soon as practicable, but no later than the
earlier of (i) 10 business days after Executive first obtains actual knowledge
of such IRS Claim or (ii) five business days before the IRS Claim Deadline;
provided, however, that any failure to give such Executive s Notice shall
affect the Company s obligations under this Article only to the extent that the
Company is actually prejudiced by such failure. 
If at least one business day before the IRS Claim Deadline the Company
shall:  

(i)            deliver to Executive a Company
Certificate to the effect that the IRS Claim has been reviewed by the Company s
independent auditors and, notwithstanding the IRS Claim, the amount of Excise
Taxes, interest or penalties payable by Execu tive is less than the amount
specified in the IRS Claim,  

(ii)           pay to Executive an amount (which
shall also be deemed a Gross-Up Payment) equal to the positive difference
between the product of (x) the amount of Excise Taxes, interest and penalties
specified in the Company Certificate, if any, multiplied by (y) the Gross-Up
Multiple, less the portion of such product, if any, previously paid to
Executive by the Company, and  

(iii)          direct Executive pursuant to Section
5.6(d) to contest the balance of the IRS Claim,  

then Executive shall pay only the amount, if any, of Excise Taxes,
interest and penalties specified in the Company Certificate.  In no event shall Executive pay an IRS Claim
earlier than 30 days after having given an Executive s Notice to the Company
(or, if sooner, the IRS Claim Deadline).  

(b)           At any time after the payment by
Executive of any amount of Excise Taxes or related interest or penalties in
respect of Potential Parachute Payments (whether or not such amount was based
on a Company Certificate, an Executive s Gross-Up Determination or an IRS
Claim), the Company may in its discretion require Executive to pursue a claim
for a refund (a   Refund Claim  ) of all or any portion of such Excise
Taxes, interest or penalties as the Company may specify by written notice to
Executive.  

(c)           If the Company notifies Executive in
writing that the Company desires Executive to contest an IRS Claim or to pursue
a Refund Claim, Executive shall:  

(i)            give the Company all information
that it reasonably requests in writing from time to time relating to such IRS
Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable,  

(ii)           take such action in connection with
such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) as the Company reasonably
requests in writing from time to time, including accepting legal representation
with respect thereto by an attorney selected   

24  

by the Company, subject to the approval of
Executive (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed),  

(iii)          cooperate with the Company in good
faith to contest such IRS Claim or pursue such Refund Claim, as applicable,  

(iv)          permit the Company to participate in
any proceedings relating to such IRS Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, and  

(v)           contest such IRS Claim or prosecute
Refund Claim (as applicable) to a determination before any administrative
tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate
courts, as the Company may from time to time determine in its discretion.  

The Company shall control all proceedings in
connection with such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) and in its
discretion may cause Executive to pursue or forego any and all administrative
appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the IRS or other taxing authority
in respect of such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable); provided that (i)
any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for
the taxable year of Executive relating to the IRS Claim is limited solely to
such IRS Claim, (ii) the Company s control of the IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as
applicable) shall be limited to issues with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment
would be payable, and (iii) Executive shall be entitled to settle or contest,
as the case may be, any other issue raised by the IRS or other taxing
authority.  

(d)           The Company may at any time in its
discretion direct Executive to (i) contest the IRS Claim in any lawful manner
or (ii) pay the amount specified in an IRS Claim and pursue a Refund Claim;
provided, however, that if the Company directs Executive to pay an IRS Claim
and pursue a Refund Claim, the Company shall advance the amount of such payment
to Executive on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify Executive, on
an after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise Taxes and related interest or
penalties imposed with respect to such advance.  

(e)           The Company shall pay directly all
legal, accounting and other costs and expenses (including additional interest
and penalties) incurred by the Company or Executive in connection with any IRS
Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, and shall indemnify Executive, on an
after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise Taxes and related interest and
penalties imposed as a result of such payment of costs and expenses.  

5.7            Limitations
on Gross-Up Payments .  

(a)           Notwithstanding any other provision
of this Arti cle V, if the aggregate After-Tax Amount (as defined below) of the
Potential Parachute Payments and Gross-Up Payment that, but for this Section
5.7, would be payable to Executive, does not exceed 110% of   

25  

the after-tax Floor Amount (as defined below),
then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive and the aggregate amount of
Potential Parachute Payments payable to Executive shall be reduced (but not
below the Floor Amount) to the largest amount that would both (i) not cause any
Excise Taxes to be payable by Executive and (ii) not cause any Potential
Parachute Payments to become nondeductible by the Company by reason of Section
280G of the Code (or any successor provision). 
For purposes of the preceding sentence, Executive shall be deemed to be
subject to the highest effective after-tax marginal rate of Taxes.  

(b)           For purposes of this Agreement:  

(i)              After-Tax
Amount   means the portion of a specified amount that would remain after
payment of all Taxes and Excise Taxes paid or payable by Executive in respect
of such specified amount; and  

(ii)             Floor Amount   means the
greatest pre-tax amount of Potential Parachute Payments that could be paid to
Executive without causing Executive to become liable for any Excise Taxes in
connection therewith; and  

(iii)            After-Tax
Floor Amount   means the After-Tax Amount of the Floor Amount.  

5.8            Refunds .  If, after the receipt by Executive of any payment
or advance of Excise Taxes by the Company pursuant to this Article, Executive
receives any refund with respect to such Excise Taxes, Executive shall (subject
to the Company s complying with any applicable requirements of Section 5.6)
promptly pay the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest
paid or credited thereon after Taxes applicable thereto).  If, after the receipt by Executive of an
amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5.6, a determination is made
that Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim
and the Company does not notify Executive in writing of its intent to contest
such determination within 30 days after the Company receives written
notice of such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not
be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the
extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.  Any contest of a denial of refund shall be
con trolled by Section 5.6.  

ARTICLE VI.  

  Expenses and Interest  

6.1            Legal
and Other Expenses .  

(a)           If Executive incurs legal fees
(including fees in connection with the delivery of an Executive Counsel
Opinion) or other expenses (including expert witness and accounting fees) in an
effort to determine, secure, preserve, establish entitlement to, or obtain
benefits under this Agreement (collectively,   Legal and Other Expenses  ),
the Company shall,  

26  

regardless of the outcome of such effort, pay or
reimburse Executive for such Legal and Other Expenses in accordance with
Section 6.1(b).  

(b)           All Legal and Other Expenses shall be
paid or reimbursed on a monthly basis within 10 days after Allstate s receipt
of Executive s written request accompanied by evidence that such Legal and
Other Expenses were incurred.  

(c)           If Executive does not prevail (after
exhaustion of all available judicial remedies) in respect of a claim by
Executive or by the Company hereunder, and the Company establishes before a
court of competent jurisdiction, by clear and convincing evidence, that
Executive had no reasonable basis for his claim hereunder, or for his response
to the Company s claim thereunder, or acted in bad faith, no further payment of
or reimbursement for Legal and Other Expenses shall be due to Executive in
respect of such claim and Executive shall refund any amounts previously paid or
reimbursed hereunder with respect to such claim.  

6.2            Interest .  If the Company does not pay an amount due to
Executive under this Agreement within five business days after such amount
first became due and owing, interest shall accrue on such amount from the date
it became due and owing until the date of payment at an annual rate equal to
200 basis points above the base commercial lending rate published in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect from time to time during
the period of such nonpayment.  

ARTICLE VII.  

  No Set-off or Mitigation  

7.1            No
Set-off by Company .  Executive s
right to receive when due the payments and other benefits provided for under
this Agreement is absolute, unconditional and subject to no set-off, counterclaim
or legal or equitable defense.  Time is
of the essence in the performance by the Company of its obligations under this
Agreement.  Any claim that the Company
may have against Executive, whether for a breach of this Agreement or otherwise,
shall be brought in a separate action or proceeding and not as part of any
action or proceeding brought by Executive to enforce any rights against the
Company under this Agreement, except if (i) the Company s claim is
determined by a court to be a compulsory counterclaim under applicable law or
(ii) if a court determines that the Company would otherwise be materially
prejudiced if its claim were to be brought in a separate action.  

7.2            No
Mitigation .  Executive shall not have
any duty to mitigate the amounts payable by the Company under this Agreement by
seeking new employment or self-employment following termination.  Except as specifically otherwise provided in
this Agreement, all amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid
without reduction regardless of any amounts of salary, compensation or other
amounts that may be paid or payable to Executive as the result of Executive s
employment by another employer or self-employment.  

27  

ARTICLE VIII.  

  Restrictive Covenants  

8.1            Non-Competition . 
  If Executive remains employed by the Company on
the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the period beginning
on the Effective Date and ending on the first anniversary of the Termination
Date, directly or indirect ly, in any capacity:  

(a)           engage or participate in, become
employed by, serve as a director of, or render advisory or consulting or other
services in connection with, any Competitive Business; provided, however, that
this Section 8.1(a) shall not preclude Executive from being an employee of, or
consultant to, any business unit of a Competitive Business if (i) such business
unit does not qualify as a Competitive Business in its own right and (ii)
Executive does not have any direct or indirect involvement in, or
responsibility for, any operations of such Competitive Business that cause it
to qualify as a Competitive Business; or  

(b)           make or retain any financial
investment, whether in the form of equity or debt, or own any interest, in any
Competitive Business; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall
restrict Executive from making an investment in any Competitive Business if
such investment (i) represents no more than 1% of the aggregate market value of
the outstanding capital stock or debt (as applicable) of such Competitive
Business, (ii) does not give Executive any right or ability, directly or
indirectly, to control or influence the policy decisions or management of such
Competitive Business, and (iii) does not create a conflict of interest between
Executive s duties under this Agreement and his interest in such investment.  

8.2            Non-Solicitation .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the period
beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the first anniversary of the
Termination Date, directly or indirectly:  

(a)           other than in connection with the
good-faith performance of his duties as an officer of the Company, encourage
any employee or agent of the Company to terminate his relationship with the
Company;  

(b)           employ, engage as a consultant or
adviser, or solicit the employment or engagement as a consultant or adviser, of
any employee or agent of the Company (other than by the Company or its
Affiliates), or cause or encourage any Person to do any of the foregoing;  

(c)           establish (or take preliminary steps
to establish) a business with, or encourage others to establish (or take
preliminary steps to establish) a business with, any employee or agent of the
Company; or  

28  

(d)           interfere with the relationship of
the Company with, or endeavor to entice away from the Company, any Person who
or which at any time during the period commencing one year prior to the
Agreement Date was or is a material customer or material supplier of, or
maintained a material business relation ship with, the Company.  

8.3            Reasonableness
of Restrictive Covenants .  

(a)           Executive acknowledges that the
covenants contained in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 are reasonable in the scope of the
activities restricted, the geographic area covered by the restrictions, and the
duration of the restrictions, and that such cove nants are reasonably necessary
to protect the Company s relationships with its employees, customers and suppliers.  Executive further acknowl edges such
covenants are essential elements of this Agreement and that, but for such
covenants, the Company would not have entered into this Agreement.  

(b)           The Company and Executive have each
consulted with their respective legal counsel and have been advised concerning
the reasonableness and propriety of such covenants.  Executive acknowledg es that his observance
of the covenants contained in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 will not deprive him of the
ability to earn a livelihood or to support his dependents.  

8.4            Right
to Injunction; Survival of Undertakings .  

(a)           In recognition of the necessity of
the limited restric tions imposed by Sections 8.1 and 8.2, the parties agree
that it would be impossible to measure solely in money the damages that the
Company would suffer if Executive were to breach any of his obligations under
such Sections.  Executive acknowledges
that any breach of any provision of such Sections would irreparably injure the
Company.  Accordingly, Executive agrees
that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to any other remedies to which
the Company may be entitled under this Agreement or otherwise, to an injunction
to be issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, to restrain any actual
breach, or threatened breach, of such provisions, and Executive hereby waives
any right to assert any defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law
for any such breach.  

(b)           If a court determines that any of the
covenants included in this Article VIII is unenforceable in whole or in part
because of such covenant s duration or geographical or other scope, such court
may modify the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be, so as
to cause such covenant as so modified to be enforceable.  

(c)           All of the provisions of this Article
VIII shall survive any Termination of Employment without regard to (i) the
reasons for such termination or (ii) the expiration of the Agreement Term.  

29  

8.5            Non-Disparagement .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the two-year
period commencing on the Termina tion Date (a) make any written or oral
statement that brings the Company or any of its then-current or former
employees, officers or agents into disrepute, or tarnishes any of their images
or reputations or (b) publish, comment on or disseminate any statements
suggesting or accusing the Company or any of its then-current or former agents,
employees or officers of any misconduct or unlawful behavior.  This Section shall not be deemed to be
breached by testimony of Executive given in any judicial or governmental
proceeding that Executive reasonably believes to be truthful at the time given
or by any other action of Executive that he reasonably believes is taken in
accordance with the requirements of applicable law or administrative
regulation.  

ARTICLE IX.  

  Non-Exclusivity of Rights  

9.1            Waiver
of Certain Other Rights.   To the
extent Executive shall have received severance payments or other severance
benefits under any other Plan or agreement of the Company prior to receiving
severance payments or other severance benefits pursuant to Article IV, the
severance payments and other severance benefits under such Plan or agreement
shall reduce (but not below zero) the corresponding severance payments or other
severance benefits to which Executive shall be entitled under Article IV.  To the extent that Executive receives
payments or other benefits pursuant to Article IV, Executive hereby waives the
right to receive a corresponding amount of future severance payments or other
severance benefits under any other Plan or agreement of the Company.  To the extent that Executive receives
payments pursuant to Section 4.1(b), Executive hereby waives the right to
receive payments or other benefits under any Non-Qualified Plan that have
accrued as of the Termination Date.  To
the extent that Executive received payments or other benefits pursuant to
Section 4.1(a)(ii) or (iii), Executive hereby waives the right to receive any
Annual Bonus or LTIP Bonus payments with respect to the Annual Performance
Period of LTIP Performance Periods in effect as of the Termination Date.  

9.2            Other
Rights .  Except as expressly provided
in Section 9.1, this Agreement shall not prevent or limit Executive s
continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other
Plans provided by the Company and for which Executive may qualify, nor shall
this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have
under any other agreements with the Company. 
Amounts that are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise
entitled to receive under any Plan and any other payment or benefit required by
law at or after the Termination Date shall be payable in accordance with such
Plan or applicable law except as expressly modified by this Agreement.  

30  

ARTICLE X.  

  Miscellaneous  

10.1          No
Assignability .  This Agreement is
personal to Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company
shall not be assignable by Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution.  This Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive s legal
representatives.  

10.2          Successors .  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and be binding on the Company and its successors and assigns.  The Company will require any successor
(whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise)
to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company to assume
expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the
same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such
succession had taken place.  Any
successor to the business or assets of the Company that assumes or agrees to
perform this Agreement by operation of law, contract, or otherwise shall be
jointly and severally liable with the Company under this Agreement as if such
successor were the Company.  

10.3          Payments
to Beneficiary .  If Executive dies
before receiving amounts to which Executive is entitled under this Agreement,
such amounts shall be paid in a lump sum to one or more beneficiaries
designated in writing by Executive (each, a   Beneficiary  ), or if none
is so designated, to Executive s estate.  

10.4          Non-Alienation
of Benefits .  Benefits payable under
this Agree ment shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation,
sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encum brance, charge, garnishment,
execution or levy of any kind, either voluntary or involuntary, before actually
being received by Executive, and any such attempt to dispose of any right to
benefits payable under this Agreement shall be void.  

10.5          No
Deference .  Unless otherwise
expressly provided in this Agreement, no determination pursuant to, or
interpretation of, this Agreement made by the board of directors (or any
committee thereof) of Allstate or any Successor Corporation shall be entitled
to any presumptive validity or other deference in connection with any judicial
or administrative proceeding relating to or arising under this Agreement.  

10.6          Severability .  If any one or more Articles, Sections or
other portions of this Agreement are declared by any court or governmental
authority to be unlawful or invalid, such unlawfulness or invalidity shall not
serve to invalidate any Article, Section or other portion not so declared to be
unlawful or invalid.  Any Article, Section
or other portion so declared to be unlawful or invalid shall be construed so as
to effectuate the terms of such Article, Section or other portion to the
fullest extent possible while remaining lawful and valid.  

10.7          Amendments .  This Agreement shall not be amended or
modified except by written instrument executed by Executive, Allstate and AIC.  

31  

10.8          Notices .  All notices and other communications under
this Agreement shall be in writing and delivered by hand, by nationally recog nized
delivery service that promises overnight delivery, or by first-class registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as
follows:  

If to Executive, to Executive at his most
  recent home address on file with the Company.  

If to Allstate or AIC:  

The Allstate Corporation  

2775 Sanders Road  

Northbrook, Illinois 60062  

Attention: General Counsel  

or to such other address as either party shall
have furnished to the other in writing. 
Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by
the addressee.  

10.9          Counterparts .  This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together constitute one and the same instrument.  

10.10        Governing
Law .  This Agreement shall be
interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois,
without regard to its choice of law principles.  

10.11        Captions .  The captions of this Agreement are not a part
of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.  

10.12        Number
and Gender .  Wherever appropriate,
the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the singular,
and the masculine shall in clude the feminine.  

10.13        Tax
Withholding .  The Company may withhold
from any amounts payable under this Agreement any Taxes that are required to be
withheld by any applicable law or regulation.  

10.14        No
Waiver .  Executive s failure to
insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not be
deemed a waiver of such provision or any other provision of this
Agreement.  A waiver of any provision of
this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of any other provision, and any
waiver of any default in any such provision shall not be deemed a waiver of any
later default thereof or of any other provision.  

10.15        Joint
and Several Liability .  The
obligations of Allstate and AIC to Executive under this Agreement shall be
joint and several.  

32  

10.16        No
Rights Prior to Effective Date . 
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, this
Agreement shall not entitle Executive to any compensation, severance or other
benefits of any kind prior to an Effective Date.  

10.17       S   ix-month Delay   .  Any payment considered to be deferred
compensation under Section 409A of the Code and not subject to an exception or
exemption thereunder, shall not be paid to Executive prior to the first
business day following the date that is six (6) months after the date of Executive s
Termination of Employment.  Any payments
that would otherwise have been made to Executive during such six (6) month
period shall instead be aggregated and not paid to Executive prior to the first
business day following the date that is six (6) months after the date of  Executive s Termination of Employment.  Any payments subject to a six-month delay
shall be paid with interest which shall accrue 
from the date such payment became due and owing until the date of payment at an
annual rate equal to 200 basis points above the base commercial lending rate
published in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect
from time to time during the six-month delay period .  Any payments scheduled to be made after the
date that is six (6) months after the Termination Date shall be paid to
Executive in accordance with the other provisions of this Agreement or
applicable plan.  

10.18.       Interpretation to Avoid 409A Penalties .  This Agreement is intended to comply with the
provisions of Section 409A of the Code so as to avoid the imposition of excise
taxes and penalties on the Executive under Section 409A of the Code.  The Agreement shall be interpreted, construed
and administered consistent with that intent.  

10.19        Entire Agreement .  This Agreement contains the entire understanding
of Allstate, AIC and Executive with respect to its subject matter.  

33  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive, Allstate and AIC
have executed this Amended and Restated Change of Control Employment Agreement
as of December 31, 2008.  

EXECUTIVE  

[Name of Executive]   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION  

By:  

Title:  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY  

By:  

Title:  

34  

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 9
 a2182971zex-10_31.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.31

Exhibit 10.31   

Termination of  

  Change of Control Employment Agreement  

  Among  

  The Allstate Corporation,  

  Allstate Insurance Company  

  and  

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, The Allstate Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company and                                           hereby
terminate the Change of Control Employment Agreement among The Allstate
Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company and                                      effective
December 31, 2007.  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION  

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY  

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

</EX-10.31>

<EX-12>
 10
 a2182971zex-12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12     

   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION 
COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES RATIO     

(A)    The
Company has authority to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share; however, there are currently no shares outstanding and the Company does not
have a preferred stock dividend obligation. Therefore, the Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends is equal to the Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and is not disclosed
separately.
      (B)    In
this presentation, interest credited to contractholder funds is excluded to promote transparency and allows users of this exhibit to quantify the impact of interest credited to
contractholder funds on the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 11
 a2182971zex-21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21   

Subsidiaries   

Company
  Name   

Domicile   

ALFS, Inc.  

Delaware  

ALIC Reinsurance Company  

South Carolina  

Allstate Assignment Company  

Nebraska  

Allstate Assurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Bank  

Federal Jurisdiction  

Allstate County Mutual Insurance Company  

Texas  

Allstate Distributors, L.L.C.  

Delaware  

Allstate Financial Advisors, LLC   

Delaware   

Allstate Financial Capital Partners, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Financial Corporation  

Illinois  

Allstate Financial Services, LLC*  

Delaware  

Allstate Financial , LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Fire and Casualty Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Floridian Indemnity Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Floridian Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Indemnity Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Institutional Advisors, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Insurance Company of Canada  

Canada  

Allstate Insurance Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate International Insurance Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Allstate Investment Management Company   

Delaware   

Allstate Investment Management Limited  

United Kingdom  

Allstate Investments, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Life Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Life Insurance Company of Canada  

Canada  

Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York  

New York  

Allstate Motor Club, Inc.  

Delaware  

Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate New Jersey Property and Casualty Insurance
  Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Non-Insurance Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Allstate North American Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Property and Casualty Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Reinsurance Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Allstate Settlement Corporation  

Nebraska  

Allstate Texas Lloyd s  

Texas  

Allstate Texas Lloyd s, Inc.  

Texas  

American Heritage Life Insurance Company  

Florida  

American Heritage Life Investment Corporation  

Delaware  

* Doing business as LSA Securities in
Pennsylvania  

  1  

American Heritage
  Service Company  

Florida  

Charter National Life
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Concord Heritage Life
  Insurance Company, Inc.  

New Hampshire  

Deerbrook General
  Agency, Inc.  

Texas  

Deerbrook Insurance
  Company  

Illinois  

E.R.J. Insurance
  Group, Inc.   

Florida  

Encompass Floridian
  Indemnity Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Floridian
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Home and Auto
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Indemnity
  Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Independent
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Insurance
  Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Insurance
  Company of America  

Illinois  

Encompass Insurance
  Company of Massachusetts  

Massachusetts  

Encompass Insurance
  Company of New Jersey  

Illinois  

Encompass Property and
  Casualty Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Property and
  Casualty Insurance Company of New Jersey  

Illinois  

First Colonial Insurance
  Company  

Florida  

Intramerica Life Insurance
  Company  

New York  

Ivantage Select
  Agency, Inc.  

Illinois  

Kennett
  Capital, Inc.    

Delaware    

Kennett Capital
  Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Kennett Capital
  Partners, LLC  

Delaware  

Lincoln Benefit Life
  Company  

Nebraska  

Northbrook Indemnity
  Company  

Illinois  

Northbrook
  Services, Inc.  

Delaware  

Northbrook Technology of
  Northern Ireland, Limited  

Northern Ireland  

Pafco Insurance Company  

Canada  

Pembridge
  America, Inc.  

Florida  

Pembridge Insurance
  Company  

Canada  

Roadway Protection Auto
  Club, Inc.  

Delaware  

Sterling Collision
  Centers, Inc.  

Delaware  

Surety Life Insurance
  Company  

Nebraska  

Tech-Cor, LLC  

Delaware  

Doing
business as American Heritage Insurance Service, ERJ Enterprises and ERJ
Financial Services in Florida  

2  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 12
 a2182971zex-23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23     

   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of our reports dated February 26, 2008, relating to the financial
statements and financial statement schedules of The Allstate Corporation and the effectiveness of The Allstate Corporation's internal control over financial reporting (which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change in The Allstate Corporation's method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and accounting for deferred
acquisition costs associated with internal replacements in 2007, and defined pension and other postretirement plans in 2006) appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of The
Allstate Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2007, and to the reference to us under the heading "Experts" in Prospectus, which is part of the registration statements.   

   Registration Statements     

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 a2182971zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

EXHIBIT 31.1     

  I,
Thomas J. Wilson, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for
the registrant and have:

a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

February 27,
2008   

/s/    THOMAS J. WILSON               
Thomas J. Wilson 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 a2182971zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2     

  I,
Danny L. Hale, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

February 27,
2008   

/s/    DANNY L. HALE               
Danny L. Hale 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 15
 a2182971zex-32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

EXHIBIT 32     

   SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS     

          Each of the undersigned hereby certifies that to his knowledge the report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 of
The Allstate Corporation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the
information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of The Allstate Corporation.   

February 27, 2008  
     
  /s/    THOMAS J. WILSON               
Thomas J. Wilson 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/    DANNY L. HALE               
Danny L. Hale 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32>

<EX-99>
 16
 a2182971zex-99.htm
 EXHIBIT 99

Exhibit
99   

NEWS   

FOR
IMMEDIATE RELEASE   

Allstate
Completes Leadership Transition:   

    Liddy Sets Retirement Date, Wilson Named
Chairman-elect   

   Hale, Crockett to Retire; DeVries New SVP of Human Resources   

Northbrook,
Ill.,    February 26, 2008        Completing a leadership transition begun in
fall 2006, The Allstate Corporation (NYSE:ALL) today announced its chairman,
Edward M. Liddy, will retire April 30, 2008 and will be succeeded at that
time by Thomas J. Wilson.  Wilson, 50,
will continue to serve as the corporation s president and chief executive
officer, positions he has held since January 2007.  

Liddy, 62, joined
Allstate in 1994 and was the architect of the initial public offering and
eventual spin-off of the company from Sears, Roebuck and Co. in 1995.  He served as president and chief operating
officer from 1994 to 1998, chairman and chief executive officer from 1999 to
2006 and chairman since January 2007.  

Ed Liddy made an
indelible mark on Allstate,  said Wilson.  Under his leadership, Allstate
helped millions of Americans better protect themselves from life s
uncertainties and prepare for a better retirement, and he did so while
generating strong returns to Allstate s shareholders.  It s been my pleasure to work with Ed and
learn from him.   

The
Allstate Corporation also announced that senior vice president and chief
financial officer Dan Hale plans to retire on March 31.  Hale, 63, has led Allstate s finance function
since early 2003 and has enjoyed a distinguished career in business spanning
more than 40 years.  Allstate has a
search underway for Hale s successor, which includes internal and external
candidates.  Samuel Pilch, 61, group vice
president and controller, will serve as acting chief financial officer effective
March 3, 2008.  Pilch has served as
Allstate s controller for the past 12 years and was previously corporate
treasurer at the Travelers Insurance Company.  

I am grateful to Dan for
the significant contributions he has made to Allstate since his arrival five
years ago,  said Wilson.  Dan strengthened our governance practices, drove the
company s commitment to disciplined capital management, and played a key role
in our success as a member of the senior management team.  He leaves Allstate a stronger enterprise, and
we wish him well in his retirement.   

Commenting on his
retirement, Hale said:  Having the opportunity to finish my career at Allstate,
an outstanding company with a superior leadership team, has been a privilege
and a uniquely rewarding experience.  It
has been very gratifying to have played a role in  

the financial affairs of
a company with such a track record of success, and one that is so
extraordinarily well positioned for the future.   

Also retiring is Joan
Crockett, senior vice president, human resources.  Crockett, 57, led Allstate s HR function for
the past 14 years, capping 35 years of service at the company. Crockett drove a
strategic transformation of Allstate s human resources department that included
introduction of a shared services model and creation of a centralized HR
service center. During her tenure, Allstate has been recognized for its
employment practices by  Working Mother ,  Diversity Inc .,  Fortune  and
other publications.  Crockett s
retirement will be effective on March 31, 2008.  

Joan s leadership has
helped Allstate attract and retain a highly talented and motivated leadership
team, enabling us to outperform our competitors,  Wilson said of Crockett.  Her
considerable contribution to the company is reflected in the quality of our
38,000 employees, a legacy that will continue to help Allstate succeed in the
years to come.   

Replacing Crockett will
be James DeVries, who is joining Allstate from Principal Financial Group where
he served as senior vice president of human resources. DeVries earned degrees
from Loyola University and Northwestern University s Kellogg School of
Management and previously held senior human resources positions at Ameritech
and The Quaker Oats Company.  He will
join Allstate on March 24, 2008.     I am pleased
to welcome Jim to Allstate and am confident he will be a valuable addition to
our senior leadership team,  Wilson said.  

Our
people are the key to our success,  Wilson concluded.  As much as any other
factor, it is the strength of this leadership team and the talent of our
employees that will enable us to achieve our goal of reinventing protection and
retirement for the consumer.   

The
Allstate Corporation (NYSE: ALL) is the nation s largest publicly held personal
lines insurer. Widely known through the  You re In Good Hands With Allstate    
slogan, Allstate helps individuals in approximately 17 million households
protect what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow through
approximately 14,900 exclusive agencies and financial representatives in the
U.S. and Canada. Customers can access Allstate products and services such as
auto insurance and homeowners insurance through Allstate agencies, or in select
states at allstate.com and 1-800 Allstate   . Encompass   
and Deerbrook    Insurance brand property and casualty products are
sold exclusively through independent agents. The Allstate Financial Group
provides life insurance, supplemental accident and health insurance, annuity,
banking and retirement products designed for individual, institutional and
worksite customers that are distributed through Allstate agencies, independent
agencies, financial institutions and broker-dealers.  

# # #  

2  

</EX-99>

