<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090226_10-K_edgar_data_899051_0001047469-09-001878_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6027292</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1014394</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5972</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3807735</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>218</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>10</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-09-001878.hdr.sgml : 20090226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090226153145
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-09-001878
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALLSTATE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000899051
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				363871531
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11840
		FILM NUMBER:		09637581

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8474025000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SSXTDmuuIwinCQSyDP0A/UPUZoLGaK+Fasi9DT6jGA44mxwYczQJBFqRVSKVw7KO
 LODRXnQQPpXHzXxmQgIrOQ==

 0001047469-09-001878.txt : 20090226

10-K
 1
 a2189233z10-k.htm
 10-K

UNITED STATES       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549     

   FORM 10-K     

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 402-5000   

            Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class

Name of each exchange 
on which Registered

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
     
   New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   

  Yes                            No       

            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   

  Yes                            No    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days.   

  Yes                            No    

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
   Accelerated filer      
     
   Non-accelerated filer     
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
     
   Smaller reporting company      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   

  Yes                            No    

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the last
business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, June 30, 2008, was approximately $24.81 billion.   

            As
of January 31, 2009, the registrant had 536,041,789 shares of common stock outstanding.   

   Documents Incorporated By Reference     

            Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference as follows:   

            Part III
of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders meeting
to be held on May 19, 2009 (the "Proxy Statement") to be filed not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   

TABLE OF CONTENTS     

Page    

PART I  

Item 1.  
     
   Business  

1  

Goal  

1  

Allstate Protection Segment  

1  

Allstate Financial Segment  

3  

Other Business Segments  

5  

Reserve for Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense  

5  

Regulation  

10  

Internet Website  

12  

Other Information about Allstate  

13  

Executive Officers  

13  

Item 1A.  
     
   Risk Factors  

14  

Item 1B.  
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments  

22  

Item 2.  
     
   Properties  

22  

Item 3.  
     
   Legal Proceedings  

22  

Item 4.  
     
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

22  

PART II  

Item 5.  
     
   Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholders Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

23  

Item 6.  
     
   Selected Financial Data  

25  

Item 7.  
     
   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

26  

Item 7A.  
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

139  

Item 8.  
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  

139  

Item 9.  
     
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

221  

Item 9A.  
     
   Controls and Procedures  

221  

Item 9B.  
     
   Other Information  

221  

PART III  

Item 10.  
     
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

222  

Item 11.  
     
   Executive Compensation  

222  

Item 12.  
     
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  

222  

Item 13.  
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  

222  

Item 14.  
     
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services  

222  

PART IV  

Item 15.  
     
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  

223  

Signatures  

226  

Financial Statement Schedules  

S-1  

Part I     

    Item 1.    Business     

          The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992 to serve as the holding
company for Allstate Insurance Company. Its business is conducted principally through Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company and their affiliates (collectively, including The
Allstate Corporation, "Allstate"). Allstate is primarily engaged in the personal property and casualty insurance business and the life insurance, retirement and investment products business. It
conducts its business primarily in the United States.   

          The
Allstate Corporation is the largest publicly held personal lines insurer in the United States. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate " slogan,
Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help individuals in approximately 17 million households protect what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Customers can access
Allstate products and services such as auto insurance and homeowners insurance through more than 14,000 exclusive Allstate agencies and financial representatives in the United States and Canada.
Allstate is the 2nd largest personal property and casualty insurer in the United States on the basis of 2007 statutory direct premiums earned. In addition, according to A.M. Best, it is
the nation's 16th largest issuer of life insurance business on the basis of 2007 ordinary life insurance in force and 17th largest on the basis of 2007 statutory admitted assets.   

          Allstate
has four business segments:   

Allstate Protection  

Discontinued Lines and Coverages  

Allstate Financial  

Corporate and Other  

To
achieve its goals in 2009, Allstate is focused on three priorities: protect Allstate's financial strength, build customer loyalty, and continue reinventing protection and retirement
for the consumer. In addition, we will continue to monitor market conditions and will consider business start-ups, acquisitions and alliances that would forward our business objectives and
represent prudent uses of corporate capital.   

          In
this annual report on Form 10-K, we occasionally refer to statutory financial information. All domestic United States insurance companies are required to prepare
statutory-basis financial statements. As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors that are not subject to the requirement to
prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). We frequently use industry publications containing statutory
financial information to assess our competitive position.   

    ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT     

    Products and Distribution     

          Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for about 93% of Allstate's 2008 consolidated insurance premiums and contract charges. In
this segment, we sell principally private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, primarily through agencies. These products are marketed under the Allstate, Encompass  and
Deerbrook  brand names. The Allstate Protection segment also includes a separate organization called Emerging Businesses which is comprised of Small Business ("Commercial"), Consumer
Household ("Specialty Product Lines"), Allstate Dealer Services ("Allstate Credit Division") and Allstate Roadside Service ("Allstate Motor Club and Partnership Marketing Group"). We also participate
in the involuntary or shared private passenger auto insurance business in order to maintain our licenses to do business in many states. In some states, Allstate exclusive agencies offer
non-proprietary property insurance products.   

          Allstate
brand auto and homeowners insurance products are sold primarily through Allstate exclusive agencies and, to a lesser extent, through independent agencies in areas not served by
exclusive agencies. Encompass brand auto and homeowners insurance products as well as Deerbrook brand auto insurance products are sold through independent agencies.   

          In
many states, consumers also can purchase certain Allstate brand personal insurance products and obtain service through our Customer Information Centers and the internet.   

          Our
broad-based network of approximately 12,800 Allstate exclusive agencies in approximately 12,000 locations in the U.S. produced approximately 87% of the Allstate Protection segment's
written premiums in 2008. The rest was generated primarily by approximately 8,800 independent agencies. We are among the six largest providers of personal property and casualty insurance products
through independent agencies in the United States, based on statutory written premium information provided by A.M. Best for 2007.   

  1  

Competition     

          The markets for personal private passenger auto and homeowners insurance are highly competitive. The following charts provide the
market shares of our principal competitors in the U.S. by direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the most recent date such competitive information is available) according
to A.M. Best.   

In
the personal property and casualty insurance market, we compete principally on the basis of the recognition of our brands, the scope of our distribution system, price, the breadth of
our product offerings, product features,
customer service, claim handling, and use of technology. In addition, our proprietary database of underwriting and pricing experience enables Allstate to use pricing sophistication to more accurately
price risks and to cross sell products within our customer base.   

          Pricing
sophistication and related underwriting and marketing programs use a number of risk evaluation factors. For auto insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to
vehicle make, model and year; driver age and marital status; territory; years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier, prior liability limits, prior lapse in coverage; and insurance
scoring based on credit report information. For property insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to amount of insurance purchased; geographic location of the property; loss history;
age and construction characteristics of the property; and insurance scoring based on credit report information.   

          Our
primary focus in using pricing sophistication methods has been on acquiring and retaining new business. The aim has been to enhance Allstate's competitive position with respect to
"high lifetime value" market segments while maintaining or improving profitability. "Lifetime value" is the discounted value of a customer's future cash flow stream. To estimate a customer's lifetime
value score, we analyze characteristics about the customer (for example, age, marital status and driving record) and characteristics about the product the customer has purchased (for example:
coverages, limits, and descriptors of the asset insured) on the basis of historic data patterns and trends. Because future loss and retention patterns of customers vary significantly, the distribution
of lifetime values for a large group of customers will vary from very negative to very positive. "High lifetime value" generally refers to customers who potentially present more favorable prospects
for profitability over the course of their relationships with us.   

          Allstate 
Your Choice Auto insurance allows qualified customers to choose from a variety of optional auto insurance packages at various prices. We believe that
Allstate  Your Choice Auto differentiates Allstate from its competitors and allows for increased growth and increased retention. Allstate  Your Choice Home allows qualified
customers to choose from options such as a claim-free bonus and greater ability to tailor their own home insurance protection coverage. Allstate Blue SM  is our
non-standard auto insurance product which offers features such as a loyalty bonus and roadside assistance coverage.   

    Geographic Markets     

          The principal geographic markets for our auto, homeowners and other personal property and casualty products are in the United States.
Through various subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of personal property and casualty insurance products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. We also sell
personal property and casualty insurance products in Canada through a distribution system similar to that used in the United States.   

  2  

The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of premiums earned for the Allstate Protection segment for the year ended December 31, 2008,
based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the premiums earned for the segment.   

We
continue to take actions to support earning an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the variability in our earnings, while providing quality
protection to our customers. Accordingly, we expect to continue to adjust underwriting practices with respect to our property business in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure.   

    Additional Information     

          Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Protection segment is
contained in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 18 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to our property-
liability operations, which includes our Allstate Protection segment and our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

          Information
regarding the amount of premium earned for Allstate Protection segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II,
Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, page 47, in the table regarding premiums earned by brand. That table is
incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

    ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT     

    Products and Distribution     

          Our Allstate Financial segment provides life insurance, retirement and investment products, and voluntary accident and health insurance
products to individual and institutional customers. Our principal individual products are fixed annuities including deferred, immediate and indexed; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life
insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. We also distribute variable annuities through our bank distribution partners, however this product is fully reinsured with an unaffiliated
entity. Our principal institutional product is funding agreements backing medium-term notes. Banking products and services are also offered to customers through the Allstate Bank. The
table on page 4 lists our major distribution channels for this segment, with the associated products and targeted customers.   

          As
the table indicates, we sell Allstate Financial products to individuals through multiple intermediary distribution channels, including Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive
financial specialists, independent agents, banks, broker-dealers, and specialized structured settlement brokers. We have distribution relationships with over 60% of the 25 largest banks, a number of
regional brokerage firms and many independent broker-dealers. We sell products through independent agents affiliated with approximately 160 master brokerage agencies. Independent workplace enrolling
agents and Allstate exclusive agencies also sell our voluntary accident and health insurance products primarily to employees of unaffiliated businesses. We sell funding agreements to unaffiliated
trusts used to back medium-term notes.   

  3  

Allstate Financial Distribution Channels, Products and Target Customers     

Distribution Channel    
     
   Proprietary Products    
     
   Target Customers    

Allstate exclusive agencies     (Allstate Exclusive Agents and 
Allstate Exclusive Financial Specialists)  
     
  Term life insurance 
Interest-sensitive life insurance 
Variable life insurance 
Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and market 
value adjusted "MVA") 
Immediate fixed annuities 
Bank products 
(Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, savings accounts, checking accounts and Allstate Agency loans) 
Workplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance (4)   
     
  Middle market consumers (1)  with 
retirement and family 
financial protection needs  

Independent agents    
(through master 
brokerage agencies)  
      
   Term life insurance 
Interest-sensitive life insurance 
Variable life insurance 
Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and MVA) 
Immediate fixed annuities  
      
   Mass market (2)  
and mass affluent consumers (3)  with retirement and financial protection needs  

Independent agents    
(as workplace enrolling 
agents)  
      
   Workplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance (4)   
      
   Middle market consumers with family financial protection needs employed by small, medium, and large size firms  

Banks   
      
   Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and MVA) 
Single premium fixed life insurance 
Variable annuities fully reinsured with an unaffiliated entity  
      
   Middle market consumers with retirement needs  

Broker-dealers   
      
   Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and MVA) 
Single premium variable life insurance  
      
   Mass market and mass affluent consumers with retirement needs  

Structured settlement 
annuity brokers   
      
   Structured settlement annuities  
      
   Typically used to fund or annuitize large claims or litigation settlements  

Broker-dealers    
(Funding agreements)  
      
   Funding agreements backing medium-term notes  
      
   Institutional and individual investors  

(1)    Consumers
with $50,000-$125,000 in household income
      (2)    Consumers
with $50,000-$75,000 in household income
      (3)    Consumers
with $75,000-$125,000 in household income
      (4)    Interest-sensitive
and term life insurance; disability income insurance; cancer, accident, critical illness and heart/stroke insurance; hospital indemnity;
limited benefit medical insurance; and dental insurance    

          Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists also sell the following non-proprietary products in addition to
Allstate Financial products: mutual funds, variable annuities, disability insurance and long-term care insurance.   

    Competition     

          We compete on a wide variety of factors, including the scope of our distribution systems, the type of our product offerings, the
recognition of our brands, our financial strength and ratings, our differentiated product features and prices, and the level of customer service that we provide. With regard to funding agreements, we
compete principally on the basis of our financial strength and ratings.   

          The
market for life insurance, retirement and investment products continues to be highly fragmented and competitive. As of December 31, 2008, there were approximately 500 groups
of life insurance companies in the United States, most of which offered one or more similar products. According to A.M. Best, as of December 31,   

  4  

2007,
the Allstate Financial segment is the nation's 16 th  largest issuer of life insurance and related business on the basis of 2007 ordinary life insurance in force and
17 th  largest on the basis of 2007 statutory admitted assets. In addition, because many of these products include a savings or investment component, our competition includes
domestic and foreign securities firms, investment advisors, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Competitive pressure continues to grow due to several factors, including cross
marketing alliances between unaffiliated businesses, as well as consolidation activity in the financial services industry.   

Geographic Markets     

          We sell life insurance, retirement and investment, and voluntary accident and health insurance products throughout the United States.
Through subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of these products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. We also sell funding
agreements in the United States.   

          The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment for the year ended
December 31, 2008, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments.   

Approximately
99 percent of the statutory premiums and annuity considerations generated in Delaware represent deposits received in connection with funding agreements sold to
trusts domiciled in Delaware. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the statutory premiums and annuity considerations.   

    Additional Information     

          Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Financial segment is
contained in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 18 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to the Allstate
Financial segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

          Information
regarding premiums and contract charges for Allstate Financial segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II,
Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, page 74, in the table that summarizes premiums and contract charges by product. That table is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENTS     

          Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.
Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information regarding the revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our Corporate and Other segment
over the last three years.   

          Our
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for certain commercial and other business in
run-off. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises in this segment. Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information
for the last three years regarding revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our property-liability operations, which includes both our Allstate Protection segment and
our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

    RESERVE FOR PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE     

          The following information regarding reserves applies to all of our property-liability operations, encompassing both the Allstate
Protection segment and the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

  5  

Reconciliation of Claims Reserves     

          The following tables are summary reconciliations of the beginning and ending property-liability insurance claims and claims expense
reserves, displayed individually for each of the last three years. The first table presents reserves on a gross (before reinsurance) basis. The end of year gross reserve balances are reflected in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. The second table presents reserves on a net (after reinsurance) basis. The total net property-liability insurance claims and claims expense amounts are
reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

(1)    Reserves
for claims and claims expense are net of reinsurance of $2.27 billion, $2.21 billion and $2.26 billion at December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.    
  6  

The year-end 2008 gross reserves of $19.46 billion for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense, as determined
under GAAP, were $3.34 billion more than the net reserve balance of $16.12 billion recorded on the basis of statutory accounting practices for reports provided to state regulatory
authorities. The principal differences are reinsurance recoverables from third parties totaling $2.27 billion that reduce reserves for statutory reporting but are recorded as assets for GAAP
reporting, and a liability for the reserves of the Canadian subsidiaries for $0.84 billion. Remaining differences are due to variations in requirements between GAAP and statutory reporting.   

As
the tables above illustrate, Allstate's net reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense at the end of 2007 increased in 2008 by $170 million, compared to
reestimates of the gross reserves of an increase of $303 million. Net reserve reestimates in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were more favorable than the gross reserve reestimates due to reinsurance
cessions.   

    Loss Reserve Reestimates     

          The following Loss Reserve Reestimates table illustrates the change over time of the net reserves established for property-liability
insurance claims and claims expense at the end of the last eleven calendar years. The first section shows the reserves as originally reported at the end of the stated year. The second section, reading
down, shows the cumulative amounts paid as of the end of successive years with respect to that reserve liability. The third section, reading down, shows retroactive reestimates of the original
recorded
reserve as of the end of each successive year which is the result of Allstate's expanded awareness of additional facts and circumstances that pertain to the unsettled claims. The last section compares
the latest reestimated reserve to the reserve originally established, and indicates whether the original reserve was adequate to cover the estimated costs of unsettled claims. The table also presents
the gross reestimated liability as of the end of the latest reestimation period, with separate disclosure of the related reestimated reinsurance recoverable. The Loss Reserve Reestimates table is
cumulative and, therefore, ending balances should not be added since the amount at the end of each calendar year includes activity for both the current and prior years. Unfavorable reserve reestimates
are shown in this table in parentheses.   

  7  

Loss Reserve Reestimates     

Amount of Reestimates for Each Segment     

As shown in the above table, the subsequent cumulative increase in the net reserves established from December 31, 1998 to
December 31, 2003 reflects additions to reserves in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages Segment, primarily for asbestos and environmental liabilities, which offset the effects of favorable
severity trends experienced by Allstate Protection, as discussed more fully below.   

  8  

The
following table is derived from the Loss Reserve Reestimates table and summarizes the effect of reserve reestimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations for the
ten-year period ended December 31, 2008. The total of each column details the amount of reserve reestimates made in the indicated calendar year and shows the accident years to which
the reestimates are applicable. The amounts in the total accident year column on the far right represent the cumulative reserve reestimates for the indicated accident year(s). Favorable reserve
reestimates are shown in this table in parentheses.   

    Effect of Net Reserve Reestimates on 
Calendar Year Operations     

In 2008, unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection catastrophe losses that were more than anticipated
in previous estimates.   

          In
2007, favorable prior year reserve estimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto severity development that was less than what was anticipated in previous estimates.
Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to environmental liabilities reported by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages
segment.   

          In
2006, 2005 and 2004, favorable prior year reserve estimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto injury severity and late reported loss development that was less than what
was anticipated in previous reserve estimates and in 2006, also by catastrophe losses that were less than anticipated in previous estimates. Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more
than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to asbestos liabilities reported by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

          In
2003, unfavorable prior year reserve estimates were due to increases primarily related to asbestos and other discontinued lines, partially offset by favorable Allstate Protection auto
injury severity and late reported loss development that was better than previous estimates.   

          In
2002, unfavorable prior year reserve estimates were due to claim severity and late reported losses for Allstate Protection that were greater than what was anticipated in previous
reserve estimates and to increased estimates of losses primarily related to asbestos and environmental liabilities in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

          In
2001, unfavorable prior year reserve estimates were due to greater volume of late reported weather related losses than expected from the end of the year 2000 which were reported in
the year 2001, additional incurred losses on the 1994 Northridge earthquake, adverse results of class action and other litigation, upward reestimates of property losses and upward reestimates of
losses in the Encompass and Canadian businesses.   

          Favorable
calendar year reserve reestimates in 1999 and 2000 were the result of favorable severity trends in each year for Allstate Protection, which more than offset adverse reestimates
in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment, primarily for asbestos and environmental liabilities, virtually all of which relates to 1984 and prior years. The favorable severity trend during this
period was primarily the result of favorable injury severity trends, as compared to our anticipated trends. Favorable injury severity trends were largely due to more moderate medical cost inflation
and the mitigating effects of our loss management programs.   

          For
additional information regarding reserves, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Property-Liability Claims and Claims
Expense Reserves."   

  9  

REGULATION     

          Allstate is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level. The method, extent and substance of such regulation varies
by state but generally has its source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that delegate regulatory authority to a state regulatory
agency. In general, such regulation is intended for the protection of those who purchase or use insurance products issued by our subsidiaries, not the holders of securities issued by The Allstate
Corporation. These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters including insurance company licensing and examination, agent and adjuster licensing, price
setting, trade practices, policy forms, accounting methods, the nature and amount of investments, claims practices, participation in shared markets and guaranty funds, reserve adequacy, insurer
solvency, transactions with affiliates, the payment of dividends, and underwriting standards. Some of these matters are discussed in more detail below. For a discussion of statutory financial
information, see Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of regulatory contingencies, see Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Notes 13 and
15 are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

          In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Legislation that would provide for federal chartering of insurance companies has been
proposed. In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation. We cannot predict whether any specific state or
federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the regulation of the insurance business or what effect any such measures would have on Allstate.   

            Agent and Broker Compensation.       In recent years, several states considered new legislation or regulations regarding the compensation of
agents and
brokers by insurance companies. The proposals ranged in nature from new disclosure requirements to new duties on insurance agents and brokers in dealing with customers. New disclosure requirements
have been imposed in certain circumstances upon some agents and brokers in several states.   

            Limitations on Dividends By Insurance Subsidiaries.       As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, The
Allstate Corporation
relies on dividends from Allstate Insurance Company as one of the principal sources of cash to pay dividends and to meet its obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on debt.
Allstate Insurance Company is regulated as an insurance company in Illinois and its ability to pay dividends is restricted by Illinois law. For additional information regarding those restrictions, see
Part II, Item 5 of this report. The laws of the other jurisdictions that generally govern our other insurance subsidiaries contain similar limitations on the payment of dividends and in
some jurisdictions the laws may be more restrictive.   

            Insurance Holding Company Regulation.       The Allstate Corporation and Allstate Insurance Company are insurance holding companies subject
to regulation
in the jurisdictions in which their insurance subsidiaries do business. In
the U.S., these subsidiaries are organized under the insurance codes of Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York and Texas, and some of these subsidiaries are considered
commercially domiciled in California and Utah. Generally, the insurance codes in these states provide that the acquisition or change of "control" of a domestic or commercially domiciled insurer or of
any person that controls such an insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the relevant insurance regulator. In general, a presumption of "control" arises from the ownership,
control, possession with the power to vote, or possession of proxies with respect to, ten percent or more of the voting securities of an insurer or of a person that controls an insurer. In addition,
certain state insurance laws require pre-acquisition notification to state agencies of a change in control with respect to a non-domestic insurance company licensed to do
business in that state. While such pre-acquisition notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, such statutes do authorize certain remedies,
including the issuance of a cease and desist order with respect to the non-domestic insurer if certain conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. Thus, any transaction involving
the acquisition of ten percent or more of The Allstate Corporation's common stock would generally require prior approval by the state insurance departments in California, Illinois, Massachusetts,
Nebraska, New Hampshire, New York, Texas, and Utah. The prior approval of the Florida insurance department would be necessary for the acquisition of five percent or more. Moreover, notification would
be required in those other states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and where the insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business. Such approval
requirements may deter, delay or prevent certain transactions affecting the ownership of The Allstate Corporation's common stock.   

Price Regulation.       Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file price schedules,
policy or coverage
forms, and other information with the state's regulatory authority. In many cases, such price schedules, policy forms or both must be approved prior to use. While they vary from state to state, the
objectives of the pricing laws are generally the same: a price cannot be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory.   

  10  

The
speed with which an insurer can change prices in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on whether the pricing laws are (i) prior
approval, (ii) file-and-use, or (iii) use-and-file laws. In states having prior approval laws, the regulator must approve a price before
the insurer may use it. In states having file-and-use laws, the insurer does not have to wait for the regulator's approval to use a price, but the price must be filed with the
regulatory authority prior to being used. A use-and-file law requires an insurer to file prices within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them.
Approximately one half of the states, including California and New York, have prior approval laws. Under all three types of pricing laws, the regulator has the authority to disapprove a price
subsequent to its filing.   

          An
insurer's ability to adjust its prices in response to competition or to increasing costs is often dependent on an insurer's ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its pricing or
proposed pricing meets the requirements of the pricing laws. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's discretion in selecting the business that it wants to underwrite, an insurer can
manage its risk of loss by charging a price that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's ability to charge a price that
reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more selective in the type of business it underwrites. When a state significantly restricts
both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.   

          Changes
in Allstate's claim settlement process may require Allstate to actuarially adjust loss information used in its pricing process. Some state insurance regulatory authorities may
not approve price increases that give full effect to these adjustments.   

          From
time to time, the private passenger auto insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators and special interest groups to reduce, freeze or set prices at
levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs and expenses. Homeowners insurance comes under similar pressure, particularly as regulators in states subject to high levels of
catastrophe losses struggle to identify an acceptable methodology to price for catastrophe exposure. We expect this kind of pressure to persist. In addition, our use of insurance scoring based on
credit report information for underwriting and pricing has been the subject of challenges and investigations by regulators, legislators and special interest groups. The result could be legislation or
regulation that adversely affects the profitability of the Allstate Protection segment. We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding
pricing.   

           Involuntary Markets.       As a condition of maintaining our licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, we
are required
to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable
to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to our results of operations.   

Guaranty Funds.       Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits,
in order to
cover certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies.   

            National Flood Insurance Program.       We voluntarily participate as a Write Your Own ("WYO") carrier in the National Flood Insurance
Program ("NFIP").
The NFIP is administered and regulated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency ("FEMA"). We operate as a fiscal agent of the federal government in the selling and administering of the Standard
Flood Insurance Policy ("SFIP"). This involves the collection of premiums belonging to the federal government and the paying of covered claims by directly drawing on funds of the United States
Treasury. We receive expense allowances from NFIP for underwriting administration, claims management, commission and adjuster fees.   

            Investment Regulation.       Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that require investment portfolio diversification and that
limit the
amount of investment in certain categories. Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of non-conforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of
measuring statutory surplus. Further, in some instances, these rules require divestiture of non-conforming investments.   

Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies.       Most states regulate an insurer's ability to exit a market. For example,

states limit, to varying degrees, an insurer's ability to cancel and non-renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the
state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department.
Regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval requirements may restrict an insurer's ability to exit unprofitable markets.   

            Variable Life Insurance, Variable Annuities and Registered Fixed Annuities.       The sale and administration of variable life insurance,
variable
annuities and registered fixed annuities with market value adjustment features are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at the federal and state level, including regulation and supervision by the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA").   

  11  

Broker-Dealers, Investment Advisors and Investment Companies.       The Allstate entities that operate as broker-dealers, registered
investment advisors
and investment companies are subject to regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA and/or, in some cases, state securities administrators.   

            Banking.       The Allstate Corporation is a diversified savings and loan holding company for Allstate Bank, a federal stock savings bank and
a member of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The principal supervisory authority for the diversified savings and loan holding company activities and the bank is the Office of Thrift
Supervision. The bank is also subject to the authority of the FDIC and other federal financial regulators implementing various laws applicable to banking.   

Privacy Regulation.       Federal law and the laws of some states require financial institutions to protect the security and confidentiality
of customer
information and to notify customers about their policies and practices relating to collection and disclosure of customer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and
confidentiality of that information. Federal law and the laws of some states also regulate disclosures of customer information. Congress, state legislatures and regulatory authorities are expected to
consider additional regulation relating to privacy and other aspects of customer information.   

Asbestos.       Congress has considered legislation to address asbestos claims and litigation in the past, but unified support among various
defendant and
insurer groups considered essential to any possible reform has been lacking. We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative measures regarding asbestos.   

            Environmental.       Environmental pollution and clean-up of polluted waste sites is the subject of both federal and state regulation. The
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("Superfund") and comparable state statutes ("mini-Superfund") govern the clean-up and restoration
of waste sites by Potentially Responsible Parties ("PRPs"). Superfund and the
mini-Superfunds (Environmental Clean-up Laws or "ECLs") establish a mechanism to assign liability to PRPs or to fund the clean-up of waste sites if PRPs fail to do
so. The extent of liability to be allocated to a PRP is dependent on a variety of factors. By some estimates, there are thousands of potential waste sites subject to clean-up, but the
exact number is unknown. The extent of clean-up necessary and the process of assigning liability remain in dispute. The insurance industry is involved in extensive litigation regarding
coverage issues arising out of the clean-up of waste sites by insured PRPs and the insured parties' alleged liability to third parties responsible for the clean-up. The
insurance industry, including Allstate, has disputed and is disputing many such claims. Key coverage issues include whether Superfund response, investigation and clean-up costs are
considered damages under the policies; trigger of coverage; the applicability of several types of pollution exclusions; proper notice of claims; whether administrative liability triggers the duty to
defend; appropriate allocation of liability among triggered insurers; and whether the liability in question falls within the definition of an "occurrence." Identical coverage issues exist for
clean-up and waste sites not covered under Superfund. To date, courts have been inconsistent in their rulings on these issues. Allstate's exposure to liability with regard to its insureds
that have been, or may be, named as PRPs is uncertain. While comprehensive Superfund reform proposals have been introduced in Congress, only modest reform measures have been enacted.   

INTERNET WEBSITE     

          Our Internet website address is Allstate.com. The Allstate Corporation's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are available through our Internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Succession Committee, and Nominating and Governance
Committee are available on our website and in print to any stockholder who requests copies by contacting Investor Relations, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois
60062-6127, 1-800-416-8803.   

  12  

OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT ALLSTATE     

          As of December 31, 2008, Allstate had approximately 38,000 full-time employees and 900 part-time
employees.   

          Information
regarding revenues generated outside of the United States is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference to Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

          Allstate's
four business segments use shared services, including human resources, investment, finance, information technology and legal services, provided by Allstate Insurance Company
and other affiliates.   

          Although
the insurance business generally is not seasonal, claims and claims expense for the Allstate Protection segment tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.   

          "Allstate"
is one of the most recognized brand names in the United States. We use the names "Allstate," "Encompass," "Deerbrook" and "Lincoln Benefit Life" extensively in our business,
along with related logos and slogans, such as "Good Hands." Our rights in the United States to these names, logos and slogans continue so long as we continue to use them in commerce. Most of these
service marks are the subject of renewable U.S. and/or foreign service mark registrations. We believe that these service marks are important to our business and we intend to maintain our rights to
them through continued use.   

    Executive Officers     

          The following table sets forth the names of our executive officers, their ages as of February 1, 2009, their positions, and the
dates of their first election as officers. "AIC" refers to Allstate Insurance Company.   

Name

Age    
     
   Position/Offices    
     
   Date First 
Elected 
Officer    

Thomas J. Wilson  

51  
     
  Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation; also Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of AIC.  

1995  

Catherine S. Brune  

55  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Chief Information Officer).  

1999  

Don Civgin  

47  
     
  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of AIC.  

2008  

Frederick F. Cripe  

51  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC.  

2000  

James D. DeVries  

45  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Human Resources).  

2008  

Judith P. Greffin  

48  
     
  Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of AIC.  

2002  

Michele C. Mayes  

59  
     
  Vice President and General Counsel of The Allstate Corporation; Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of AIC (Chief Legal Officer).  

2007  

Samuel H. Pilch  

62  
     
  Controller of The Allstate Corporation; Group Vice President and Controller of AIC.  

1995  

Joseph J. Richardson  

48  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Allstate Protection Distribution).  

1999  

Michael J. Roche  

57  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Claims).  

2003  

George E. Ruebenson  

60  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC; President of Allstate Protection and Interim President of Allstate Financial.  

1990  

Steven P. Sorenson  

44  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Allstate Protection Product Operations).  

2000  

Joan H. Walker  

61  
     
  Senior Vice President of AIC (Corporate Relations and Interim Chief Marketing Officer).  

2005  

Each
of the officers named above may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the board of directors of the relevant company.   

          With
the exception of Mr. Civgin, Mr. DeVries, Ms. Mayes and Ms. Walker, these officers have held the listed positions for at least the last five years or
have served Allstate in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years.   

          Prior
to joining Allstate in 2008, Mr. Civgin was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of OfficeMax, Incorporated and served in that position since 2005. From 2002
to 2005, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of General Binding Corporation.   

  13  

Prior to joining Allstate in 2008, Mr. DeVries served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Principal Financial Group since 2000.   

          Prior
to joining Allstate in 2007, Ms. Mayes served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes since 2003 and Vice President, Assistant Secretary and Counsel of
Colgate-Palmolive Company from 2001 to 2003.   

          Prior
to joining Allstate in 2005, Ms. Walker served as Executive Vice President of Marketing and Communications at Qwest Communications International, Inc. from 2002 to
2005 and as Senior Vice President of Global Public Affairs at Pharmacia Corporation from 1999 to 2001.    

    Item 1A.    Risk Factors     

          This document contains "forward-looking statements" that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are
subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume no obligation to update any
forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.   

These
forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "seeks," "expects," "will," "should,"
"anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "believes," "likely," "targets" and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe
exposure management, product development, investment results, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on
reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual
results could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements.   

In
addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer and a provider of other
financial services. These risks constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they
identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and historical trends. These cautionary statements are not
exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or in materials incorporated therein by
reference.   

    Risks Relating to the Property-Liability business     

    As a property and casualty insurer, we may face significant losses from catastrophes and severe weather events     

          Because of the exposure of our property and casualty business to catastrophic events, our operating results and financial condition may
vary significantly from one period to the next. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes,
tropical storms and certain types of terrorism. In 2008 catastrophe losses were $3.34 billion and included estimates of losses for Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, among other events. We may continue
to incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of those experienced in prior years, those that management projects would be incurred based on hurricane and earthquake losses
which have a one percent probability of occurring on an annual aggregate countrywide basis, those that external modeling firms estimate would be incurred based on other levels of probability, the
average expected level used in pricing, and our current reinsurance coverage limits. Despite our catastrophe management programs, we are exposed to catastrophes that could have a material adverse
effect on operating results and financial condition. For example, our historical catastrophe experience includes losses relating to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.6 billion, the
Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion and Hurricane Andrew in 1992 totaling $2.3 billion. We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority, and
various state-created catastrophe insurance facilities, and to losses that could surpass the capitalization of these facilities. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple
catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength ratings.   

          In
addition, we are subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely
unpredictable. There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur.   

    The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to catastrophe losses     

Along with others in the industry, we use models developed by third party vendors in assessing our property exposure to catastrophe
losses that assume various conditions and probability scenarios. Such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe models,
which have been evolving since the early 1990s, use historical information about hurricanes and earthquakes and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. While we use
this information in connection with our   

  14  

pricing
and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. These limitations are evident in significant variations in
estimates between models and modelers, material increases and decreases in model results due to changes and refinements of the underlying data elements, assumptions which lead to questionable
predictive capability, and actual event conditions that have not been well understood previously and not incorporated into the models. In addition, the models are not necessarily reflective of actual
demand surge, loss adjustment expenses and the occurrence of mold losses, which are subject to wide variation by event or location.   

Impacts of catastrophes and our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth     

          Due to our catastrophe risk management efforts, our short-term growth has been negatively impacted and may continue to be
negatively impacted if we take further actions. Homeowners premium growth rates and retention could be more adversely impacted than we expect by adjustments to our business structure, size and
underwriting practices in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure. In addition, due to the diminished potential for cross-selling opportunities, new business growth in our auto lines could
be lower than expected.   

    Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of claims may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition     

Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment. Changes in bodily
injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation. Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto
repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices. Changes in homeowner's claim severity are driven by inflation in the construction industry, in building materials and in home furnishings and by
other economic and environmental factors, including increased demand for services and supplies in areas affected by catastrophes. However, changes in the level of the severity of claims are not
limited to the effects of inflation and demand surge in these various sectors of the economy. Increases in claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict.
Examples of such events include a decision in 2001 by the Georgia Supreme Court that diminished value coverage was included in auto policies under Georgia law and the emergence of
mold-related homeowners losses in the state of Texas during 2002. Although we pursue various loss management initiatives in the Allstate Protection segment in order to mitigate future
increases
in claim severity, there can be no assurances that these initiatives will successfully identify or reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity.   

          Our
Allstate Protection segment may experience declines in claim frequency from time to time. The short-term level of claim frequency we experience may vary from period to
period and may not be sustainable over the longer term. A spike in gas prices and a significant decline in miles driven, both of which occurred in 2008, are examples of factors leading to a
short-term frequency change. A significant long-term increase in claim frequency could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

    Actual claims incurred may exceed current reserves established for claims and may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition     

          Recorded claim reserves in the Property-Liability business are based on our best estimates of losses, both reported and incurred but
not reported ("IBNR"), after considering known facts and interpretations of circumstances. Internal factors are considered including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical
trends involving claim payment patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix, and contractual terms. External factors are also considered which include but are not
limited to law changes, court decisions, changes to regulatory requirements and economic conditions. Because reserves are estimates of the unpaid portion of losses that have occurred, including IBNR
losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded
reserves and such variance may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.   

    Predicting claim expense relating to asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines is inherently uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on our operating
results and financial condition     

          The process of estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines liabilities is complicated by complex legal issues
concerning, among other things, the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are, or were ever intended to be covered; and whether losses could be recoverable
through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Asbestos-related bankruptcies and other asbestos litigation are complex, lengthy proceedings that involve
substantial uncertainty for insurers. Actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines net loss reserves may prove to be inadequate indicators
of the extent of probable loss. Ultimate net losses from these discontinued lines could materially exceed established loss reserves and expected recoveries and have a material adverse effect on our
operating results and financial condition.   

  15  

Regulation limiting rate increases and requiring us to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements may decrease our profitability     

          From time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may
not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. For example, if Allstate Protection's loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may impose rate
rollbacks, require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, or resist or delay our efforts to raise rates even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory
resistance to rate increases. Such resistance affects our ability, in all product lines, to obtain approval for rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and
returns on equity. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost.   

In
addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans,
reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise
charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity, or as the facilities
recognize a financial deficit, they may in turn have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations of many
states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain
states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the
state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.   

    The potential benefits of implementing our sophisticated risk segmentation process may not be fully realized     

          We believe that pricing sophistication and underwriting (including Strategic Risk Management which, in some situations, considers
information that is obtained from credit reports among other factors) has allowed us to be more competitive and operate more profitably. However, because many of our competitors have adopted
underwriting criteria and sophisticated pricing models similar to those we use and because other competitors may follow suit, our competitive advantage could decline or be lost. Further, the use of
insurance scoring from information that is obtained from credit reports as a factor in underwriting and pricing has at times been challenged by regulators, legislators, litigants and special interest
groups in various states. Competitive pressures could also force us to modify our pricing sophistication model. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that these pricing sophistication models will
accurately reflect the level of losses that we will ultimately incur from the mix of new business generated.   

    Allstate Protection's financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business     

          The property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition,
less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting
standards and relatively high premium rates. A downturn in the profitability cycle of the property and casualty business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.   

    Risks Relating to the Allstate Financial Segment     

    Changes in underwriting and actual experience could materially affect profitability and financial condition     

          Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and
operating costs and expenses of the business. Management establishes target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital that the Company must hold to support
in-force contracts taking into account rating agencies and regulatory requirements. We monitor and manage our pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target new business returns on a
portfolio basis, which could result in the discontinuation of products or distribution relationships and a decline in sales. Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years depending on
the nature and life of the product and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions.   

          Our
profitability in this segment depends on the adequacy of investment spreads, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, the sufficiency of premiums and
contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the persistency of policies to ensure recovery of acquisition expenses, and the management of operating costs and expenses within
anticipated pricing allowances. Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability and financial condition.   

  16  

Changes in reserve estimates may adversely affect our operating results     

          Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of
future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs
significantly from assumptions, adjustments to reserves and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.   

    Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the sales and profitability of spread-based products     

Our ability to manage the Allstate Financial spread-based products, such as fixed annuities and institutional products, is dependent
upon maintaining profitable spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have
matured or have been prepaid or sold may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment spread. Lowering interest crediting rates in such an environment can partially offset decreases in
investment yield on some products. However, these changes could be limited by market conditions, regulatory minimum rates or contractual minimum rate guarantees on many contracts and may not match the
timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. Decreases in the rates offered on products in the Allstate Financial segment could make those products less attractive, leading to lower sales and/or
changes in the level of policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals. Non-parallel shifts in interest rates, such as increases in short-term rates without accompanying increases in
medium- and long-term rates, can influence customer demand for fixed annuities, which could impact the level and profitability of new customer deposits. Increases in market interest rates
can also have negative effects on Allstate Financial, for example by increasing the attractiveness of other investments to our customers, which can lead to higher surrenders at a time when the
segment's fixed income investment asset values are lower as a result of the increase in interest rates. This could lead to the sale of fixed income securities at a loss. For certain products,
principally fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life products, the earned rate on assets could lag behind rising market yields. We may react to market conditions by increasing crediting rates, which
could narrow spreads and reduce profitability. Unanticipated surrenders could result in accelerated amortization of DAC or affect the recoverability of DAC and thereby increase expenses and reduce
profitability.   

    Changes in estimates of profitability on interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment products may adversely affect our profitability and financial
condition through increased amortization of DAC     

          DAC related to interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to actual historical
gross profits and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") over the estimated lives of the contracts. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are investment returns, including
capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of persistency, mortality, expenses, and hedges if applicable. Updates
to these assumptions (commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking") could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In 2008, DAC unlocking resulted in increased amortization of DAC of
$327 million.   

    Narrowing the focus of our product offerings and reducing our concentration in fixed annuities and funding agreements may adversely affect reported results     

          Due to the current capital market conditions, we have been pursuing strategies to narrow our product offerings and reduce our
concentration in fixed annuities and funding agreements. Lower new sales of these products, as well as our ongoing risk mitigation and return optimization programs, could negatively impact investment
portfolio levels, complicate settlement of expiring contracts including forced sales of assets with unrealized capital losses, impact DAC amortization, and affect goodwill impairment testing and
insurance reserves deficiency testing.   

    A loss of key product distribution relationships could materially affect sales     

          Certain products in the Allstate Financial segment are distributed under agreements with other members of the financial services
industry that are not affiliated with us. Termination of one or more of these agreements due to, for example, a change in control of one of these distributors, could have a detrimental effect on the
sales of Allstate Financial.   

    Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products and financial condition     

          Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable
tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give certain of our products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or
eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments
that may compete with life insurance and annuities. Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on   

  17  

competing
products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our
profitability and financial condition or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws
could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.   

    Risks Relating to Investments     

    We are subject to market risk and declines in credit quality which may adversely impact investment income and cause additional realized losses     

          Although we continually reevaluate our proactive risk mitigation and return optimization programs, we remain subject to the risk that
we will incur losses due to adverse changes in equity prices, interest rates, commodity prices or foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates
and equity prices and, to a lesser degree, changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. In addition, we are subject to potential declines in credit quality, either related to
issues specific to certain industries or to a general weakening in the economy. Although to some extent we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks, the effectiveness of such
instruments is subject to the same risks.   

          A
decline in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may yield less than the portfolio's average rate. In a
declining interest rate environment, borrowers may prepay or redeem securities more quickly than expected as they seek to refinance at lower rates. A decline could also lead us to purchase
longer-term or riskier assets in order to obtain adequate investment yields resulting in a duration gap when compared to the duration of liabilities. An increase in market interest rates
could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. A
declining equity market could also cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease or decreasing interest rates could cause the funding target and the projected benefit obligation of our
pension plans or the accumulated benefit obligation of our other post retirement benefit plans to increase, either or both resulting in a decrease in the funded status of the plans and a reduction of
shareholders' equity, increases in pension expense and increases in required contributions to the pension plans. A decline in the quality of our investment portfolio as a result of adverse economic
conditions or otherwise could cause additional realized losses on securities, including realized losses relating to equity and derivative strategies.   

    Deteriorating financial performance on securities collateralized by mortgage loans and commercial mortgage loans may lead to write-downs     

          Changes in mortgage delinquency or recovery rates, declining real estate prices, changes in credit or bond insurer strength ratings and
the quality of service provided by service providers on securities in our portfolios could lead us to determine that write-downs are appropriate in the future.   

    The impact of our investment strategies may be adversely affected by developments in the investment markets     

          The impact of our investment portfolio risk mitigation and return optimization programs and enterprise asset allocation actions may be
adversely affected by unexpected developments in the investment markets. For example, derivative contracts, when entered into, may result in coverage that is not as effective as intended.   

    Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition     

The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral types, group of related industries or geographic
sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations and financial condition. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any
particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than
diversified.   

    The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments of our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results
and financial condition     

          The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our
periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes
available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in realized capital gains and losses from impairments in operating results as such evaluations are revised. There can be no
assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of or amounts recorded for impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional impairments may need to be recorded in
the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments. For example, the cost of our fixed income and equity securities is adjusted for   

  18  

impairments
in value deemed to be other than temporary in the period in which the determination is made. The assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on management's
case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value.   

The determination of the fair value of our fixed income and equity securities results in unrealized net capital gains and losses and is highly subjective and could
materially impact our operating results and financial condition     

          In determining fair value we generally utilize market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. The degree of management
judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the availability of market observable information. The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities may differ from the
amount actually received to sell an asset or the amount paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different
valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the financial assets' and financial liabilities' fair values. The difference between amortized cost or cost and fair value, net of deferred income
taxes, certain life and annuity DAC, certain deferred sales inducement costs ("DSI"), and certain reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. As of December 31, 2008, total unrealized net capital losses was $8.81 billion. In the last 10 years, our quarterly net
unrealized capital gains and losses have ranged from a $7.55 billion net unrealized capital gain at June 30, 2003 to an $8.81 billion net unrealized capital loss at
December 31, 2008. Changing market conditions could materially effect the determination of the fair value of our securities and unrealized net capital gains and losses could vary significantly.
Determining fair value is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial condition.   

    Risks Relating to the Insurance Industry     

    Our future results are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in an insurance industry that is highly competitive     

          The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because many of our products include a
savings or investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Many of our competitors have well-established national
reputations and market similar products. Because of the competitive nature of the insurance industry, including competition for producers such as exclusive and independent agents, there can be no
assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry rivals, or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial
condition. Furthermore, certain competitors operate using a mutual insurance company structure and therefore, may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. Our ability to successfully operate
may also be impaired if we are not effective in filling critical leadership positions, in developing the talent and skills of our human resources, in assimilating new executive talent into our
organization, or in deploying human resource talent consistently with our business goals.   

    Difficult conditions in the economy generally could adversely affect our business and operating results     

          Economists now believe the United States economy has entered into a recessionary period and are projecting significant negative
macroeconomic trends, including widespread job losses, higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, continued declines in home prices and substantial increases in delinquencies on consumer debt,
including defaults on home mortgages. Moreover, recent disruptions in the financial markets, particularly the reduced availability of credit and tightened lending requirements, have impacted the
ability of borrowers to refinance loans at more affordable rates. We cannot predict the length and severity of a recession, but as with most businesses, we believe a longer or more severe recession
could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   

          A
general economic slowdown could adversely affect us in the form of consumer behavior and pressure on our investment portfolios. Consumer behavior could include decreased demand for our
products. For example, as consumers purchase fewer automobiles, our sales of auto insurance may decline. Also, as consumers become more cost conscious, they may choose lower levels of auto and
homeowners insurance. In 2008, declining new car sales, weakness in the housing market and a highly competitive environment contributed to lower policies in force. In addition, holders of some of our
life insurance and annuity products may engage in an elevated level of discretionary withdrawals of contractholder funds. Our investment portfolios could be adversely affected as a result of
deteriorating financial and business conditions affecting the issuers of the securities in our investment portfolio.   

  19  

There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. federal government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the
financial markets and stimulating the economy will achieve the intended effect     

          In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system, the financial markets and the broader economy, the U.S. federal
government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking action to address such conditions including, among other things, purchasing
mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions, investing directly in banks, thrifts and bank and savings and loan holding companies and increasing federal spending to stimulate the
economy. There can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets or on economic conditions. Such continued volatility and economic deterioration could materially
and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   

    Losses from litigation may be material to our operating results or cash flows and financial condition     

          As is typical for a large company, we are involved in a substantial amount of litigation, including class action litigation challenging
a range of company practices and coverage provided by our insurance products. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts
currently reserved and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period and to our financial condition.   

    We are subject to extensive regulation and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth     

          As insurance companies, broker-dealers, investment advisers and/or investment companies, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different governmental authorities, including
state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state attorneys general, each of which exercises a
degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may not result in
compliance with another's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's
interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's
interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective, thus necessitating changes to our practices that
may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. Furthermore, in some cases, these laws and regulations are designed to protect or benefit the interests of
a specific constituency rather than a range of constituencies. For example, state insurance laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or benefit purchasers or users of insurance products,
not holders of securities issued by The Allstate Corporation. In many respects, these laws and regulations limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business.   

          In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under public scrutiny and members of Congress have discussed proposals to provide for federal chartering of insurance
companies. We can make no
assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance regulation.   

    Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business     

          Our personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to
catastrophes nationwide. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously
available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as are currently available. For example, our ability to afford reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be
dependent upon our ability to adjust premium rates for its cost, and there are no assurances that the terms and rates for our current reinsurance program will continue to be available next year. If we
were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to
either accept an increase in our exposure risk, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives.   

    Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance, which could have a material
adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition     

          The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including changes in market
conditions, whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance   

  20  

contract
and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. Our inability to collect a
material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

    The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio     

          The continued threat of terrorism, both within the United States and abroad, and ongoing military and other actions and heightened
security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses from declines in the equity markets and from interest rate changes in the United States, Europe and
elsewhere, and result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in
the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. We seek to mitigate the potential impact of terrorism on our commercial mortgage portfolio by limiting
geographical concentrations in key metropolitan areas and by requiring terrorism insurance to the extent that it is commercially available. Additionally, in the event that terrorist acts occur, both
Allstate Protection and Allstate Financial could be adversely affected, depending on the nature of the event.   

    A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, the marketability of our product offerings, and our liquidity,
operating results and financial condition     

          Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an
effect on an insurance company's business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer's
ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer's statutory capital; a change in a rating agency's determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a
particular rating; an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer's investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management or a host of other considerations that may or may not be under the
insurer's control. The current insurance financial strength ratings of Allstate Insurance Company are A+, AA- and Aa3 from A.M. Best, Standard   Poor's and Moody's,
respectively. The current insurance financial strength ratings of Allstate Life Insurance Company are A+, AA- and A1 from A.M. Best, Standard   Poor's and Moody's,
respectively. The Allstate Corporation currently maintains a senior debt rating of a-, A- and A3 from A.M. Best, Standard   Poor's and Moody's, respectively.
Several other affiliates have been assigned their own financial strength ratings by one or more rating agencies. Because all of these ratings are subject to continuous review, the retention of these
ratings cannot be assured. A downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on our sales, our competitiveness, the marketability of our product offerings, and our liquidity,
operating results and financial condition.   

    Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms     

          The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have exerted
downward pressure on the availability of liquidity and credit capacity. In the event that we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay for
capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a
variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as lenders'
perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions
against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional
financing on favorable terms.   

    Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements     

Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised,
interpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting standards
that are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

The change in our unrecognized tax benefit during the next 12 months is subject to uncertainty     

          As required by FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes", which was adopted as of
January 1, 2007, we have disclosed our estimate of net unrecognized tax benefits and the reasonably possible increase or decrease in its balance during the next 12 months. However,
actual results may differ from our estimate for reasons such as changes in our position on specific issues, developments with respect to the   

  21  

governments'
interpretations of income tax laws or changes in judgment resulting from new information obtained in audits or the appeals process.   

    The realization of deferred tax assets is subject to uncertainty     

          The realization of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, is based on our assumption that we will be able to fully
utilize the deductions that are ultimately recognized for tax purposes. However, actual results may differ from our assumptions if adequate levels of taxable income are not attained.   

    The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations     

          The Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal asset is the stock of its subsidiaries.
State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, competitive
pressures generally require the subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make
dividend payments. Limits on the ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect our liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our debt and
complete share repurchase programs in the timeframe expected.   

    The occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively     

          In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in
our disaster recovery systems could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our
computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems. In the event that a significant number of our managers could be unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to
effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.   

    Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows     

          Allstate recognizes the scientific view that the world is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures
and changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of weather events and wildfires, the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance and the results for our Allstate
Protection segment. To the extent that climate change impacts mortality rates and those changes do not match the long-term mortality assumptions in our product pricing, the results for our
Allstate Financial segment would be impacted.   

    Loss of key vendor relationships could affect our operations     

          We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of
computer hardware and software and vendors of services such as claim adjustment services and human resource benefits management services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a
bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, we may suffer operational impairments and financial losses.    

    Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments     

          None.    

    Item 2.    Properties     

          Our home office complex is located in Northbrook, Illinois. As of December 31, 2008, the Home Office complex consists of several
buildings totaling approximately 2.3 million square feet of office space on a 250-acre site.   

We
also operate from approximately 1,500 administrative, data processing, claims handling and other support facilities in North America. Approximately 4.0 million square feet are
owned and 6.9 million square feet are leased. In addition, we lease three properties as lessee in Northern Ireland comprising approximately 118,700 square feet and 90 properties in Canada
comprising approximately 230,000 square feet. We also now have one lease in London for approximately 3,700 square feet. Generally, only major Allstate facilities are owned. In a majority of cases, new
lease terms and renewals are for five years or less.   

The
locations out of which the Allstate exclusive agencies operate in the U.S. are normally leased by the agencies as lessees.    

    Item 3.    Legal Proceedings     

          Information required for Item 3 is incorporated by reference to the discussion under the heading "Regulation" and under the
heading "Legal proceedings" in Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.    

Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders     

          None.   

  22  

Part II     

    Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

          As of January 31, 2009, there were 117,498 record holders of The Allstate Corporation's common stock. The principal market for
the common stock is the New York Stock Exchange but it is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Set forth below are the high and low New York Stock Exchange Composite listing prices of, and cash
dividends declared for, the common stock during 2008 and 2007.   

The payment of dividends by Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC") to The Allstate Corporation is limited by Illinois insurance law to formula amounts
based on statutory net income and statutory surplus, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. In the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2008, AIC
paid dividends of $3.40 billion. Based on the greater of 2008 statutory net income or 10% of statutory surplus, the maximum amount of dividends that AIC will be able to pay without prior
Illinois Division of Insurance approval at a given point in time in 2009 is $1.30 billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve months measured at that point in time. Notification
and approval of intercompany lending activities is also required by the Illinois Division of Insurance for those transactions that exceed formula amounts based on statutory admitted assets and
statutory surplus.   

  23  

(1)    In
accordance with the terms of its equity compensation plans, Allstate acquired the following shares in connection with stock option exercises by employees
and/or directors. The stock was received in payment of the exercise price of the options and in satisfaction of withholding taxes due upon exercise or vesting.
         October:    none 
November:    none 
December:    none
      (2)    Repurchases
under our programs are, from time to time, executed under the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements of
Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
         On
October 22, 2008, Allstate announced the suspension of the $2.00 billion share repurchase program and does not plan to complete
it by the target date of March 31, 2009. The $2.00 billion share repurchase program was announced on February 26, 2008.    
  24  

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data     

    5-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

(1)    We
use operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results. We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our
profitability. They are calculated as follows: Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned. Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe
losses. Expense ratio is the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. Combined ratio is the ratio of claims and claims
expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The
difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned.    
  25  

Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

26  

OVERVIEW     

          The following discussion highlights significant factors influencing the consolidated financial position and results of operations of
The Allstate Corporation (referred to in this document as "we", "our", "us", the "Company" or "Allstate"). It should be read in conjunction with the 5-year summary of selected financial
data, consolidated financial statements and related notes found under Part II, Item 6 and Item 8 contained herein. Further analysis of our insurance segments is provided in the
Property-Liability Operations (which includes the Allstate Protection and the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments) and in the Allstate Financial Segment sections of Management's Discussion and
Analysis ("MD A"). The segments are consistent with the way in which we use financial information to evaluate business performance and to determine the allocation of resources.   

          Allstate
is focused on three priorities in 2009: protecting Allstate's financial strength, building customer loyalty, and continue reinventing protection and retirement for the consumer.
In addition, we will continue to monitor market conditions and will consider business start-ups, acquisitions and alliances that would forward our business objectives and represent prudent
uses of corporate capital.   

          The
most important factors we monitor to evaluate the financial condition and performance of our company include:   

For Allstate Protection: premium written, the number of policies in force ("PIF"), retention, price changes, claim
frequency (rate of claim occurrence per policy in force) and severity (average cost per claim), catastrophes, loss ratio, expenses, underwriting results and sales of all products and services;    
           For Allstate Financial: premiums and deposits, benefit and investment spread, amortization of deferred policy acquisition
costs, expenses, operating income, net income, invested assets, and new business returns;     
           For Investments: credit quality/experience, realized capital gains and losses, investment income, unrealized capital gains
and losses, stability of long-term returns, total returns, cash flows, and asset and liability duration; and     
           For financial condition: liquidity, parent company deployable invested assets, financial strength ratings, operating
leverage, debt leverage, book value per share, and return on equity.    

2008 HIGHLIGHTS     

Consolidated net loss was $1.68 billion in 2008 compared to net income of $4.64 billion in 2007. Net loss
per diluted share was $3.07 in 2008 compared to net income per diluted share of $7.77 in 2007.     
           Property-Liability net income was $228 million in 2008 compared to $4.26 billion in 2007.    
           The Property-Liability combined ratio was 99.4 in 2008 compared to 89.8 in 2007.     
           Catastrophe losses in 2008 totaled $3.34 billion compared to $1.41 billion in 2007. The effect of
catastrophe losses on the combined ratio was 12.4 points and 5.2 points in 2008 and 2007, respectively.     
           Allstate Financial had a net loss of $1.72 billion in 2008 compared to net income of $465 million in 2007.    
           Total revenues were $29.39 billion in 2008 compared to $36.77 billion in 2007.     
           Property-Liability premiums earned in 2008 totaled $26.97 billion, a decrease of 1.0% from $27.23 billion in
2007.     
           Net realized capital losses were $5.09 billion in 2008 compared to net realized capital gains of
$1.24 billion in 2007.     
           Investments as of December 31, 2008 totaled $96.00 billion, a decrease of 19.3% from $118.98 billion
as of December 31, 2007. Net investment income in 2008 was $5.62 billion, a decrease of 12.6% from $6.44 billion in 2007.     
           Book value per diluted share was $23.51 as of December 31, 2008, a decrease of 39.1% from $38.58 as of
December 31, 2007.     
           For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, return on the average of beginning and ending period shareholders'
equity was (9.7)%, a decrease of 30.9 points from 21.2% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007.     
           To further enhance our liquidity and capital levels, we suspended our $2.00 billion share repurchase program and do
not plan to complete it by our original target date of March 2009. The number of shares repurchased under the program was 22.7 million shares for $1.07 billion during the twelve months
ended December 31, 2008.     
           At December 31, 2008, we held $12.64 billion in capital. This total included $3.64 billion in
deployable invested assets at the parent holding company level.     
           On February 25, 2009, we announced that our shareholder dividend was being revised to $.20.    
 
  27  

CONSOLIDATED NET (LOSS) INCOME     

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES     

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
("GAAP") requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include
those used in determining:   

Fair Value of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities     
           Impairment of Fixed Income and Equity Securities     
           Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs ("DAC") Amortization     
           Reserve for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Estimation     
           Reserve for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits Estimation    

In
applying these policies, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies,
estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to our businesses and operations. It is reasonably likely that changes in these
estimates could occur from period to period and result in a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.   

          A
brief summary of each of these critical accounting estimates follows. For a more detailed discussion of the effect of these estimates on our consolidated financial statements, and the
judgments and assumptions related to these estimates, see the referenced sections of this document. For a complete summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 of the consolidated
financial statements.   

  28  

Fair Value of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities       Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,    Fair
Value Measurements    ("SFAS No. 157"), is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157 as of
January 1, 2008 for financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value. SFAS No. 157:   

Defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date, and establishes a framework for measuring fair value;     
           Establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation as
of the measurement date;     
           Expands disclosures about financial instruments measured at fair value.    

We
categorize our financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value based on the observability of inputs to the valuation techniques, into a three-level fair value
hierarchy as follows:   

Level      1:         Financial assets and financial liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices
for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that we can access.
       Level      2:         Financial assets and financial liabilities whose values are based on the
following:

(a)    Quoted
prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;
      (b)    Quoted
prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in non-active markets; or
      (c)    Valuation
models whose inputs are observable, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.

Level      3:         Financial assets and financial liabilities whose values are based on prices or valuation
techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. These inputs may reflect our estimates of the assumptions that market participants
would use in valuing the financial assets and financial liabilities.    

          Observable
inputs are those used by market participants in valuing financial instruments that are developed based on market data obtained from independent sources. In the absence of
sufficient observable inputs, unobservable inputs reflect our estimates of the assumptions market participants would use in valuing financial assets and financial liabilities and are developed based
on the best information available in the circumstances. The degree of management judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the availability of market observable information.   

To
distinguish among the categories, we consider the frequency of completed transactions such as daily trading for equity securities. If inputs used to measure a financial instrument
fall within different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the entire instrument. Certain
financial assets are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis, including investments such as mortgage loans, limited partnership interests, bank loans and policy loans. Accordingly, such
investments are only included in the fair value hierarchy disclosure when the investment is subject to remeasurement at fair value after initial recognition and the resulting measurement is reflected
in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, equity options embedded in fixed income securities are not disclosed in the hierarchy with free-standing derivatives, as the embedded
derivatives are presented as combined instruments in fixed income securities.   

          We
are responsible for the determination of the value of the financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value and the supporting assumptions and methodologies. We gain
assurance on the overall reasonableness and consistent application of valuation input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value determination through
the execution of various processes and controls designed to ensure that our financial assets and financial liabilities are appropriately valued. We monitor fair values received from third parties and
those derived internally on an ongoing basis.   

          In
certain situations, we employ independent third-party valuation service providers to gather, analyze, and interpret market information and derive fair values based upon relevant
assumptions and methodologies for individual instruments. In situations where our valuation service providers are unable to obtain sufficient market observable information upon which to estimate the
fair value for a particular security, fair value is determined either by requesting brokers who are knowledgeable about these securities to provide a single quote or by employing internal valuation
models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry. Changing market conditions are incorporated into valuation assumptions and reflected in the fair values, which are validated by
calibration and other analytical techniques to available market observable data.   

          Valuation
service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of proprietary algorithms,
produce valuation information in the   

  29  

form
of a single fair value for individual securities for which a fair value has been requested under the terms of our agreements. For certain equity securities, valuation service providers provide
market quotations for completed transactions on the measurement date. For other security types, fair values are derived from the valuation service providers' proprietary valuation models. The inputs
used by the valuation service providers include, but are not limited to, market prices from recently completed transactions and transactions of comparable securities, interest rate yield curves,
credit spreads, liquidity spread, currency rates, and other market-observable information, as applicable. Credit and liquidity spreads are typically implied from completed transactions and
transactions of comparable securities. Valuation service providers also use proprietary discounted cash flow models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry and similar to those
used by other market participants to value the same financial instruments. The valuation models take into account, among other things, market observable information as of the measurement date, as
described above, as well as the specific attributes of the security being valued including its term, interest rate, credit rating, industry sector, and where applicable, collateral quality and other
issue or issuer specific information. Executing valuation models effectively requires seasoned professional judgment and experience. In cases where market transactions or other market observable data
is
limited, the extent to which judgment is applied varies inversely with the availability of market observable information.   

For
certain of our financial assets carried at fair value, where our valuation service providers cannot provide fair value determinations, we obtain non-binding price quotes
from brokers familiar with the security who, similar to our valuation service providers, may consider transactions or activity in similar securities, as applicable, among other information. The
brokers providing price quotes are generally from the brokerage divisions of leading financial institutions with market making, underwriting and distribution expertise.   

          The
fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities, including privately-placed securities, certain free-standing derivatives and certain derivatives embedded in
certain contractholder liabilities, where our valuation service providers or brokers do not provide fair value determinations, is determined using valuation methods and models widely accepted in the
financial services industry. Internally developed valuation models, which include inputs that may not be market observable and as such involve some degree of judgment, are considered appropriate for
each class of security to which they are applied.   

          Our
internal pricing methods are primarily based on models using discounted cash flow methodologies that determine a single best estimate of fair value for individual financial
instruments. In addition, our models use internally assigned credit ratings as inputs (which are generally consistent with any external ratings and those we use to report our holdings by credit
rating) and stochastically determined cash flows for certain derivatives embedded in certain contractholder liabilities, both of which are difficult to independently observe and verify. Instrument
specific inputs used in our internal fair value determinations include: coupon rate, coupon type, weighted average life, sector of the issuer, call provisions, and the contractual elements of
derivatives embedded in certain contractholder liabilities. Market related inputs used in these fair values, which we believe are representative of inputs other market participants would use to
determine fair value of the same instruments include: interest rate yield curves, quoted market prices of comparable securities, credit spreads, estimated liquidity premiums, and other applicable
market data including lapse and anticipated market return estimates for derivatives embedded in certain contractholder liabilities. Credit spreads are determined using those published by a commonly
used industry specialist for comparable public securities. A liquidity premium is also added to certain securities to reflect spreads commonly required for the types of securities being valued and are
calibrated based on actual trades or other market data. As a result of the significance of non-market observable inputs, including internally assigned credit ratings and stochastic cash
flow estimates as described above, judgment is required in developing these fair values. The fair value of these financial assets and financial liabilities may differ from the amount actually received
to sell an asset or the amount paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different valuation assumptions may have
a material effect on the financial assets' and financial liabilities' fair values.   

Fair
value of our investments comprise an aggregation of numerous, single best estimates for each security in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Because of this detailed
approach, there is no single set of assumptions that determine our fair value estimates at a consolidated level. Moreover, management does not compile a range of estimates for items reported at fair
value at the consolidated level because we do not believe that a range would provide meaningful information. In the last 10 years, our quarterly net unrealized capital gains and losses have
ranged from a $7.55 billion net unrealized capital gain at June 30, 2003 to an $8.81 billion net unrealized capital loss at December 31, 2008. The change in net unrealized
capital gains and losses by quarter over the 10 year period has averaged $1.10 billion and has ranged from a $4.71 billion decrease to a $2.29 billion increase.   

          Level 1
and Level 2 measurements represent valuations where all significant inputs are market observable. Level 3 measurements have one or more significant inputs
that are not market observable and as a result these   

  30  

fair
value determinations have greater potential variability as it relates to their significant inputs. The Level 3 principal components are privately placed securities valued using internal
models and broker quoted securities. Additionally, due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been
experienced in the market, all asset-backed residential mortgage-backed securities ("ABS RMBS"), auction rate securities ("ARS") backed by student loans, Alt-A residential mortgage-backed
securities ("Alt-A"), other collateralized debt obligations ("CDO"), certain asset-backed securities ("ABS") and certain commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS") are categorized as
Level 3. In general, the greater the reliance on significant inputs that are not market observable, the greater potential variability of the fair value determinations. For broker quoted
securities' fair value determinations, which were all categorized as Level 3, we believe the brokers providing the quotes may consider market observable transactions or activity in similar
securities, as applicable, and other information as calibration points. Privately placed securities' fair value determinations, which are based on internal ratings that are not market observable and
categorized as Level 3, are calibrated to market observable information in the form of external National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") ratings and credit spreads.   

          We
believe our most significant exposure to changes in fair value is due to market risk. Our exposure to changes in market conditions is discussed fully in the Market Risk section of the
MD A.   

          We
employ specific control processes to determine the reasonableness of the fair values of our financial assets and financial liabilities. Our processes are designed to ensure that the
values received or internally estimated are accurately recorded and that the data inputs and the valuation techniques utilized are appropriate, consistently applied, and that the assumptions are
reasonable and consistent with the objective of determining fair value. For example, on a continuing basis, we assess the reasonableness of individual security values received from valuation service
providers that exceed certain thresholds as compared to previous values received from those valuation service providers. In addition, we may validate the reasonableness of fair values by comparing
information obtained from our valuation service providers to other third party valuation sources for selected financial assets. When fair value determinations are expected to be more variable, we
validate them through reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing investment transactions. We do not alter fair values provided
by our valuation providers or brokers.   

          The
following table identifies investments as of December 31, 2008 by source of value determination:   

(1)    Includes
$2.73 billion that are valued using broker quotes.    

          For more detailed information on our accounting policy for the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities and information on the
financial assets and financial liabilities included in the levels promulgated by SFAS No. 157, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

Impairment of Fixed Income and Equity Securities       For investments classified as available for sale, the difference between fair value and
amortized
cost for fixed income securities and cost for equity securities, net of certain other items and deferred income taxes (as disclosed in Note 5), is reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and is not reflected in the operating results of any period until reclassified to net income upon the consummation of a
transaction with an unrelated third party or when the decline in fair value is deemed other than temporary. The
assessment of whether the impairment of a security's fair value is other than temporary is performed using a portfolio review as well as a case-by-case review considering a
wide range of factors.   

          There
are a number of assumptions and estimates inherent in evaluating impairments and determining if they are other than temporary, including: 1) our ability and intent to hold
the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; 2) the expected recoverability of principal and interest; 3) the length of time and extent
to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed income securities or cost for equity securities; 4) the financial condition, near-term and long-term
prospects of the issue or issuer, including   

  31  

relevant
industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; and 5) the specific reasons that a security is in a significant unrealized loss position,
including market conditions which could affect liquidity. Additionally, once assumptions and estimates are made, any number of changes in facts and circumstances could cause us to subsequently
determine that an impairment is other than temporary, including: 1) general economic conditions that are worse than previously forecasted or that have a greater adverse effect on a particular
issuer or industry sector than originally estimated; 2) changes in the facts and circumstances related to a particular issue or issuer's ability to meet all of its contractual obligations; and
3) changes in facts and circumstances obtained that causes a change in our ability or intent to hold a security to maturity or until it recovers in value. Examples of situations which may
change our ability or intent to hold a security to maturity or recovery include where significant unanticipated new facts and circumstances emerge or existing facts and circumstances increase in
significance and are anticipated to adversely impact a security's future valuations more than previously expected, including negative developments that would change the view of long term investors and
their intent to continue to hold the investment, subsequent credit deterioration of an issuer or holding, subsequent further deterioration in capital markets (i.e. debt and equity) and of economic
conditions, subsequent further deterioration in the financial services and real estate industries, liquidity needs, federal income tax situations involving capital gains and capital loss carrybacks
and carryforwards with specific expiration dates, investment risk mitigation actions, and other new facts and circumstances that would cause a change in our previous intent to hold a security to
recovery or maturity. Changes in assumptions, facts and circumstances could result in additional charges to earnings in future periods to the extent that losses are realized. The charge to earnings,
while potentially significant to net income, would not have a significant effect on shareholders' equity, since the majority of our portfolio is designated as
available-for-sale and carried at fair value and as a result, any related net unrealized loss would already be reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
income in shareholders' equity.   

          The
determination of the amount of impairment is an inherently subjective process based on periodic evaluation of the factors described above. Such evaluations and assessments are
revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in impairments in results of operations as such evaluations are revised. The
use of different methodologies and assumptions as to the determination of the fair value of investments and the timing and amount of impairments may have a material effect on the amounts presented
within the consolidated financial statements.   

          Fixed
income securities subject to other-than-temporary impairment write-downs continue to earn investment income when future expected payments are both
reasonably estimable and probable, and any discount or premium is recognized using the effective yield method over the expected life of the security; otherwise income recognition is discontinued. For
a more detailed discussion of the risks relating to changes in investment values and levels of investment impairment as well as the potential causes of such changes, see Note 5 of the
consolidated financial statements and the Investments, Market Risk, Enterprise Risk and Return Management and Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this document.   

            Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Amortization       We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring insurance policies and
investment contracts.
In accordance with GAAP, costs that vary with and are primarily
related to acquiring insurance policies and investment contracts are deferred and recorded as an asset on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

          DAC
related to property-liability contracts is amortized into income as premiums are earned, typically over periods of six to twelve months. The amortization methodology for DAC for
Allstate Financial policies and contracts includes significant assumptions and estimates.   

          DAC
related to traditional life insurance is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Significant
assumptions relating to estimated premiums, investment returns, which include investment income and realized capital gains and losses, as well as mortality, persistency and expenses to administer the
business are established at the time the policy is issued and are generally not revised during the life of the policy. The assumptions for determining DAC amortization are consistent with the
assumptions used to calculate the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits. Any deviations from projected business in force resulting from actual policy terminations differing from
expected levels and any estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these policies
approximates the estimated lives of the policies. The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of this business. We periodically review the adequacy of reserves and recoverability of
DAC for these policies on an aggregate basis using actual experience. We aggregate all products accounted for pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 60, "Accounting and
Reporting by Insurance Enterprises" ("SFAS No. 60"), in the analysis. In the event actual experience is significantly adverse compared to the original assumptions, any remaining unamortized DAC
balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and a premium deficiency reserve may be required if the remaining DAC   

  32  

balance
is insufficient to absorb the deficiency. In 2008, for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, an aggregate premium deficiency of $336 million
pre-tax ($219 million after-tax) resulted primarily from a study indicating that the annuitants on certain life-contingent contracts are projected to live
longer than we anticipated when the contracts were issued and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio yield. The deficiency was recorded through a reduction in DAC. In
2007 and 2006, our reviews concluded that no premium deficiency adjustments were necessary, primarily due to projected income from traditional life insurance more than offsetting the projected
deficiency in immediate annuities with life contingencies.   

          DAC
related to interest-sensitive life, annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which includes
both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on the
prior period DAC balance using rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating estimates of
customer surrender rates, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized during the surrender charge period. The cumulative DAC amortization is reestimated
and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to results of operations when there is a difference between the incidence of actual versus expected gross profits in a reporting period or when there is a
change in total EGP.   

          AGP
and EGP consist primarily of the following components: contract charges for the cost of insurance less mortality costs and other benefits (benefit margin); investment income and
realized capital gains and losses less interest credited (investment margin); and surrender and other contract charges less maintenance expenses (expense margin). The amount of EGP is principally
dependent on assumptions for investment returns, including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of
persistency, mortality, expenses, and hedges if applicable, and these assumptions are reasonably likely to have the greatest impact on the amount of DAC amortization. Changes in these assumptions can
be offsetting and the Company is unable to reasonably predict their future movements or offsetting impacts over time.   

          Each
reporting period, DAC amortization is recognized in proportion to AGP for that period adjusted for interest on the prior period DAC balance. This amortization process includes an
assessment of AGP compared to EGP, the actual amount of business remaining in-force and realized capital gains and losses on investments supporting the product liability. The impact of
realized capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC depends upon which product liability is supported by the assets that give rise to the gain or loss. If the AGP is less than EGP in the period,
but the total EGP is unchanged, the amount of DAC amortization will generally decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. The opposite result generally occurs when the AGP exceeds
the EGP in the period, but the total EGP is unchanged.   

          Annually,
we review all assumptions underlying the projections of EGP, including investment returns, comprising investment income and realized capital gains and losses, interest
crediting rates, persistency, mortality, and expenses. Management annually updates assumptions used in the calculation of EGP. At each reporting period, we assess whether any revisions to assumptions
used to determine DAC amortization are required. These reviews and updates may result in amortization acceleration or deceleration, which are commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking".   

If
the update of assumptions causes total EGP to increase, the rate of DAC amortization will generally decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. A decrease to
earnings generally occurs when the assumption update causes the total EGP to decrease.   

          Over
the past three years, our most significant DAC assumption updates that resulted in a change to EGP and the amortization of DAC have been revisions to expected future investment
returns, primarily realized capital losses, expenses, mortality and the number of contracts in force or persistency resulting in net DAC amortization acceleration of $327 million in 2008,
deceleration of $14 million in 2007 and acceleration of $2 million in 2006.   

The
following table provides the effect on DAC amortization of changes in assumptions relating to the gross profit components of investment margin, benefit margin and expense margin
during the years ended December 31.   

33  

DAC
amortization acceleration related to changes in the EGP component of investment margin in 2008 was primarily due to the level of realized capital losses impacting actual gross
profits in 2008 and the impact of realized capital losses on expected gross profits in 2009. The deceleration related to benefit margin was due to more favorable projected life insurance mortality.
The acceleration related to expense margin resulted from current and expected expense levels higher than previously projected. DAC amortization deceleration related to changes in the EGP component of
investment margin in 2007 was due to higher yields from repositioning of the investment portfolio and reduced interest crediting rates on annuities. The deceleration related to benefit margin was due
to more favorable projected life insurance mortality. The acceleration related to expense margin was a result of expenses being higher than expected.   

          The
following table displays the sensitivity of reasonably likely changes in assumptions included in the gross profit components of investment margin or benefit margin to amortization of
the DAC balance as of December 31, 2008.   

Any
potential changes in assumptions discussed above are measured without consideration of correlation among assumptions. Therefore, it would be inappropriate to add them together in an
attempt to estimate overall variability in amortization.   

          For
additional discussion see the Allstate Financial Segment and Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors sections of this document and Note 2 and 10 of the consolidated
financial statements.   

            Reserve for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense Estimation       Reserves are established to
provide for the estimated costs of paying claims and claims expenses under insurance policies we have issued. Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of
property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves. These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including claims that have been incurred but not
reported ("IBNR"), as of the financial statement date.   

            Characteristics of Reserves       Reserves are established independently of business segment management for each business segment and line of
business
based on estimates of the ultimate cost to settle claims, less losses that have been paid. The significant lines of business are auto, homeowners, and other lines for Allstate Protection, and
asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines for Discontinued Lines and Coverages. Allstate Protection's claims are typically reported promptly with relatively little reporting lag between
the date of occurrence and the date the loss is reported. Auto and homeowners liability losses generally take an average of about two years to settle, while auto physical damage, homeowners property
and other personal lines have an average settlement time of less than one year. Discontinued Lines and Coverages involve long-tail losses, such as those related to asbestos and
environmental claims, which often involve substantial reporting lags and extended times to settle.   

          Reserves
are the difference between the estimated ultimate cost of losses incurred and the amount of paid losses as of the reporting date. Reserves are estimated for both reported and
unreported claims, and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling all incurred claims. We update the majority of our reserve estimates quarterly and as new information
becomes available or as events emerge that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior year reserve estimates (reserve reestimates), which may be material, are determined by
comparing updated estimates of ultimate losses to prior estimates, and the differences are recorded as property-liability insurance claims and claims expenses in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations in the period such changes are determined. Estimating the ultimate cost of claims and claims expenses is an inherently uncertain and complex process involving a high degree of judgment and
is subject to the evaluation of numerous variables.   

           The Actuarial Methods used to Develop Reserve Estimates       Reserve estimates are derived by using several different actuarial estimation
methods that
are variations on one primary actuarial technique. The actuarial technique is known as a "chain ladder" estimation process in which historical loss patterns are applied to actual paid losses and
reported losses (paid losses plus individual case reserves established by claim adjusters) for an accident year or a report year to create an estimate of how losses are likely to develop over time. An
accident year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims occurred. A report year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims are reported. Both
classifications are used to prepare estimates of   

  34  

required
reserves for payments to be made in the future. The key assumptions affecting our reserve estimates comprise data elements including claim counts, paid losses, case reserves, and development
factors calculated with this data.   

          In
the chain ladder estimation technique, a ratio (development factor) is calculated which compares current period results to results in the prior period for each accident year. A
three-year or two-year average development factor, based on historical results, is usually multiplied by the current period experience to estimate the development of losses of
each accident year into the next time period. The development factors for the future time periods for each accident year are compounded over the remaining future periods to calculate an estimate of
ultimate losses for each accident year. The implicit assumption of this technique is that an average of historical development factors is predictive of future loss development, as the significant size
of our experience data base achieves a high degree of statistical credibility in actuarial projections of this type. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process, the
implicit assumption being that a
multi-year average development factor includes an adequate provision. Occasionally, unusual aberrations in loss patterns are caused by external and internal factors such as changes in
claim reporting, settlement patterns, unusually large losses, process changes, legal or regulatory changes, and other influences. In these instances, analyses of alternate development factor
selections are performed to evaluate the effect of these factors, and actuarial judgment is applied to make appropriate development factor assumptions needed to develop a best estimate of ultimate
losses.   

            How Reserve Estimates are Established and Updated       Reserve estimates are developed at a very detailed level, and the results of these
numerous
micro-level best estimates are aggregated to form a consolidated reserve estimate. For example, over one thousand actuarial estimates of the types described above are prepared each quarter to
estimate losses for each line of insurance, major components of losses (such as coverages and perils), major states or groups of states and for reported losses and IBNR. The actuarial methods
described above are used to analyze the settlement patterns of claims by determining the development factors for specific data elements that are necessary components of a reserve estimation process.
Development factors are calculated quarterly for data elements such as, claim counts reported and settled, paid losses, and paid losses combined with case reserves. The calculation of development
factors from changes in these data elements also impacts claim severity trends, which is a common industry reference used to explain changes in reserve estimates. The historical development patterns
for these data elements are used as the assumptions to calculate reserve estimates.   

Often,
several different estimates are prepared for each detailed component, incorporating alternative analyses of changing claim settlement patterns and other influences on losses, from
which we select our best estimate for each component, occasionally incorporating additional analyses and actuarial judgment, as described above. These micro-level estimates are not based on a single
set of assumptions. Actuarial judgments that may be applied to these components of certain micro-level estimates generally do not have a material impact on the consolidated level of reserves.
Moreover, this detailed micro-level process does not permit or result in a compilation of a company-wide roll up to generate a range of needed loss reserves that would be meaningful. Based
on our review of these estimates, our best estimate of required reserves for each state/line/coverage component is recorded for each accident year, and the required reserves for each component are
summed to create the reserve balance carried on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

          Reserves
are reestimated quarterly, by combining historical results with current actual results to calculate new development factors. This process incorporates the historic and latest
actual trends, and other underlying changes in the data elements used to calculate reserve estimates. New development factors are likely to differ from previous development factors used in prior
reserve estimates because actual results (claims reported or settled, losses paid, or changes to case reserves) occur differently than the implied assumptions contained in the previous development
factor calculations. If claims reported, paid losses, or case reserve changes are greater or lower than the levels estimated by previous development factors, reserve reestimates increase or decrease.
When actual development of these data elements is different than the historical development pattern used in a prior period reserve estimate, a new reserve is determined. The difference between
indicated reserves based on new reserve estimates and recorded reserves (the previous estimate) is the amount of reserve reestimate and an increase or decrease in property-liability insurance claims
and claims expense will be recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Total Property-liability reserve reestimates, after-tax, as a percent of net income, in 2008, 2007 and
2006 were (6.6)%, 2.4% and 12.6%, respectively. For Property-Liability, the 3-year average of reserve reestimates as a percentage of total reserves was a favorable 1.9%, for Allstate
Protection, the 3-year average of reserve estimates was a favorable 2.6% and for Discontinued Lines and Coverages the 3-year average of reserve reestimates was an unfavorable
3.1%, each of these results being consistent within a reasonable actuarial tolerance for our respective businesses. Allstate Protection reserve reestimates were primarily the result of claim severity
development that was better than expected and late reported loss development that was better than expected due to lower frequency trends, and for Discontinued Lines and Coverages, reestimates were
primarily a result of increased reported claim activity (claims frequency). A more detailed discussion of reserve reestimates is presented in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
section of this document.   

  35  

The following table shows claims and claims expense reserves by operating segment and line of business as of December 31:   

Allstate Protection Reserve Estimates     

            Factors Affecting Reserve Estimates       Reserve estimates are developed based on the processes and historical development trends as
previously described.
These estimates are considered in conjunction with known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, differing payment
patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic conditions. When we
experience changes of the type previously mentioned, we may need to apply actuarial judgment in the determination and selection of development factors considered more reflective of the new trends,
such as combining shorter or longer periods of historical results with current actual results to produce development factors based on two-year, three-year, or longer
development periods to reestimate our reserves. For example, if a legal change is expected to have a significant impact on the development of claim severity for a coverage which is part of a
particular line of insurance in a specific state, actuarial judgment is applied to determine appropriate development factors that will most accurately reflect the expected impact on that specific
estimate. Another example would be when a change in economic conditions is expected to affect the cost of repairs to damaged autos or property for a particular line, coverage, or state, actuarial
judgment is applied to determine appropriate development factors to use in the reserve estimate that will most accurately reflect the expected impacts on severity development.   

          As
claims are reported, for certain liability claims of sufficient size and complexity, the field adjusting staff establishes case reserve estimates of ultimate cost, based on their
assessment of facts and circumstances related
to each individual claim. For other claims which occur in large volumes and settle in a relatively short time frame, it is not practical or efficient to set case reserves for each claim, and a
statistical case reserve is set for these claims based on estimation techniques previously described. In the normal course of business, we may also supplement our claims processes by utilizing third
party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, other professionals and information sources to assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related claims.   

          Historically,
the case reserves set by the field adjusting staff have not proven to be an entirely accurate estimate of the ultimate cost of claims. To provide for this, a development
reserve is estimated using previously described processes, and allocated to pending claims as a supplement to case reserves. Typically, the case and supplemental development reserves comprise about
90% of total reserves.   

          Another
major component of reserves is IBNR. Typically, IBNR comprises about 10% of total reserves.   

Generally,
the initial reserves for a new accident year are established based on severity assumptions for different business segments, lines, and coverages based on historical
relationships to relevant inflation indicators, and reserves for prior accident years are statistically determined using processes previously described. Changes in auto current year claim severity are
generally influenced by inflation in the medical and auto repair sectors of the economy. We mitigate these effects through various loss management programs. Injury claims are affected largely by
medical cost inflation while physical damage claims are affected largely by auto repair cost inflation and used car prices. For auto physical damage coverages, we monitor our rate of increase in
average cost per claim against a weighted average of the Maintenance and Repair price index and the Parts   Equipment price index. We believe our claim settlement initiatives, such as
improvements to the claim review and settlement process, the use   

  36  

of
special investigative units to detect fraud and handle suspect claims, litigation management and defense strategies, as well as various other loss management initiatives underway, contribute to the
mitigation of injury and physical damage severity trends.   

          Changes
in homeowners current year claim severity are generally influenced by inflation in the cost of building materials, the cost of construction and property repair services, the cost
of replacing home furnishings and other contents, the types of claims that qualify for coverage, deductibles and other economic and environmental factors. We employ various loss management programs to
mitigate the effect of these factors.   

          As
loss experience for the current year develops for each type of loss, it is monitored relative to initial assumptions until it is judged to have sufficient statistical credibility.
From that point in time and forward, reserves are reestimated using statistical actuarial processes to reflect the impact actual loss trends have on development factors incorporated into the actuarial
estimation processes. Statistical credibility is usually achieved by the end of the first calendar year; however, when trends for the current accident year exceed initial assumptions sooner, they are
usually given credibility, and reserves are increased accordingly.   

          The
very detailed processes for developing reserve estimates and the lack of a need and existence of a common set of assumptions or development factors, limits aggregate reserve level
testing for variability of data elements. However, by applying standard actuarial methods to consolidated historic accident year loss data for major loss types, comprising auto injury losses, auto
physical damage losses and homeowner losses, we develop variability analyses consistent with the way we develop reserves by measuring the potential variability of development factors, as described in
the section titled, "Potential Reserve Estimate Variability" below.   

            Causes of Reserve Estimate Uncertainty       Since reserves are estimates of the unpaid portions of claims and claims expenses that have
occurred,
including IBNR losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, requires regular reevaluation and refinement of estimates to determine our ultimate loss
estimate.   

          At
each reporting date, the highest degree of uncertainty in estimates of losses arises from claims remaining to be settled for the current accident year and the most recent preceding
accident year. The greatest degree of uncertainty exists in the current accident year because the current accident year contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been reported or
settled but must be estimated as of the current reporting date. Most of these losses relate to damaged property such as automobiles and homes, and medical care for injuries from accidents. During the
first year after the end of an accident year, a large portion of the total losses for that accident year are settled. When accident year losses paid through the end of the first year following the
initial accident year are incorporated into updated actuarial estimates, the trends inherent in the settlement of claims emerge more clearly. Consequently, this is the point in time at which we tend
to make our largest reestimates of losses for an accident year. After the second year, the losses that we pay for an accident year typically relate to claims that are more difficult to settle, such as
those involving serious injuries or litigation. Private passenger auto insurance provides a good illustration of the uncertainty of future loss estimates: our typical annual percentage payout of
reserves for an accident year is approximately 50% in the first year after the end of the accident year, 20% in the second year, 15% in the third year, 5% in the fourth year, and the remaining 10%
thereafter.   

           Reserves for Catastrophe Losses       Property-Liability claims and claims expense reserves also include reserves for catastrophe losses.
Catastrophe
losses are an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance industry that have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to potentially material year-to-year
fluctuations in our results of operations and financial position. We define a "catastrophe" as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million and
involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within
a certain amount of time following the event. Catastrophes are caused by various natural events including high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes,
earthquakes, and volcanoes. We are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events, such as certain acts of terrorism or industrial accidents. The nature and level of catastrophes in any
period cannot be predicted.   

          The
estimation of claims and claims expense reserves for catastrophes also comprises estimates of losses from reported claims and IBNR, primarily for damage to property. In general, our
estimates for catastrophe reserves are based on claim adjuster inspections and the application of historical loss development factors as described previously. However, depending on the nature of the
catastrophe, as noted above, the estimation process can be further complicated. For example, for hurricanes, complications could include the inability of insureds to be able to promptly report losses,
limitations placed on claims adjusting staff affecting their ability to inspect losses, determining whether losses are covered by our homeowners policy (generally for damage caused by wind or wind
driven rain), or specifically excluded coverage caused by flood, estimating additional living   

  37  

expenses,
and assessing the impact of demand surge, exposure to mold damage, and the effects of numerous other considerations, including the timing of a catastrophe in relation to other events, such
as at or near the end of a financial reporting period, which can affect the availability of information needed to estimate reserves for that reporting period. In these situations, we may need to adapt
our practices to accommodate these circumstances in order to determine a best estimate of our losses from a catastrophe. As an example, in 2005 to complete an estimate for certain areas affected by
Hurricane Katrina and not yet inspected by our claims adjusting staff, or where we believed our historical loss development factors were not predictive, we relied on analysis of actual claim notices
received compared to total policies in force, as well as visual, governmental and third party
information, including aerial photos, area observations, and data on wind speed and flood depth to the extent available.   

            Potential Reserve Estimate Variability       The aggregation of numerous micro-level estimates for each business segment, line of insurance,
major
components of losses (such as coverages and perils), and major states or groups of states for reported losses and IBNR forms the reserve liability recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. Because of this detailed approach to developing our reserve estimates, there is not a single set of assumptions that determine our reserve estimates at the consolidated level. Given the
numerous micro-level estimates for reported losses and IBNR, management does not believe the processes that we follow will produce a statistically credible or reliable actuarial reserve range that
would be meaningful. Reserve estimates, by their very nature, are very complex to determine and subject to significant judgment, and do not represent an exact determination for each outstanding claim.
Accordingly, as actual claims, and/or paid losses, and/or case reserve results emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle will be different than previously estimated.   

To
develop a statistical indication of potential reserve variability within reasonably likely possible outcomes, an actuarial technique (stochastic modeling) is applied to the
countrywide consolidated data elements for paid losses and paid losses combined with case reserves separately for injury losses, auto physical damage losses, and homeowners losses excluding
catastrophe losses. Based on the combined historical variability of the development factors calculated for these data elements, an estimate of the standard error or standard deviation around these
reserve estimates is calculated within each accident year for the last eleven years for each type of loss. The variability of these reserve estimates within one standard deviation of the mean (a
measure of frequency of dispersion often viewed to be an acceptable level of accuracy) is believed by management to represent a reasonable and statistically probable measure of potential variability.
Based on our products and coverages, historical experience, the statistical credibility of our extensive data, and stochastic modeling of actuarial chain ladder methodologies used to develop reserve
estimates, we estimate that the potential variability of our Allstate Protection reserves, within a reasonable probability of other possible outcomes, may be approximately plus or minus 4%, or plus or
minus $400 million in net income. A lower level of variability exists for auto injury losses, which comprise approximately 70% of reserves, due to their relatively stable development patterns
over a longer duration of time required to settle claims. Other types of losses, such as auto physical damage, homeowners losses and other losses, which comprise about 30% of reserves, tend to have
greater variability, but are settled in a much shorter period of time. Although this evaluation reflects most reasonably likely outcomes, it is possible the final outcome may fall below or above these
amounts. Historical variability of reserve estimates is reported in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

            Adequacy of Reserve Estimates       We believe our net claims and claims expense reserves are appropriately established based on available
methodology,
facts, technology, laws and regulations. We calculate and record a single best reserve estimate, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial standards, for each line of insurance, its components
(coverages and perils), and state, for reported losses and for IBNR losses and as a result we believe that no other estimate is better than our recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties involved, the
ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on our best estimates.   

    Discontinued Lines and Coverages Reserve Estimates     

            Characteristics of Discontinued Lines Exposure       We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Asbestos claims relate
primarily to bodily
injuries asserted by people who were exposed to asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs.   

          Our
exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises principally from assumed reinsurance coverage written during the 1960s through the
mid-1980s, including reinsurance on primary insurance written on large U.S. companies, and from direct excess insurance written from 1972 through 1985, including substantial excess general
liability coverages on large U.S. companies. Additional exposure stems from direct primary commercial insurance written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Other discontinued lines   

  38  

exposures
primarily relate to general liability and product liability mass tort claims, such as those for medical devices and other products.   

          In
1986, the general liability policy form used by us and others in the property-liability industry was amended to introduce an "absolute pollution exclusion," which excluded coverage
for environmental damage claims, and to add an asbestos exclusion. Most general liability policies issued prior to 1987 contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage. General
liability policies issued in 1987 and thereafter contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage and annual aggregate limits for all coverages. Our experience to date is that these
policy form changes have limited the extent of our exposure to environmental and asbestos claim risks.   

          Our
exposure to liability for asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines losses manifests differently depending on whether it arises from assumed reinsurance coverage, direct
excess insurance, or direct primary commercial insurance. The direct insurance coverage we provided that covered asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines was substantially "excess" in
nature.   

          Direct
excess insurance and reinsurance involve coverage written by us for specific layers of protection above retentions and other insurance plans. The nature of excess coverage and
reinsurance provided to other insurers limits our exposure to loss to specific layers of protection in excess of policyholder retention on primary insurance plans. Our exposure is further limited by
the significant reinsurance that we had purchased on our direct excess business.   

          Our
assumed reinsurance business involved writing generally small participations in other insurers' reinsurance programs. The reinsured losses in which we participate may be a proportion
of all eligible losses or eligible losses in excess of defined retentions. The majority of our assumed reinsurance exposure, approximately 85%, is for excess of loss coverage, while the remaining 15%
is for pro-rata coverage.   

          Our
direct primary commercial insurance business did not include coverage to large asbestos manufacturers. This business comprises a cross section of policyholders engaged in many
diverse business sectors located throughout the country.   

            How Reserve Estimates are Established and Updated       We conduct an annual review in the third quarter to evaluate and establish asbestos,
environmental
and other discontinued lines reserves. Changes to reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best practices and
assuming no change in the regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive "grounds up" methodology determines asbestos reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of
exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, and determines environmental reserves
based on assessments of the characteristics of exposure (e.g. environmental damages, respective shares of liability of potentially responsible parties, appropriateness and cost of remediation)
to pollution and related clean-up costs. The number and cost of these claims is affected by intense advertising by trial lawyers seeking asbestos plaintiffs, and entities with asbestos
exposure seeking bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos liabilities, initially causing a delay in the reporting of claims, often followed by an acceleration and an increase in claims and claims
expenses as settlements occur.   

          After
evaluating our insureds' probable liabilities for asbestos and/or environmental claims, we evaluate our insureds' coverage programs for such claims. We consider our insureds' total
available insurance coverage, including the coverage we issued. We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of policy language and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any.   

          Evaluation
of both the insureds' estimated liabilities and our exposure to the insureds depends heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and litigation environment. This
analysis is conducted by our specialized claims adjusting staff and legal counsel. Based on these evaluations, case reserves are established by claims adjusting staff and actuarial analysis is
employed to develop an IBNR reserve, which includes estimated potential reserve development and claims that have occurred but have not been reported. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, IBNR was
63.8% and 63.2%, respectively, of combined asbestos and environmental reserves.   

          For
both asbestos and environmental reserves, we also evaluate our historical direct net loss and expense paid and incurred experience to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or
characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and incurred activity.   

  39  

Other Discontinued Lines and Coverages       The following table shows reserves for Other Discontinued Lines which provide for remaining loss
and loss
expense liabilities related to business no longer written by us, other than asbestos and environmental as of December 31.   

Other
mass torts describes direct excess and reinsurance general liability coverage provided for cumulative injury losses other than asbestos and environmental. Workers' compensation and
commercial and other include run-off from discontinued direct primary, direct excess and reinsurance commercial insurance operations of various coverage exposures other than asbestos and
environmental. Reserves are based on considerations similar to those previously described, as they relate to the characteristics of specific individual coverage exposures.   

            Potential Reserve Estimate Variability       Establishing Discontinued Lines and Coverages net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and
other
discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are much greater than those presented by other types of claims. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long reporting delays,
uncertainty as to the number and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the determination, availability
and timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability; availability and collectability of recoveries from reinsurance; retrospectively determined premiums
and other contractual agreements; estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos
defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are covered, or were ever
intended to be covered, and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Courts have reached different and sometimes inconsistent
conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are
determined; how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage. Our reserves for asbestos and environmental
exposures could be affected by tort reform, class action litigation, and other potential legislation and judicial decisions. Environmental exposures could also be affected by a change in the existing
federal Superfund law and similar state statutes. There can be no assurance that any reform legislation will be enacted or that any such legislation will provide for a fair, effective and
cost-efficient system for settlement of asbestos or environmental claims. We believe these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future, and the ultimate costs may vary
materially from the amounts currently recorded resulting in material changes in loss reserves. Historical variability of reserve estimates is demonstrated in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims
Expense Reserves section of this document.   

            Adequacy of Reserve Estimates       Management believes its net loss reserves for environmental, asbestos and other discontinued lines
exposures are
appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws, regulations, and assessments of other pertinent factors and characteristics of exposure (e.g. claim activity, potential
liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, assuming no change in the legal, legislative or economic environment. Due to the
uncertainties and factors described above, management believes it is not practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

            Further Discussion of Reserve Estimates       For further discussion of these estimates and quantification of the impact of reserve estimates,
 reserve
reestimates and assumptions, see Notes 7 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements and the Catastrophe Losses, Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves and Forward-looking
Statements and Risk Factors sections of this document.   

           Reserve for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits Estimation       Benefits for these policies are payable over many years; accordingly, the
reserves are calculated as the present value of future expected benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of future expected net premiums. Long-term actuarial assumptions of future
investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses are used when establishing the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under insurance policies
including traditional life insurance, life-contingent immediate annuities and voluntary health products. These assumptions, which for traditional life insurance are applied using the net
level premium method, include provisions for adverse deviation and generally   

  40  

vary
by characteristics such as type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. Future investment yield assumptions are determined based upon prevailing investment yields as well as estimated
reinvestment yields. Mortality, morbidity and policy termination assumptions are based on our experience and industry experience. Expense assumptions include the estimated effects of inflation and
expenses to be incurred beyond the premium-paying period. These assumptions are established at the time the policy is issued, are consistent with assumptions for determining DAC amortization for these
policies, and are generally not changed during the policy coverage period. However, if actual experience emerges in a manner that is significantly adverse relative to the original assumptions,
adjustments to DAC or reserves may be required resulting in a charge to earnings which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We periodically review the
adequacy of these reserves and recoverability of DAC for these policies on an aggregate basis using actual experience. In the event that actual experience is significantly adverse compared to the
original assumptions, any remaining unamortized DAC balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and the establishment of a premium deficiency reserve may be required. The effects of changes
in reserve estimates are reported in the results of operations in the period in which the changes are determined. In 2008, for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life
contingencies, an aggregate premium deficiency of $336 million pre-tax ($219 million after-tax) resulted primarily from a study indicating that the annuitants on
certain life-contingent contracts are projected to live longer than we anticipated when the contracts were issued and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio
yield. The deficiency was recorded through a reduction in DAC. In 2007 and 2006, our reviews concluded that no premium deficiency adjustments were necessary, primarily due to projected income from
traditional life insurance more than offsetting the projected deficiency in immediate annuities with life contingencies. We will continue to monitor the experience of our traditional life insurance
and immediate annuities. Further significant changes in mortality experience or the portfolio yield could result in additional charges in future periods. The Company has not recognized a charge of
this nature in previous years. We anticipate that mortality, investment and reinvestment yields, and policy terminations are the factors that would be most likely to require adjustment to these
reserves or related DAC.   

          For
further discussion of these policies, see Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements and the Forward-looking Statements and Risk Factors section of this document.   

  41  

PROPERTY-LIABILITY 2008 HIGHLIGHTS     

Premiums written, an operating measure that is defined and reconciled to premiums earned on page 46, decreased 2.2%
to $26.58 billion in 2008 from $27.18 billion in 2007. Allstate brand standard auto premiums written in 2008 decreased 0.7% to $15.92 billion in 2008 from $16.04 billion in
2007. Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decreased 1.3% to $5.64 billion in 2008 from $5.71 billion in 2007. A continuation of declining new car sales, weakness in the housing
market and a highly competitive environment contributed to lower policies in force.     
           Premium operating measures and statistics contributing to the overall Allstate brand standard auto premiums written
decline were the following:  
 
       1.8% decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007           0.6 point decline in the six month renewal ratio
to 88.9% in 2008 compared to 89.5% in 2007         
  1.2% increase in the six month policy term average gross premium before reinsurance to $427 in 2008 from $422 in 2007          7.5% decrease in new issued applications in 2008
compared to 2007     
     
        Premium operating measures and statistics contributing to the overall Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decline
were the following:  
 
       4.2% decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007           0.5 point increase in the twelve month renewal
ratio to 87.0% in 2008 compared to 86.5% in 2007          1.3% increase in the twelve month policy term average gross premium before reinsurance to $861 in 2008 from $850 in 2007
         26.0% decrease in new issued applications in 2008 compared to 2007           $100 million decrease in catastrophe reinsurance
costs to $657 million in 2008 from $757 million in
2007     
     
        Factors contributing to the Allstate brand standard auto loss ratio increase of 2.3 points to 68.1 in 2008 from 65.8 in
2007 were the following:  
 
       6.5% decrease in standard auto property damage gross claim frequency in 2008 compared to 2007           8.5% decrease in bodily injury gross
claim frequency in 2008 compared to 2007           1.8% increase in claim severities for auto property damage in 2008 compared to 2007           6.5% increase in claim severities for bodily injury in 2008 compared to 2007
          unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates in 2008 compared to favorable reestimates in 2007     
     
        Factors contributing to the Allstate brand homeowners loss ratio, which includes catastrophes, increase of 29.8 points to
96.3 in 2008 from 66.5 in 2007 were the following:  
 
       46.5 point effect of catastrophe losses in 2008 compared to 19.5 point in 2007           7.2% increase in homeowner gross claim frequency,
excluding catastrophes, in 2008 compared to 2007, fueled by
weather-related claim trends           0.6% increase in claim severity, excluding catastrophes, in 2008 compared to 2007     
     
        Factors contributing to catastrophe losses increase of $1.93 billion to $3.34 billion in 2008 compared to
$1.41 billion in 2007 were the following:  
 
       $966 million and $342 million estimated losses for Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, respectively          121 other events with losses of
$2.03 billion in 2008 compared to 91 events with losses of $1.41 billion in
2007     
     
        Factors contributing to prior year reserve reestimates of $170 million unfavorable in 2008 compared to
$172 million favorable in 2007 included:  
 
       prior year reserve reestimates related to auto, homeowners and other lines in 2008 contributed $27 million
favorable, $124 million unfavorable and $55 million unfavorable, respectively, compared to prior year reserve reetimates in 2007 of $311 million favorable, $115 million
unfavorable and $23 million favorable, respectively     
     
        Property-Liability underwriting income of $164 million in 2008 compared to $2.78 billion in 2007 included
the following primary contributing factors. Underwriting income (loss), a measure not based on GAAP, is defined below.   
 
       catastrophe losses increase of $1.93 billion to $3.34 billion in 2008 compared to $1.41 billion in
2007           $170 million unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates in 2008 compared to $172 million favorable in 2007    
     
        Property-Liability investments as of December 31, 2008 were $30.84 billion, a decrease of 24.6% from
$40.91 billion as of December 31, 2007. Net investment income was $1.67 billion in 2008, a decrease of 15.1% from $1.97 billion in 2007.     
           Net realized capital losses were $1.86 billion in 2008 compared to net realized capital gains of
$1.42 billion in 2007.    
  42  

PROPERTY-LIABILITY OPERATIONS     

            Overview       Our Property-Liability operations consist of two business segments: Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages.
Allstate
Protection comprises two brands, the Allstate brand and Encompass  brand. Allstate Protection is principally engaged in the sale of personal property and casualty insurance, primarily
private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, to individuals in the United States and Canada. Discontinued Lines and Coverages includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and
results for certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. These segments are consistent with the groupings of financial information that management uses to evaluate performance and
to determine the allocation of resources.   

          Underwriting
income (loss), a measure that is not based on GAAP and is reconciled to net income on page 44, is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense
("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges, as determined using GAAP. We use this measure in our evaluation of results of operations to analyze
the profitability of the Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results. It is also an integral component of incentive compensation. It is useful for investors to evaluate
the components of income separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance. Net income is the GAAP measure most directly comparable to underwriting income (loss). Underwriting income (loss)
should not be considered as a substitute for net income and does not reflect the overall profitability of the business.   

          The
table below includes GAAP operating ratios we use to measure our profitability. We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability. They are calculated as
follows:   

Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned. Loss
ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.     
           Expense ratio the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and restructuring and related
charges to premiums earned.     
           Combined ratio the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and
restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting
income (loss) as a percentage of premiums earned.    

We
have also calculated the following impacts of specific items on the GAAP operating ratios because of the volatility of these items between fiscal periods.    

Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio the percentage of catastrophe losses included in claims and
claims expense to premiums earned. This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.     
           Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined ratio the percentage of prior year reserve reestimates
included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned. This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.     
           Effect of restructuring and related charges on combined ratio the percentage of restructuring and related
charges to premiums earned.     
           Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio the ratio of claims and claims expense and other
costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned. The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio and the
Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.    
 
  43  

Summarized
financial data, a reconciliation of underwriting income to net income and GAAP operating ratios for our Property-Liability operations are presented in the following table.   

(1)    Reserve
reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $125 million unfavorable in 2008, $127 million unfavorable in 2007 and
$223 million favorable in 2006.    
  44  

ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT     

            Overview and Strategy       The Allstate Protection segment sells primarily private passenger auto and homeowners insurance to individuals
through Allstate
Exclusive Agencies and directly through Customer Information Centers and the internet under the Allstate brand and through independent agencies under both the Allstate brand and the Encompass brand.   

The
key elements of the Allstate Protection strategy of consumer focus, innovation and loyalty are:   

Build customer loyalty     
           Increase distribution effectiveness     
           Maintain leadership in pricing sophistication     
           Provide innovative products and services     
           Extend our claims competitive advantage     
           Maintain a strong support foundation by continuing to effectively manage people, investments, technology and capital    

In
our strategy for the Allstate brand, we are seeking, through the utilization of our distribution channels, our pricing sophistication and targeted consumer marketing, to attract and
retain high lifetime value customers who will potentially provide profitability over the course of their relationship with us.   

We
maintain a comprehensive marketing approach throughout the U.S. We have aligned agency and management compensation and the overall strategies of the Allstate brand to best serve our
customers by basing certain incentives on Allstate brand profitability, PIF growth, retention, and sales of financial products. We differentiate the Allstate brand from competitors by offering a
choice of products, including Allstate  Your Choice Auto Insurance ("YCA") with options such as safe driving deductibles and a safe driving bonus, Allstate  Your Choice Home
("YCH") with options such as a claim-free bonus and greater ability to tailor insurance coverage and Allstate Blue SM , our non-standard auto product with features
such as a loyalty bonus and roadside assistance coverage.   

          Our
strategy for the Encompass brand includes enhancing our pricing and product offering by applying pricing sophistication to the Encompass Edge product, increasing distribution
effectiveness and improving agency technology interfaces to support profitable growth.   

          Our
pricing and underwriting are designed to enhance both our competitive position and profit potential, and produce a broader range of premiums that is more refined than the range
generated by the standard/non-standard model. Pricing sophistication which underlies our Strategic Risk Management program uses a number of risk evaluation factors including, to the extent
legally permissible, insurance scoring based on information that is obtained from credit reports. We continue to expand the number of price points with successive rating program releases.   

          Substantially
all of new and approximately 88% of renewal business written for Allstate brand auto are rated using our pricing sophistication methods. For Allstate brand homeowners,
approximately 94% of new and 60% of renewal business written are rated using pricing sophistication methods. For Allstate brand auto and homeowners business, our results indicate that over time, use
of these methods has improved our mix of customers towards those who we consider high lifetime value that generally have better retention and more favorable loss experience.   

The
Allstate Protection segment also includes a separate organization called Emerging Businesses which is comprised of Small Business ("Commercial"), Consumer Household ("Specialty
Product Lines"), Allstate Dealer Services ("Allstate Credit Division") and Allstate Roadside Services ("Allstate Motor Club and Partnership Marketing Group"). Consumer Household and Allstate Roadside
Services accounted for $1.55 billion or 62.7% and $187 million or 7.6% of Emerging Businesses premiums written in 2008, respectively. We expect to accelerate growth in
high-value areas of Emerging Businesses, including Consumer Household and Allstate Roadside Services, during 2009.   

          We
are pursuing improvements in the overall customer experience through actions targeted to increase customer satisfaction and retention. These programs are designed around establishing
customer service expectations and customer relationship building. Our claims strategy focuses on delivering fast, fair and consistent claim service while achieving loss cost management and customer
satisfaction.   

  45  

We
continue to enhance technology to integrate our distribution channels, improve customer service, facilitate the introduction of new products and services and reduce infrastructure
costs related to supporting agencies and handling claims. These actions and others are designed to optimize the effectiveness of our distribution and service channels by increasing the productivity of
the Allstate brand's exclusive agencies and our direct channel.   

          We
continue to manage our property catastrophe exposure in order to provide our shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the
variability of our earnings, while providing protection to our customers. Our property business includes personal homeowners, commercial property and other property lines. At December 31, 2008,
we continue to be within our goal to have no more than a 1% likelihood of exceeding our expected annual aggregate catastrophe losses by $2 billion, net of reinsurance, based on modeled
assumptions and applications currently available. The use of different assumptions and updates to industry models could materially change the projected loss.   

          Property
catastrophe exposure management includes purchasing reinsurance in areas that have known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and other
catastrophes. We are working for changes in the regulatory environment, including fewer restrictions on underwriting, recognizing the need for and improving appropriate risk based pricing and
promoting the creation of government sponsored, privately funded solutions for large catastrophes. While the actions that we take will be primarily focused on reducing the catastrophe exposure in our
property business, we also consider their impact on our ability to market our auto lines.   

Pricing
of property products is typically intended to establish returns that we deem acceptable over a long-term period. Losses, including losses from catastrophic events and
weather-related losses (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze losses not meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe) are accrued on an occurrence basis within the policy period. Therefore,
in any reporting period, loss experience from catastrophic events and weather-related losses may contribute to negative or positive underwriting performance relative to the expectations we
incorporated into the products' pricing. Additionally, property products are more capital intensive than other personal lines products.   

Premiums written   , an operating measure, is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period. Premiums earned is a
GAAP measure. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the
unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Since the Allstate brand policy periods are typically 6 months for auto
and 12 months for homeowners, and the Encompass standard auto and homeowners policy periods are typically 12 months and non-standard auto policy periods are typically
6 months, rate changes will generally be recognized in premiums earned over a period of 6 to 24 months. During this period, premiums written at a higher rate will cause an increase in
the balance of unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

          The
following table shows the unearned premium balance at December 31 and the timeframe in which we expect to recognize these premiums as earned.   

(1)    Other
personal lines include commercial lines, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.    
  46  

A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

(1)    Year
ended December 31, 2008 includes $44 million in unearned premiums related to June 27, 2008 acquisition of Partnership Marketing
Group. Year ended December 31, 2006 includes the transfer at January 1, 2006 of $152 million in unearned premiums to Property-Liability related to the loan protection business
previously managed by Allstate Financial.    

          Premiums written by brand are shown in the following table.   

(1)    2007
includes the impact from the fourth quarter 2007 discontinuation and reinstatement of mandatory personal injury protection in the state of Florida.    

          Premiums earned by brand are shown in the following table.   

Premium operating measures and statistics that are used to analyze the business are calculated and described below. Measures and statistics presented for Allstate brand exclude Allstate
Canada, loan protection and specialty auto.    

PIF: Policy counts are based on items rather than customers. A multi-car customer would generate multiple item
(policy) counts, even if all cars were insured under one policy.     
           Average premium-gross written: Gross premiums written divided by issued item count. Gross premiums written do not include
the impacts from mid-term premium adjustments, ceded reinsurance premiums, or premium refund accruals. Allstate brand average gross premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each
line, which is 6 months for standard and non-standard auto and 12 months for homeowners. Encompass brand average gross premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each
line, which is 12 months for standard auto and homeowners and 6 months for non-standard auto.    
 
  47  

Renewal ratio: Renewal policies issued during the period, based on contract effective dates, divided by the total policies
issued 6 months prior for standard and non-standard auto (12 months prior for Encompass brand standard auto) or 12 months prior for homeowners.    
           New issued applications: Item counts of automobiles or homeowners insurance applications for insurance policies that were
issued during the period. Does not include automobiles that are added by existing customers.    

Standard auto premiums written    totaled $16.94 billion in 2008, a decrease of 1.3% from $17.16 billion in 2007, following a
1.9% increase in 2007 from $16.84 billion in 2006.   

(1)    Policy
term is six months for Allstate brand and twelve months for Encompass brand.
      (2)    Premium
operating measures and statistics exclude the discontinuation of a large national broker arrangement.    

          Allstate brand standard auto premiums written totaled $15.92 billion in 2008, a decrease of 0.7% from $16.04 billion in 2007,
following a 2.1% increase in 2007 from $15.70 billion in 2006. Contributing to the Allstate brand standard auto premiums written decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 were the
following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 due to a lower renewal ratio and lower
new business production     
           7.5% decrease in new issued applications on a countrywide basis to 1,807 thousand in 2008 from
1,954 thousand in 2007     
           increase in average gross premium in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to rate changes, partially offset by deductible
changes     
           decline in the renewal ratio in 2008 compared to 2007    

Our
Allstate brand standard auto growth strategy includes actions such as the continued rollout of YCA policy options, enhanced marketing, the continued refinement of our pricing
sophistication, and distribution effectiveness, while recognizing that the impact of catastrophe management actions on cross-sell opportunities and competitive pressures in certain markets
may lessen their success.   

          Allstate
brand standard auto premiums written increased in 2007 compared to 2006. Contributing to the Allstate brand standard auto premiums written increase in 2007 compared to 2006 were
the following:   

increase in PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 primarily due to the result of growth
in policies available for renewal     
           1.5% decrease in new issued applications on a countrywide basis to 1,954 thousand in 2007 from
1,983 thousand in 2006     
           increase in average gross premium in 2007 compared to 2006; Standard auto average gross premium was impacted by rate
changes, geographic and product shifts in the mix of business and changes in customer preferences     
           decline in the renewal ratio in 2007 compared to 2006 due to competitive conditions and the impact of our property
catastrophe management actions on cross-sell opportunities    

Encompass
brand standard auto premiums written totaled $1.03 billion in 2008, a decrease of 8.9% from $1.13 billion in 2007, following a 1.1% decrease in 2007 from
$1.14 billion in 2006. Contributing to the Encompass brand standard auto premiums written decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 were the following:   

the discontinuation of a large national broker arrangement; Encompass brand standard auto premiums written excluding the
terminated national broker's business decreased 3.3% to $1.01 billion in 2008 from $1.04 billion in 2007     
           decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 driven by less policies available to
renew and lower retention    
 
  48  

decrease in average gross premium in 2008 compared to 2007 due to a shift in the mix of business toward policies with
basic coverages and fewer features, partially offset by rate changes    

Decreases
are expected in Encompass brand standard auto PIF as profit improvement actions are implemented. Some of these actions are improving business quality by changing risk
management policy, terminating relationships with certain agents and rate changes. Encompass brand strategy includes targeting high quality business including the package market and the continued
rollout of Encompass Edge, which provides more segmented pricing of auto and homeowners coverage.   

          Encompass
brand standard auto premiums written decreased in 2007 compared to 2006. Contributing to the Encompass brand standard auto premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006
were the following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 due to a decline in the policies
available to renew more than offsetting new business production     
           decrease in average gross premium in 2007 compared to 2006 due to a change in the mix of business to policies with basic
coverages and fewer features    

Rate
increases that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued. The following table shows the net rate changes that were approved
for standard auto during 2008 and 2007. These rate changes do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing business in a state.   

(1)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a percentage of total countrywide prior
year-end premiums written.
      (2)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a percentage of total prior year-end
premiums written in those states.
      (3)    Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for standard auto totaled $223 million in 2008 compared to
$208 million in 2007.
      (4)    Excludes
the impact of rate changes in the state of Florida relating to the discontinuation and eventual reinstatement of mandatory personal injury
protection.
      (5)    Excluding
the impact of a 15.9% rate reduction in California related to an order effective in April 2008, the Allstate brand standard auto rate change is
6.0% on a state specific basis and 3.0% on a countrywide basis in 2008.    

             Non-standard auto premiums written    totaled $1.06 billion in 2008, a decrease of
15.2% from $1.25 billion in 2007, following a 15.7% decrease in 2007 from $1.48 billion in 2006.   

Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written totaled $1.02 billion in 2008, a decrease of 13.7% from $1.18 billion
in 2007, following a 14.9% decrease in 2007 from $1.39 billion in 2006. Contributing to the Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 were
the following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007 due to new business production that
was insufficient to offset declines in the renewal ratio and polices available to renew     
           10.1% increase in new issued applications to 328 thousand in 2008 from 298 thousand in 2007 due to the
continued rollout and momentum of our Allstate Blue SM  product     
           increase in average gross premium in 2008 compared to 2007 due to changes in the mix of customer segments resulting from
the implementation of Allstate Blue     
           decrease in the renewal ratio in 2008 compared to 2007    
 
  49  

Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written decreased in 2007 compared to 2006. Contributing to the Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written
decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 were the following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 due to new business production
insufficient to offset the decline in polices available to renew     
           9.6% increase in new issued applications in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to the introduction of our Allstate Blue
product     
           comparable auto average gross premium in 2007 to 2006    

Encompass
brand non-standard auto premiums written totaled $40 million in 2008, a decrease of 41.2% from $68 million in 2007, following a 27.7% decrease in 2007
from $94 million in 2006. Contributing to the Encompass brand non-standard auto premiums written decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 were the following:   

decline in policies available to renew     
           discontinued writing of new business in all states except for Pennsylvania     
           decrease in average gross premium in 2008 compared to 2007 due to geographic shifts in the mix of business.    

Encompass
brand non-standard auto premiums written decreased in 2007 compared to 2006. Contributing to the Encompass brand non-standard auto premiums written
decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 were the following:   

declines in PIF due to new business that was insufficient to offset the decline in polices available to renew    
           decrease in average gross premium due to geographic shifts in the mix of business, partially offset by rate changes in
specific markets    

Rate
increases that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued. The following table shows the net rate changes that were approved
for non-standard auto during 2008 and 2007. These rate changes do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing business in a state.   

(1)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a percentage of total countrywide prior
year-end premiums written.
      (2)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a percentage of total prior year-end
premiums written in those states.
      (3)    Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for non-standard auto totaled $3 million in 2008 compared to
$20 million in 2007.
      (4)    Includes
Washington D.C.
      (5)    Excludes
the impact of rate changes in the state of Florida relating to the discontinuation and eventual reinstatement of mandatory personal injury
protection.    

             Homeowners premiums written    totaled $6.11 billion in 2008, a decrease of 2.2% from
$6.25 billion in 2007, following a 4.1% decrease in 2007 from $6.52 billion in 2006. Excluding the cost of catastrophe reinsurance, premiums written declined 3.4% in 2008 compared to
2007. For a more detailed discussion on reinsurance, see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A and Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.   

(1)    Premium
operating measures and statistics exclude the discontinuation of a large national broker arrangement.    
  50  

Allstate brand homeowners premiums written totaled $5.64 billion in 2008, a decrease of 1.3% from $5.71 billion in 2007, following a
3.6% decrease in 2007 from $5.93 billion in 2006. Contributing to the Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 were the following:   

decrease in PIF due to lower new issued applications and policies available to renew     
           26.0% decrease in new issued applications to 594 thousand in 2008 from 803 thousand in 2007    
           increase in average gross premium in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to higher average renewal premiums related to
increases in insured value and approved rate changes, including those taken for our net cost of reinsurance, partially offset by a shift in geographic mix as our catastrophe management actions reduce
premiums written in areas with generally higher average gross premiums and state insurance department initiated rate decreases in California and Texas     
           increase in the renewal ratio in 2008 compared to 2007     
           decrease in the net cost of our catastrophe reinsurance program    

Actions
taken to manage our catastrophe exposure in areas with known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and other catastrophes have had an impact
on our new business writings for homeowners insurance, as demonstrated by the decline in Allstate brand homeowners new issued applications.   

          Allstate
brand homeowners premiums written decreased in 2007 compared to 2006. Contributing to the Allstate brand homeowners premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 were the
following:   

increases in ceded reinsurance premiums     
           decrease in PIF due to lower new issued applications and renewal ratio     
           18.6% decrease in new issued applications to 803 thousand in 2007 from 987 thousand in 2006    
           increase in average gross premium in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to higher average renewal premiums related to
increases in insured value and approved rate changes, including our net cost of reinsurance, partially offset by a shift in geographic mix as our catastrophe management actions reduce premiums written
in areas with generally higher average premiums    

Our
strategy to reduce risk in catastrophe prone areas will continue to impact new issued applications and the renewal ratio in 2009, although to a lesser degree than in 2008 and 2007.
Examples of the impact of this strategy include our decision to cease writing new homeowners applications in California, to cease offering renewals on certain homeowners insurance policies in certain
down-state locations in New York and to reduce PIF in coastal management areas (southern and eastern states) thereby lowering hurricane exposures. This
includes Texas and Louisiana where the combination of reduced PIF and ceded wind coverage in the coastal regions reduced our loss exposures to wind by 43.5% and 34.9%, respectively, below 2006 levels.   

          Encompass
brand homeowners premiums written totaled $471 million in 2008, a decrease of 12.5% from $538 million in 2007, following a 8.7% decrease in 2007 from
$589 million in 2006. Contributing to the Encompass brand homeowners premiums written decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 were the following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2008 compared to December 31, 2007, primarily due to our catastrophe
management actions in certain markets     
           the discontinuation of a large national broker arrangement; Encompass brand homeowners premiums written excluding the
terminated national broker's business decreased 8.3% to $464 million in 2008 from $506 million in 2007     
           increase in average gross premium in 2008 compared to 2007 due to rate actions including those taken for our net cost of
reinsurance    

Encompass
brand homeowners premiums written decreased in 2007 compared to 2006. Contributing to the Encompass brand homeowners premiums written decrease in 2007 compared to 2006 were the
following:   

increases in ceded reinsurance premiums     
           decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 partially due to a decline in the
renewal ratio in 2007 compared to 2006, primarily due to our catastrophe management actions in certain markets     
           increase in average gross premium in 2007 compared to 2006 due to rate actions taken in the current year, including those
taken for our net cost of reinsurance, and increases in insured value    
 
  51  

Rate
increases that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued. The following table shows the net rate changes that were approved
for homeowners during 2008 and 2007, including rate changes approved based on our net cost of reinsurance. For a discussion relating to reinsurance costs, see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims
Expense Reserves section of the MD A and Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements.   

(1)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a percentage of total countrywide prior
year-end premiums written.
      (2)    Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a percentage of total prior year-end
premiums written in those states.
      (3)    Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for homeowners totaled $(32) million in 2008 compared to
$244 million in 2007.
      (4)    Includes
Washington D.C.
      (5)    Excluding
the impact of a 3.0% rate reduction in Texas and a 28.5% rate reduction in California related to resolutions reached in 2008, the Allstate brand
homeowners rate change is 5.8% on a state specific basis and 3.2% on a countrywide basis in 2008.    

             Underwriting results    are shown in the following table.   

(1)    During
2008, $45 million of IBNR losses were reclassified from standard auto to other personal lines to be consistent with the recording of excess
liability policies' premiums and losses.    

          Allstate Protection experienced underwriting income of $189 million during 2008 compared to $2.84 billion 2007. The decrease was
primarily due to increased catastrophe losses, increases in auto severities, increases in homeowners loss frequencies and unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates in the current year compared to
favorable prior year reserve reestimates in 2007, partially offset by favorable auto loss frequencies and higher standard auto average premium. Current year claim severity expectations continue to be
consistent with relevant indices. For further discussion and quantification of the impact of reserve estimates and assumptions, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and
Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves sections of the MD A.   

  52  

Allstate
Protection generated underwriting income of $2.84 billion during 2007 compared to $4.64 billion in 2006. The decrease was primarily due to lower favorable prior
year reserve reestimates, higher catastrophe losses, increases in auto and homeowners claim frequency excluding catastrophes, higher current year claim severity and increases in the cost of
catastrophe reinsurance.   

             Catastrophe losses    in 2008 were $3.34 billion and include estimates of losses for Hurricanes Ike and Gustav among other events.
This compares to catastrophe losses in 2007 of $1.41 billion. Hurricane Ike is expected to be among the top three costliest U.S. hurricanes along with Hurricane Katrina of 2005 and Hurricane
Andrew of 1992. Losses from Hurricane Ike were incurred in multiple states. Hurricane Ike losses in Texas were estimated to be $666 million, net of reinsurance, and losses in all other states,
which primarily included losses in Ohio and Kentucky, were estimated to be $300 million. Hurricane Gustav is also expected to be among the top 10 costliest U.S. hurricanes. Catastrophe loss
estimates include losses for approximately 173 thousand and 81 thousand claims for Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, respectively, on our auto, homeowners, commercial and other insurance
products. These estimated claim counts include 129 thousand and 66 thousand for Hurricanes Ike and Gustav, respectively, that have been reported as of January 16, 2009.   

Catastrophe
losses in 2008 also include assessments totaling $75 million from the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") for our estimated share of losses for Hurricanes
Dolly and Ike. We expect to recover $35 million of the assessment relating to Hurricane Ike through premium tax credits over the next five years, with the remaining $31 million from Ike
eligible for cession under our reinsurance program.   

          We
define a "catastrophe" as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an
event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event.
Catastrophes are caused by various natural events including high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, and volcanoes. We are also exposed to
man-made catastrophic events, such as certain acts of terrorism or industrial accidents. The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted.   

          The
following table presents our 2008 catastrophe losses related to events that occurred by the size of the event.   

In
the years 1995 through 2008, we incurred catastrophe losses of $21.63 billion related to 912 events. Of these total losses, 41.9% related to 11 events with losses
greater than $250 million per event, 8.4% related to 12 events with losses between $100 million and $250 million per event, 11.1% related to 35 events with losses between
$50 million and $100 million per event, and 38.6% related to 854 events with losses less than $50 million per event. Catastrophe losses in the period 2003 through 2008 amounted to
$15.19 billion or 70.2% of the total losses. Catastrophe losses greater than $50 million in the period 2003 through 2008 amounted to 37 events and $11.25 billion or 52.0% of the
total losses. There were no catastrophe losses greater than $100 million incurred in 2006.   

  53  

The following table presents our catastrophe losses incurred by the type of event.   

Combined ratio       Loss ratios are a measure of profitability. Loss ratios by product, and expense and combined ratios by brand, are shown
in the
following table. These ratios are defined on page 43.   

(1)    During
2008, $45 million of IBNR losses were reclassified from standard auto to other personal lines to be consistent with the recording of excess
liability policies' premiums and losses.    

             Standard auto loss ratio    for the Allstate brand increased 2.3 points in 2008 compared to 2007 due
to increased catastrophe losses, unfavorable reserve reestimates in the current year compared to favorable reserve reestimates in the prior year and higher claim severities, partially offset by lower
claim frequencies. Excluding catastrophes, the underlying inflationary increase in severity was in part offset by declines in frequency, reflecting a continuation of a long-term decline in
frequency and a decrease in miles driven. Standard auto loss ratio for the Encompass brand increased 2.1 points in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily driven by higher claim severities and increased
catastrophe losses. Standard auto loss ratio for the Allstate brand increased 4.3 points in 2007 compared to 2006 due to lower favorable reserve reestimates related to prior years, and higher claim
frequency and claim severity excluding catastrophes, partially offset by higher premiums earned. Standard auto loss ratio for the Encompass brand increased 4.2 points in 2007 compared to 2006 due to
lower favorable reserve reestimates related to prior years.   

  54  

Non-standard auto loss ratio    for the Allstate brand increased 7.4 points in 2008 compared to 2007 due to lower favorable
reserve reestimates related to prior years, increased catastrophe losses and higher claim severities, partially offset by lower claim frequencies. Non-standard auto loss ratio for the
Encompass brand increased 13.9 points in 2008 compared to 2007. Non-standard auto loss ratio for the Allstate brand decreased 1.2 points in 2007 compared to 2006 due to favorable reserve
reestimates related to prior years. Non-standard auto loss ratio for the Encompass brand decreased 1.5 points in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily driven by lower claim frequency.   

             Homeowners loss ratio    for the Allstate brand increased 29.8 points to 96.3 in 2008 from 66.5 in 2007 due to higher catastrophe losses.
Homeowners loss ratio for the Encompass brand increased 21.8 points to 76.4 in 2008 from
54.6 in 2007 due to higher catastrophe losses. Homeowners loss ratio for the Allstate brand increased 16.1 points in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher catastrophe losses, the absence of favorable
non-catastrophe reserve reestimates related to prior years, higher claim severity, higher ceded earned premium for catastrophe reinsurance, and higher claim frequency excluding
catastrophes. Homeowners loss ratio for the Encompass brand decreased 4.0 points in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to lower catastrophe losses.   

             Expense ratio    for Allstate Protection increased 0.1 points in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to lower earned premiums, increases in
the net cost of benefits due to unfavorable investment results, and charges for the write-off of capitalized computer software. Expense ratio for Allstate Protection decreased 0.1 points
in 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to lower restructuring charges offset by increased spending on advertising and investments in marketing and technology for product and service innovations.   

          The
expense ratio for Encompass brand increased 1.2 points in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to lower earned premiums as well as increased state fund assessments and cost associated
with the discontinuation of a large national broker arrangement.   

          The
impact of specific costs and expenses on the expense ratio are included in the following table.   

The
expense ratio for the standard auto and homeowners businesses generally approximates the total Allstate Protection expense ratio. The expense ratio for the non-standard
auto business generally is lower than the total Allstate Protection expense ratio due to lower agent commission rates and higher average premiums for non-standard auto as compared to
standard auto. The Encompass brand DAC amortization is higher on average than Allstate brand DAC amortization due to higher commission rates.   

            DAC       We establish a DAC asset for costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring business, principally agents' remuneration,
 premium
taxes, certain underwriting costs and direct mail solicitation expenses. For the Allstate Protection business, DAC is amortized to income over the period in which premiums are earned.   

          The
balance of DAC for each product type at December 31, is included in the following table.   

Catastrophe Management     

            Historical Catastrophe Experience       Since the beginning of 1992, the average annual impact of catastrophes on our Property-Liability loss
ratio was 7.5
points. However, this average does not reflect the impact of some of the more significant actions we have taken to limit our catastrophe exposure. Consequently, we think it is useful   

  55  

to
consider the impact of catastrophes after excluding losses that are now partially or substantially covered by the California Earthquake Authority ("CEA"), Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund
("FHCF") or placed with a third party, such as hurricane coverage in Hawaii. The average annual impact of all catastrophes, excluding losses from
Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki and losses from California earthquakes, on our Property-Liability loss ratio was 6.2 points since the beginning of 1992.   

Comparatively,
the average annual impact of catastrophes on the homeowners loss ratio for the years 1992 through 2008 is shown in the following table.   

Over
time, we have limited our aggregate insurance exposure to catastrophe losses in certain regions of the country that are subject to high levels of natural catastrophes. Limitations
include our participation in various state facilities, such as the CEA, which provides insurance for California earthquake losses; the FHCF, which provides reimbursements on certain qualifying Florida
hurricane losses; and other state facilities, such as wind pools. However, the impact of these actions may be diminished by the growth in insured values, the effect of state insurance laws and
regulations. In addition, in various states we are required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations that provide insurance coverage to
individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because of our participation in these and other state facilities such as wind pools, we may be
exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities and/or to assessments from these facilities.   

          In
2006 and 2007, both PIF and the renewal ratio were suppressed by our catastrophe management actions such as our decision to discontinue offering coverage by Allstate Floridian
Insurance Company and its subsidiaries ("Allstate Floridian") on approximately 226,000 property policies as part of renewal rights and reinsurance arrangements with Royal Palm Insurance Company
("Royal Palm") entered into in 2006 and 2007 ("Royal Palm 1 and 2"). Approximately 81% of the policies involved in Royal Palm 1 and 2 expired in 2007 and therefore negatively influenced the PIF and
renewal ratio.   

          We
continue to take actions to maintain an appropriate level of exposure to catastrophic events, including the following:   

We have reduced property PIF in coastal management areas thereby lowering hurricane exposures. This includes Texas and
Louisiana where the combination of reduced property PIF and ceded wind coverage in the coastal regions reduced our loss exposures to wind by 43.5% and 34.9%, respectively, below 2006 levels.    
           We have increased our utilization of wind storm pools, including in Texas where we are ceding all wind exposure related to
insured property located in all wind pool eligible areas along the coast including the Galveston Islands.     
           We have ceased writing new homeowners business in California. We will continue to renew current policyholders and have a
renewal ratio of approximately 90% in California.     
           Encompass Floridian Insurance and Encompass Floridian Indemnity Company filed a formal notification with the Florida
Office of Insurance Regulation to discontinue providing property insurance in the State of Florida.     
           We ceased offering renewals on certain homeowners insurance policies in New York in certain down-state
geographical locations. The level of non-renewals in New York is governed by state statute.    
 
  56  

Hurricanes     

          We consider the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to generally be major metropolitan centers in counties
along the eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. Generally, the average premium on a property policy near these coasts is greater than other areas. However, average premiums are not considered
commensurate with the inherent risk of loss.   

          We
have addressed our risk of hurricane loss by, among other actions, purchasing reinsurance for specific states and on a countrywide basis for our personal lines property insurance in
areas most exposed to hurricanes (for further information on our reinsurance program see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD  limiting personal homeowners
new business writings in coastal areas in southern and eastern states; not offering continuing coverage on certain policies in coastal counties in certain states; and entering into Royal Palm 1 and 2.
Our actions are expected to continue during 2009 in northeastern and certain other hurricane prone states.   

    Earthquakes     

          During 2006, we began taking actions countrywide to significantly reduce our exposure to the risk of earthquake losses. These actions
included purchasing reinsurance on a countrywide basis and in the state of Kentucky; no longer offering new optional earthquake coverage in most states; removing optional earthquake coverage upon
renewal in most states; and entering into arrangements in many states to make earthquake coverage available through other insurers for new and renewal business.   

          Actions
taken to reduce our exposure from optional earthquake coverage are substantially complete. We expect to retain approximately 40,000 PIF due to regulatory and other reasons. We
also will continue to have exposure to earthquake risk on certain policies and coverages that do not specifically exclude coverage for earthquake losses, including our auto policies, and to fires
following earthquakes. Allstate policyholders in the state of California are offered coverage through the CEA, a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage
for earthquake damage. Allstate is subject to assessments from the CEA under certain circumstances as explained in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    Fires Following Earthquakes     

          Actions taken related to our risk of loss from fires following earthquakes include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in
California and purchasing additional reinsurance on a countrywide basis excluding Florida and on a statewide basis in California and Kentucky.   

    Wildfires     

          Actions we are taking to reduce our risk of loss from wildfires include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in certain states
and including California wildfire losses in our 2008 aggregate excess reinsurance agreement. Catastrophe losses related to the Southern California wildfires that occurred during 2008 and 2007 totaled
$166 million and $350 million, respectively.   

    Reinsurance     

          We expect to renew expiring coverages including the coverage expiring on programs placed for 2 years (Aggregate excess),
3 years (various state specific) and 1 year (South-East and Florida).   

          We
anticipate purchasing coverage that has similar retentions and limits as our expiring program with either retentions and limits or premiums being subject to re-measurement
for exposure differences from estimates initially provided to reinsurers.   

          Our
program will be in place by June 1, 2009. We expect to bind coverage in March 2009, except for certain coverage in Florida which we expect to bind by June 1, 2009. We
anticipate reporting the details at that time.   

          We
estimate that the total annualized cost of our catastrophe reinsurance program for the year beginning June 1, 2009, including the new Pennsylvania (up to $100 million
limit, $100 million retention) and Texas/Louisiana (up to $150 million limit, $500 million retention) agreements, to be within 10% of our expiring annualized reinsurance contract
premiums of $613 million. We continue to attempt to capture our reinsurance cost in premium rates as allowed by state regulatory authorities.   

  57  

Allstate Protection Outlook     

Allstate Protection premiums written in 2009 are anticipated to be lower than 2008 levels due to continued emphasis on
preserving auto insurance margins by providing customer-focused products and services. Short-term growth will be limited reflecting a transition to a value-based strategy in the
competitive environment as consumers buy fewer autos and choose lower product coverages, and reductions of catastrophe exposure.     
           We expect that volatility in the level of catastrophes we experience will contribute to variation in our underwriting
results; however, this volatility will be somewhat mitigated due to our catastrophe management actions, including purchases of reinsurance.     
           We plan to continue to study the efficiencies of our operations and cost structure for additional areas where costs may be
reduced.    

DISCONTINUED LINES AND COVERAGES SEGMENT     

            Overview       The Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for
certain
commercial and other businesses in run-off. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is reported in this segment. We have assigned management of this
segment to a designated group of professionals with expertise in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification and reinsurance collection. As part of its responsibilities,
this group is also regularly engaged in policy buybacks, settlements and reinsurance assumed and ceded commutations.   

          Summarized
underwriting results for the years ended December 31, are presented in the following table.   

Underwriting
losses of $25 million in 2008 primarily related to an $8 million unfavorable reestimate of asbestos reserves and a $13 million unfavorable reestimate of
other reserves as a result of the annual third quarter 2008 grounds up reserve review, partially offset by a $16 million reduction of our bad debt allowance for future uncollectible reinsurance
recoverables. The cost of administering claims settlements totaled $13 million, $14 million and $19 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.   

          Underwriting
loss of $54 million in 2007 primarily related to a $63 million reestimate of environmental reserves and a $6 million reestimate of asbestos reserves as
a result of the annual third quarter 2007 grounds up reserve review, partially offset by a $46 million reduction in the reinsurance recoverable valuation allowance related to
Equitas Limited's improved financial position as a result of its reinsurance coverage with National Indemnity Company.   

          Underwriting
loss of $139 million in 2006 primarily related to an $86 million reestimate of asbestos reserves, a $10 million reestimate of environmental reserves and
a $26 million increase in the allowance for future uncollectible reinsurance recoverables.   

See
the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A for a more detailed discussion.   

    Discontinued Lines and Coverages Outlook     

We may continue to experience asbestos and/or environmental losses in the future. These losses could be due to the
potential adverse impact of new information relating to new and additional claims or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as litigation or legislative, judicial
and regulatory actions. Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for environmental site cleanup from the new administration. Because of our annual "grounds up"
review, we believe that our reserves are appropriately established based on available information, technology, laws and regulations.    
 
  58  

We continue to be encouraged that the pace of industry asbestos claim activity has slowed, perhaps reflecting various
state legislative and judicial actions with respect to medical criteria and increased legal scrutiny of the legitimacy of claims.    

PROPERTY-LIABILITY INVESTMENT RESULTS     

             Net investment income    decreased 15.1% in 2008 when compared to 2007, after increasing
6.4% in 2007 when compared to 2006. The 2008 decrease was due to decreased partnership income and lower average asset balances reflecting dividends paid by Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC") to its
parent, The Allstate Corporation (the "Corporation") and capital contributions to Allstate Life Insurance Company ("ALIC")
and reduced portfolio yields. The 2007 increase was principally due to increased partnership income and increased portfolio yields.   

          Property-Liability
net investment income in 2009 is anticipated to be lower than 2008 levels due to lower average asset balances and reduced portfolio yields.   

          The
following table presents the average pre-tax investment yields for the year ended December 31.   

(1)    Pre-tax
yield is calculated as investment income (including dividend income in the case of equity securities) divided by the average of the
investment balances at the beginning and end of period and interim quarters.
      (2)    Amortized
cost basis is used to calculate the average investment balance for fixed income securities and mortgage loans. Cost is used for equity securities.
Cost or the equity method of accounting basis is used for limited partnership interests.
      (3)    Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, income from limited partnerships accounted for on the equity method of accounting ("EMA LP") is reported in
realized capital gains and losses and is therefore excluded from the determination of pre-tax investment yields on limited partnership interests. EMA LP income for periods prior to
the fourth quarter of 2008 is reported in net investment income and included in the determination of pre-tax investment yields on limited partnership interests.    

             Net realized capital gains and losses, after-tax    were $(1.21) billion of net realized
capital losses in 2008 compared to net realized capital gains of $915 million in 2007 and $227 million in 2006. The following table presents the factors driving the net realized capital
gains and losses results.   

(1)    To
conform to the current period presentation, certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified.
      (2)    Impairment
write-downs reflect issue specific other than temporary declines in fair value, including instances where we could not reasonably assert that the
recovery period would be temporary.
      (3)    Change
in intent write-downs reflects instances where we cannot assert a positive intent to hold until recovery.
      (4)    Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, income from EMA LP is reported in realized capital gains and losses. EMA LP income for periods prior
to the fourth quarter of 2008 is reported in net investment income.    

          For a further discussion of net realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of the MD A.   

  59  

PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE RESERVES     

          Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of property-liability claims and claims expense
reserves. For a description of our reserve process, see Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements and for a further description of our reserving policies and the potential variability in
our reserve estimates, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD A. These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR
claims, as of the reporting date.   

          The
facts and circumstances leading to our quarterly reestimates of reserves relate to revisions to the development factors used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end
of a reporting period until all claims have been paid. Reestimates occur because actual losses are likely different than that predicted by the estimated development factors used in prior reserve
estimates. At December 31, 2008, the impact of a reserve reestimation corresponding to a one percent increase or decrease in net reserves would be a decrease or increase of approximately
$112 million in net income.   

          The
table below shows total net reserves as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 for Allstate brand, Encompass brand and Discontinued Lines and Coverages lines of business.   

The
table below shows reserves, net of reinsurance, representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at the beginning of years 2008, 2007 and 2006, and the
effect of reestimates in each year.   

(1)    Favorable
reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.    
  60  

Allstate Protection     

          The table below shows Allstate Protection net reserves representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at
the beginning of years 2008, 2007 and 2006, and the effect of reestimates in each year.   

Auto
reserve reestimates in 2008 were primarily the result of a $45 million reclassification of IBNR losses from standard auto to other personal lines to be consistent with the
recording of excess liability policies' premiums and
losses. Auto reserve reestimates in 2007 were primarily the result of auto severity development that was better than expected. Auto reserve reestimates in 2006 were primarily the result of auto injury
severity development that was better than expected and late reported loss development that was better than expected, primarily due to lower frequency trends in recent years.   

Unfavorable
homeowners reserve reestimates in 2008 were primarily due to litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane Katrina.
Unfavorable homeowners reserve reestimates in 2007 were primarily due to catastrophe reserve reestimates attributable to increased claim expense reserves primarily for 2005 events and increased loss
reserves including reopened claims arising from litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane Katrina. Homeowners reserve reestimates in 2006 were
primarily due to favorable catastrophe reestimates attributable to lower loss estimates for additional living expenses and mold for Hurricane Katrina, late reported loss development that was better
than expected and injury severity development that was better than expected.   

          Other
personal lines reserve reestimates in 2008 were primarily the result of a $45 million reclassification of IBNR losses from standard auto to other personal lines to be
consistent with the recording of excess liability policies' premiums and losses. Other personal lines reserve reestimates in 2007 were primarily the result of claim severity development different than
anticipated in previous estimates. Other personal lines reserve reestimates in 2006 were primarily due to favorable catastrophe reestimates and the result of claim severity development different than
anticipated in previous estimates.   

  61  

Pending,
new and closed claims for Allstate Protection, for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

We
believe the net loss reserves for Allstate Protection exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and regulations.   

  62  

The
following tables reflect the accident years to which the reestimates shown above are applicable for Allstate brand, Encompass brand and Discontinued Lines and Coverages lines of
business. Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in these tables in parentheses.   

    2008 Prior year reserve reestimates     

2007 Prior year reserve reestimates     

2006 Prior year reserve reestimates     

Allstate brand    prior year reserve reestimates were $155 million unfavorable in 2008 and $167 million and
$1.09 billion favorable in 2007 and 2006, respectively. In 2008, this was primarily due to litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane
Katrina. In 2007, this was primarily due to auto severity development that was better than expected, partially offset by unfavorable reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses. In 2006, this was
primarily due to auto injury severity development and late reported loss development that was better than expected and changes in reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses which were favorable in
2006.   

          These
trends are primarily responsible for revisions to loss development factors, as previously described, used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end of a reporting
period until all claims have been paid. Because these trends cause actual losses to differ from those predicted by the estimated development factors used in prior reserve estimates, reserves are
revised as actuarial studies validate new trends based on the indications of updated development factor calculations.   

  63  

The impact of these reestimates on the Allstate brand underwriting income is shown in the table below.   

Encompass brand       Reserve reestimates in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were related to lower than anticipated claim settlement costs.   

          The
impact of these reestimates on the Encompass brand underwriting (loss) income is shown in the table below.   

Discontinued Lines and Coverages       We conduct an annual review in the third quarter of each year to evaluate and establish asbestos,
environmental and
other discontinued lines reserves. Reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best practices and assuming no change in the
regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive "grounds up" methodology determines reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of exposure (e.g. claim activity,
potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by policyholders.   

Reserve
reestimates for the Discontinued Lines and Coverages, as shown in the table below, were increased primarily for other discontinued lines in 2008, environmental in 2007 and for
asbestos in 2006.   

Reserve additions for asbestos in 2008, 2007 and 2006, totaling $8 million, $17 million and $86 million, respectively, were
primarily for products-related coverage. They were essentially a result of a continuing level of increased claim activity being reported by excess and primary insurance policyholders with existing
active claims, excess policyholders with new claims, and reestimates of liabilities for increased assumed reinsurance cessions, as ceding companies (other insurance carriers) also experienced
increased claim activity. Higher claim activity over prior estimates has also resulted in an increased estimate for future claims reported. These trends are consistent with the trends of other
carriers in the industry, which we believe are related to increased publicity and awareness of coverage, ongoing litigation and bankruptcy actions. The 2007 asbestos reserve addition also includes the
write-off of uncollectible reinsurance for a single foreign reinsurer.   

          Normal
environmental claim activity resulted in essentially no change in estimated reserves for 2008. The reserve additions for environmental in 2007 were for increased claim activity
related to site-specific remediations where the clean-up cost estimates and responsibility for the clean-up have been more fully determined. This increased claim
activity over prior estimates has also resulted in an increased estimate for future claims reported. IBNR now represents 63% of total net environmental reserves, 8 points higher than at
December 31, 2007.   

  64  

The
table below summarizes reserves and claim activity for asbestos and environmental claims before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of reinsurance for the past three years.   

The survival ratio is calculated by taking our ending reserves divided by payments made during the year. This is a commonly used but extremely
simplistic and imprecise approach to measuring the adequacy of asbestos and environmental reserve levels. Many factors, such as mix of business, level of coverage provided and settlement procedures
have significant impacts on the amount of environmental and asbestos claims and claims expense
reserves, claim payments and the resultant ratio. As payments result in corresponding reserve reductions, survival ratios can be expected to vary over time.   

In
2008, the asbestos net 3-year survival ratio increased due to lower average annual payments. In 2007, the asbestos net 3-year survival ratio declined due to
continuing claim payments. In 2008, the environmental net 3-year survival ratio declined due to continuing claim payments. In 2007, the environmental net 3-year survival ratio
increased due to reserve additions.   

          Our
net asbestos reserves by type of exposure and total reserve additions are shown in the following table.   

During the last three years, 72 direct primary and excess policyholders reported new claims, and claims of 67 policyholders were closed,
increasing the number of active policyholders by 5 during the period. The 5 increase   

  65  

comprised
(9) from 2008, 6 from 2007 and 8 from 2006. The decrease of 9 from 2008 included 15 new policyholders reporting new claims and the closing of 24 policyholders' claims.   

IBNR
net reserves decreased by $55 million. At December 31, 2008 IBNR represented 64% of total net asbestos reserves, 1 point lower than at December 31, 2007. IBNR
provides for reserve development of known claims and future reporting of additional unknown claims from current and new policyholders and ceding companies.   

Pending,
new, total closed and closed without payment claims for asbestos and environmental exposures for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

Property-Liability Reinsurance Ceded       For Allstate Protection, we utilize reinsurance to reduce exposure to catastrophe risk and manage
capital, and
to support the required statutory surplus and the insurance financial strength ratings of certain subsidiaries such as Allstate Floridian Insurance Company and Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company.
We purchase significant reinsurance where we believe the greatest benefit may be achieved relative to our aggregate countrywide exposure. The price and terms of reinsurance and the credit quality of
the reinsurer are considered in the purchase process, along with whether the price can be appropriately reflected in the costs that are considered in setting future rates charged to policyholders. We
also participate in various reinsurance mechanisms, including industry pools and facilities, which are backed by the financial resources of the property-liability insurance company market
participants, and have historically purchased reinsurance to mitigate long-tail liability lines, including environmental, asbestos and other discontinued lines exposures. We retain primary
liability as a direct insurer for all risks ceded to reinsurers.   

          The
impacts of reinsurance on our reserve for claims and claims expense at December 31 are summarized in the following table, net of allowances we have established for
uncollectible amounts.   

Reinsurance recoverables include an estimate of the amount of property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves that may be ceded
under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, including incurred but not reported unpaid losses. We calculate our ceded reinsurance estimate based on the terms of each applicable reinsurance
agreement, including an estimate of how IBNR losses will ultimately be ceded under the agreement. We also consider other limitations and coverage exclusions under our reinsurance agreements.
Accordingly, our estimate of reinsurance recoverables is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as our estimate of reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense. We believe the
recoverables are appropriately established; however,   

  66  

as
our underlying reserves continue to develop, the amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts currently recorded. We regularly evaluate the reinsurers and the respective amounts recoverable,
and a provision for uncollectible reinsurance is recorded if needed. The establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables is also an
inherently uncertain process involving estimates. Changes in estimates could result in additional changes to the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

          The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance relates to Discontinued Lines and Coverages reinsurance recoverables and was $168 million and $185 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These amounts represent 16.9% and 16.4%, respectively of the related reinsurance recoverable balances. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review
of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, and other relevant factors. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may become involved in
coverage disputes with certain of our reinsurers which may ultimately result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against such reinsurers to determine the parties' rights and obligations under
the various reinsurance agreements. We employ dedicated specialists to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. We also consider recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and
cedants, and recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers in seeking to maximize our reinsurance recoveries. For further discussion on the decrease
in the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance, see Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.   

          Adverse
developments in the insurance industry have led to a decline in the financial strength of some of our reinsurance carriers, causing amounts recoverable from them and future
claims ceded to them to be considered a higher risk. There has also been consolidation activity in the industry, which causes reinsurance risk across the industry to be concentrated among fewer
companies. In addition, over the last several years the industry has increasingly segregated asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities with dedicated
capital. Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions. We are unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectability of reinsurance
recoverables in the future.   

          The
largest reinsurance recoverable balances are shown in the following table at December 31, net of allowances we have established for uncollectible amounts.   

67  

The effects of reinsurance ceded on our property-liability premiums earned and claims and claims expense for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

For
the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, ceded property-liability premiums earned decreased $217 million and increased $243 million, respectively, when
compared to prior years, primarily as a result of changes in the rates charged on our catastrophe reinsurance program.   

          Ceded
property-liability claims and claims expense increased in 2008 primarily due to amounts ceded to NFIP and MCCA. Ceded property-liability claims and claims expense decreased in 2007
as a result of lower qualifying losses eligible to be ceded to the FHCF, but higher losses eligible to be ceded to NFIP and MCCA. For further discussion, see the Discontinued Lines and Coverages
Segment and Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves sections of the MD A.   

          For
a detailed description of the MCCA, FHCF and Lloyd's, see Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2008, other than the recoverable balances
listed above, no other amount due or estimated to be due from any single Property-Liability reinsurer was in excess of $23 million.   

          We
enter into certain inter-company insurance and reinsurance transactions for the Property-Liability operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among
various legal entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

          An
affiliate of the company, Allstate Texas Lloyd's ("ATL"), a syndicate insurance company, cedes 100% of its business net of reinsurance with external parties to AIC. At
December 31, 2008, ATL had $66 million of reinsurance recoverable primarily related to losses incurred from Hurricane Ike which occurred in 2008. At December 31, 2007, ATL had
$5 million reinsurance recoverable primarily related to losses incurred from Hurricane Rita which occurred in 2005.   

Catastrophe Reinsurance     

          Our personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to
catastrophes nationwide. Our program provides reinsurance protection to us for catastrophes including storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, wildfires, earthquakes and fires
following earthquakes.   

          Our
catastrophe reinsurance program which will be effective June 1, 2009 is currently being negotiated. We expect to bind coverage in March 2009, except for certain coverage in
Florida which we expect to bind by June 1, 2009. We anticipate reporting the details of our catastrophe reinsurance program renewal upon finalizing coverage. See The Allstate Corporation Annual
Report on Form 10-K for 2007 and The Allstate Corporation Form 10-Qs for 2008 for additional details on our current program.   

          We
expect to renew expiring coverages including the coverage expiring on programs placed for 2 years (Aggregate excess), 3 years (various state specific), and 1 year
(South-East and Florida). We anticipate purchasing coverage that has similar retentions and limits as our expiring program, with either retentions and limits or premiums being subject to
re-measurement for exposure differences from estimates initially provided to reinsurers. In addition, effective June 1, 2009, we are contemplating two new agreements: a Pennsylvania
only agreement (up to $100 million limit, $100 million retention) to enhance protection in Pennsylvania, and a Texas/Louisiana agreement (up to $150 million limit,
$500 million retention) whereby losses resulting from the same   

  68  

named
or numbered storm but taking place in both Texas and Louisiana may be combined to meet the agreement's per occurrence retention and limit. We also intend to purchase a portion of our annual
Florida reinsurance program in the first quarter of 2009, deferring our remaining Florida reinsurance purchase until the FHCF reimbursement program is finalized.   

Our
reinsurance program, effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009 is comprised of agreements that provide coverage for the occurrence of certain qualifying catastrophes in
specific states including New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Texas ("multi-peril"); additional coverage for hurricane catastrophe losses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut
("North-East") in other states along the southern and eastern coasts ("South-East") and in Texas ("Texas"); in California for fires following earthquakes ("California fires
following earthquakes"); in Kentucky for earthquakes and fires following earthquakes ("Kentucky"); and four agreements for our exposure in Florida. The Florida component of the reinsurance program,
which expires on May 31, 2009, is designed separately from the other components of the program to address the distinct needs of our separately capitalized legal entities in that state. Another
reinsurance agreement provides coverage nationwide, excluding Florida, for the aggregate or sum of catastrophe losses in excess of an annual retention associated with storms named or numbered by the
National Weather Service, California wildfires, earthquakes and fires following earthquakes ("aggregate excess"). For further discussion on catastrophe reinsurance, see Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements.   

          The
multi-peril agreements have various retentions and limits commensurate with the amount of catastrophe risk, measured on an annual basis, in each covered state. The multi-peril
agreement for Connecticut and Rhode Island provides that losses resulting from the same occurrence but taking place in both states may be combined to meet the agreement's per occurrence retention and
limit. One-third of the coverage expires each year with each of the three contracts in this agreement.   

          The
North-East agreement was placed with Willow Re Ltd., a Cayman Island insurance company, and covers Allstate Protection personal property and auto excess
catastrophe losses. Amounts payable under the reinsurance agreement are based on an index created by applying predetermined percentages representing our market share to insured personal property
industry losses in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut as reported by Property Claim Services ("PCS"), a division of Insurance Services Offices, Inc., limited to our actual losses. This
agreement covers 38% of $658 million, our estimated share of estimated modified personal property industry catastrophe losses between $9.2 billion and $13.5 billion, or 38% of our
catastrophe losses between $1.6 billion (initial trigger) and $2.2 billion (exhaustion point) in the states of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The initial trigger and exhaustion
points are reset by AIR Worldwide Corporation ("AIR") annually based on changes in the underlying industry exposures and our share of industry exposures. Willow Re Ltd. issued to unrelated
investors principal-at-risk variable market rate notes of $250 million to collateralize hurricane catastrophe losses covered by this reinsurance agreement. Willow
Re Ltd. entered into a total return
swap with Lehman Brothers Special Financing, Inc. ("Lehman") which guaranteed the value of the collateral and a predetermined fixed rate of return to be paid to note holders. Upon the failure
of Lehman in the third quarter of 2008, the total return swap was settled and terminated without replacement. Allstate continues to make the required premium payments to Willow Re and the reinsurance
remains in place, but the underlying assets have not generated enough interest to meet the quarterly bond interest payment requirement due in February 2009, resulting in a default to note holders. The
default does not create any obligations for Allstate and the reinsurance contract remains in place, although the value of the reinsurance provided by Willow Re depends upon the market value of the
underlying assets held in collateral for reinsurance trust, with Allstate as the beneficiary. The underlying assets held in collateral are comprised largely of illiquid mortgaged-backed securities and
cash with a current market value less than $250 million.   

          The
Texas agreement provides coverage for Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses in Texas for hurricane catastrophe losses. The agreement was placed with Willow
Re Ltd., which completed an offering to unrelated investors for principal at risk, variable market rate notes of $250 million to collateralize hurricane catastrophe losses covered by
this agreement. Amounts payable under the reinsurance agreement will be based on an index created by applying predetermined percentages representing our market share to insured personal property
industry losses in Texas as reported by PCS limited to our actual losses. The limits on our Texas agreement are designed to replicate as close as possible 100% of $250 million, our estimated
market share of estimated modified personal property industry catastrophe losses between $12.5 billion and $15.8 billion, or 100% of our catastrophe losses between $950 million
(retention) and $1.2 billion (exhaustion point). The Texas agreement placed with Willow Re is independent of the North-East agreement and is not impacted by the termination of the
North-East agreement's total return swap.   

  69  

The
Florida reinsurance program, which will be effective June 1, 2009, should be similar in design to the current program, however containing limits based on reduced underlying
exposure, assuming there is no further change in Florida insurance markets. Our current program comprises, four separate agreements entered into by Allstate Floridian for personal property excess
catastrophe losses in Florida, effective June 1, 2008 for one year. These agreements coordinate coverage with the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, including our elected participation in the
optional temporary increase in coverage limit ("TICL"), (collectively "FHCF"). We chose not to participate in the optional temporary emergency additional coverage option ("TEACO") that
is below the mandatory FHCF coverage. The FHCF provides 90% reimbursement on qualifying Allstate Floridian property losses up to an estimated maximum of $398 million in excess of a
$80 million retention, including reimbursement of eligible loss adjustment expenses at 5%, for each of the two largest hurricanes and $27 million for all other hurricanes for the season
beginning June 1, 2008. The four agreements are listed and described below.    

FHCF Retention provides coverage on $59 million of losses in excess of $40 million and is 100%
placed, with one prepaid reinstatement of limit.     
           FHCF Sliver provides coverage on 10% co-participation of the FHCF payout, or $40 million
and is 100% placed, with one prepaid reinstatement of limit.     
           FHCF Back-up provides coverage after the exhaustion of an amount equivalent to the anticipated
FHCF reimbursement protection on $398 million of losses in excess of $80 million and is 90% placed.     
           FHCF Excess provides coverage on $99 million of losses in excess of the FHCF Retention, FHCF and the
FHCF Back-up agreements and is 100% placed, with one prepaid reinstatement of limit.    

We
are currently evaluating the FHCF's capacity to timely reimburse us in the event of a major catastrophe, and await any changes that might be made by the FL legislature.   

We
have approximately $175 million or 9% of the Aggregate excess agreement limits for the June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009 period, $25 million or 5% of the
South-East agreement limit, $250 million or 100% of the North-East agreement limit; $250 million or 100% of the Texas agreement, and $2 million or less
than 1% of the Florida limit placed with alternative market sources. Alternative market sources refers to a reinsurer that hedge funds, private equity firms, or investment banks substantially or
wholly support; retrocedes 100% of its assumed liability to a specific retrocessionaire; provides collateral to us equal to its assumed per occurrence limit; or funding is provided by an unrelated
third party issuance of bonds financing the reinsurance limit ("catastrophe bond").   

          Our
total annualized cost for catastrophe reinsurance for the year beginning June 1, 2008 is $613 million (originally $660 million before annual exposure
re-measurements). The total cost of our reinsurance program during 2008 was $227 million in the first quarter, $223 million in the second quarter, $164 million in the
third quarter and $136 million in the fourth quarter. We estimate that the total annualized cost of our catastrophe reinsurance program for the year beginning June 1, 2009, including the
new Pennsylvania and Texas/Louisiana agreements, to be within 10% of our expiring annualized reinsurance contract premiums of $613 million. We continue to attempt to capture our reinsurance
cost in premium rates as allowed by state regulatory authorities.   

          The
reinsurance agreements have been placed in the global reinsurance market, with all limits on our current Florida program and the majority of limits on our other programs placed with
reinsurers who currently have an A.M. Best insurance financial strength rating of A or better. The remaining limits are placed with reinsurers who currently have an A.M. Best insurance
financial strength rating no lower than A-, with three exceptions. Of the three exceptions, one has a Standard   Poor's ("S P") rating of AA, one has an S P rating of
AA- and we have collateral for the entire contract limit exposure for the reinsurer which is not rated by either rating agency.   

  70  

ALLSTATE FINANCIAL 2008 HIGHLIGHTS     

Net loss was $1.72 billion in 2008 compared to net income of $465 million in 2007.    
           Net realized capital losses totaled $3.13 billion in 2008 compared to $193 million in 2007.    
           During 2008, we recorded $397 million in accelerated DAC and deferred sales inducement costs ("DSI") amortization
related to deferred annuities and interest-sensitive life insurance due to changes in assumptions (which resulted in changes to total EGP). Additional amortization of DAC totaling $336 million
was recorded in connection with a premium deficiency assessment for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies primarily due to revised annuity mortality assumptions.    
           Contractholder fund deposits totaled $10.40 billion for 2008 compared to $8.99 billion for 2007.    
           Investments as of December 31, 2008 decreased 17.2% to $61.50 billion from $74.26 billion as of
December 31, 2007 and net investment income decreased 11.3% to $3.81 billion in 2008 from $4.30 billion in 2007.     
           Continued focus on improving returns and reducing our concentration in spread based products, primarily fixed annuities
and institutional markets products.     
           Launched an initiative that will result in lower operating expenses in 2009 and 2010, and targeting annual savings of
$90 million beginning in 2011.    
 
  71  

ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT     

           Overview and Strategy       The Allstate Financial segment is a major provider of life insurance, retirement and investment products, and
voluntary
accident and health insurance to individual and institutional customers. We serve these customers through Allstate exclusive agencies, the Workplace Division and non-proprietary
distribution channels. Allstate Financial's strategic vision is to reinvent protection and retirement for the consumer.   

          To
achieve its vision and reach its financial goals, Allstate Financial's primary objectives are to deepen financial services relationships with Allstate customers, dramatically expand
the workplace business and restore profitability through operational excellence and portfolio optimization. Sales in non-proprietary channels will be increasingly tactical as we assess
market opportunities. In addition to focusing on higher return markets, products, and distribution channels, Allstate Financial will continue to emphasize capital efficiency and enterprise risk and
return management strategies and actions.   

          Allstate
Financial's strategy provides a platform to profitably grow its business. Based upon Allstate's strong financial position and brand, our customers seek assistance in meeting
their protection and retirement needs through trusted relationships. We have unique access to potential customers through cross-sell opportunities within the Allstate exclusive agencies
and employer relationships through our Workplace Division. Our investment expertise, strong operating platform and solid relationships with distribution partners provide a foundation to deliver value
to our customers and shareholders.   

          We
plan to offer a more focused suite of products designed for middle market consumers to help everyday Americans meet their financial protection needs and help them better prepare for
retirement. Our products include fixed annuities including deferred, immediate and indexed; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; voluntary accident and health insurance; and
funding agreements backing medium-term notes. Banking products and services are also offered to customers through the Allstate Bank. Our products are sold through a wide range of
distribution channels including Allstate exclusive agencies, which include exclusive financial specialists, independent agents (including master brokerage agencies and workplace enrolling agents),
financial service firms such as banks and broker-dealers, and specialized structured settlement brokers. Allstate Bank products can also be obtained directly through a toll-free number.
Our institutional product line consists primarily of funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual
investors.   

  72  

Summarized financial data for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

Effective
June 1, 2006, Allstate Financial disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance with Prudential Financial Inc. ("Prudential").
The following table presents the results of operations attributable to our reinsured variable annuity business for the period of 2006 prior to the disposition.   

($ in millions)    
     
   2006    

Life and annuity premiums and contract charges  
     
   $  
  136  

Net investment income  

17  

Realized capital gains and losses  

(8  
  )  

Total revenues  

145  

Life and annuity contract benefits  

(13  
   )  

Interest credited to contractholder funds  

(24  
  )  

Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs  

(44  
  )  

Operating costs and expenses  

(43  
  )  

Total costs and expenses  

(124  
  )  

Loss on disposition of operations  

(89  
   )  

Income from operations before income tax expense (1)   
     
   $  
  (68  
  )  

(1)    For
2006, income from operations before income tax expense attributable to the variable annuity business reinsured to Prudential included an investment
spread and benefit spread of $(7) million and $13 million, respectively.    

             Net loss    in 2008 of $1.72 billion compared to net income of $465 million and
$464 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The change in 2008 was primarily the result of the recognition of higher net realized capital losses in the current year compared to the prior year
and, to a lesser extent, DAC and DSI amortization acceleration for changes in assumptions and additional amortization of DAC that was recorded in connection with a premium deficiency assessment for
traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies due to revised
annuity mortality assumptions. Net income in 2007 was comparable to 2006 as lower losses associated with dispositions of operations were almost entirely offset by a decline in total revenues.   

            Analysis of Revenues       Total revenues decreased 56.8% or $3.39 billion in 2008 compared to 2007, due to a $2.93 billion
increase in net
realized capital losses and a $486 million decrease in net investment income. Total revenues decreased 1.5% or $90 million in 2007 compared to 2006, due to higher net realized capital
losses and lower premiums and contract charges, partially offset by higher net investment income.   

            Life and annuity premiums and contract charges       Premiums represent revenues generated from traditional life insurance, immediate
annuities with life
contingencies, and accident, health and other insurance products that   

  73  

have
significant mortality or morbidity risk. Contract charges are revenues generated from interest-sensitive and variable life insurance, fixed annuities and variable annuities for which deposits are
classified as contractholder funds or separate accounts liabilities. Contract charges are assessed against the contractholder account values for maintenance, administration, cost of insurance and
surrender prior to contractually specified dates. As a result, changes in contractholder funds are considered in the evaluation of growth and as indicators of future levels of revenues. Subsequent to
the close of our reinsurance transaction with Prudential effective June 1, 2006, variable annuity contract charges on the business subject to the transaction are fully reinsured to Prudential
and presented net of reinsurance on the Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).   

          The
following table summarizes life and annuity premiums and contract charges by product.   

(1)    Beginning
in 2008, certain ceded reinsurance premiums previously included as a component of traditional life insurance premiums were reclassified
prospectively to be reported as a component of interest-sensitive life insurance contract charges. In 2007 and 2006, these reinsurance premiums were $95 million and $58 million,
respectively.
      (2)    Total
contract charges for 2008, 2007 and 2006 include contract charges related to the cost of insurance of $595 million, $652 million and
$638 million, respectively.    

          Total premiums increased 8.4% in 2008 compared to 2007, due to the prospective reporting reclassification for certain ceded reinsurance premiums.
Excluding the impact of this reporting reclassification, total premiums decreased 2.3% in 2008 compared to 2007 as higher sales of accident and health insurance and traditional life insurance products
were more than offset by lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies due to highly competitive market conditions and our continued focus on returns.   

Total
premiums decreased 3.2% in 2007 compared to 2006 as higher sales of accident and health insurance products sold through the Allstate Workplace Division and traditional life
insurance products were more than offset by a decline in sales of life contingent immediate annuities due to market competitiveness.   

          Total
contract charges decreased 4.4% in 2008 compared to 2007 due to the prospective reporting reclassification of certain ceded reinsurance premiums. Excluding the impact of this
reclassification, total contract charges increased 5.7% in 2008 due to higher contract charges on interest-sensitive life insurance policies resulting from
increased contract charge rates and growth in business in force, partially offset by decreased contract charges on fixed annuities resulting primarily from lower contract surrenders.   

          Contract
charges decreased 6.5% in 2007 compared to 2006 due to the disposal of substantially all of our variable annuity business through reinsurance effective June 1, 2006.
Excluding contract charges on variable annuities, substantially all of which are reinsured to Prudential effective June 1, 2006, contract charges increased 7.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. This
increase reflects growth in interest-sensitive life insurance policies in force and, to a lesser extent, higher contract charges on fixed annuities. The increase in contract charges on fixed annuities
was mostly attributable to higher contract surrenders.   

  74  

Total Contractholder funds    represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of individual and institutional products, such as
interest-sensitive life insurance, fixed annuities, funding agreements and bank deposits. The balance of contractholder funds is equal to the cumulative deposits received and interest credited to the
contractholder less cumulative contract maturities, benefits, surrenders, withdrawals and contract charges for mortality or administrative expenses. The following table shows the changes in
contractholder funds.   

(1)    The
table above illustrates the changes in contractholder funds, which are presented gross of reinsurance recoverables on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position. The table above is intended to supplement our discussion and analysis of revenues, which are presented net of reinsurance on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result,
the net change in contractholder funds associated with products reinsured to third parties is reflected as a component of the other adjustments line. This includes, but is not limited to, the net
change in contractholder funds associated with the reinsured variable annuity business subsequent to the effective date of our reinsurance agreements with Prudential (see Note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements).    

          Contractholder funds decreased 5.8% and 0.1% in 2008 and 2007, respectively, and increased 3.3% in 2006. Average contractholder funds decreased
2.9% in 2008 compared to 2007, and increased 1.6% in 2007 compared to 2006.   

          Contractholder
deposits increased 15.7% in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to higher deposits on institutional products, and to a lesser extent, higher deposits on fixed annuities
and Allstate Bank products. Sales of our institutional products vary from period to period based on management's assessment of market conditions, investor demand and operational priorities. Deposits
on fixed annuities increased 4.6% in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to increased consumer demand as the attractiveness of fixed annuities relative to competing products improved, partially offset
by pricing decisions aimed to increase new business returns.   

          Contractholder
deposits decreased 14.2% in 2007 compared to 2006. This decline was primarily due to lower deposits on fixed annuities partially offset by higher deposits on institutional
products. The decline of 39.5% in fixed annuity deposits in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to our strategy to raise new business returns for these products combined with lower industry-wide
fixed annuity sales. Deposits on institutional products increased 42.9% in 2007 compared to 2006.   

          Maturities
and retirements of institutional products increased $5.43 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. During 2008, we retired $5.36 billion of extendible institutional
market obligations for which investors had elected to non-extend their maturity date through a combination of maturities, calls, and acquisitions in the secondary market. All of our
outstanding extendible institutional market contracts, which totaled $1.45 billion as of
December 31, 2008, have non-extended and become due by October 31, 2009. We have accumulated, and expect to maintain, short-term and other maturing investments to
fund the retirement of these obligations.   

  75  

Surrenders
and partial withdrawals decreased 9.5% to $5.31 billion in 2008 from $5.87 billion in 2007 due to lower surrenders and partial withdrawals on market value
adjusted annuities and traditional fixed annuities, partially offset by higher surrenders and partial withdrawals on interest-sensitive life insurance products and, to a lesser extent, increased
withdrawals on Allstate Bank products. The surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred fixed annuities, interest-sensitive life insurance products and Allstate Bank products, based on the
beginning of period contractholder funds, was 12.2% in 2008 compared to 13.3% in 2007.   

          Surrenders
and partial withdrawals decreased 1.2% in 2007 compared to 2006. This decline was due to lower surrenders and partial withdrawals on interest-sensitive life insurance policies
and the classification of the net change in variable annuity contractholder funds as "other adjustments" subsequent to the effective date of our reinsurance agreements with Prudential. These declines
were partially offset by an 11.2% increase in surrenders and partial withdrawals on fixed annuities. The surrenders and partial withdrawals line in the table above, for 2006 includes
$120 million related to the reinsured variable annuity business. The surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred fixed annuities, interest-sensitive life insurance products and Allstate
Bank products, based on the beginning of period contractholder funds, was 13.3% in 2007 compared to 13.9% in 2006. The improvement in the surrender and partial withdrawal rate in 2007 compared to 2006
was primarily due to a block of corporate owned life insurance policies that terminated in 2006 due to the bankruptcy of the policyholder.   

             Net investment income    decreased 11.3% in 2008 compared to 2007 and increased 3.0% in 2007 compared to 2006. The decline in 2008 was
primarily due to lower investment yields on floating rate securities, increased short-term investment balances reflecting liquidity management activities, lower average investment balances
and lower income from limited partnership interests. The increase in 2007 was primarily due to higher average portfolio balances, increased portfolio yields and higher income from limited partnership
interests.   

             Net realized capital gains and losses    are reflected in the following table for the years ended December 31.   

(1)    To
conform to the current period presentation, certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified.
      (2)    Impairment
write-downs reflect issue specific other than temporary declines in fair value, including instances where we could not reasonably assert that the
recovery period would be temporary.
      (3)    Change
in intent write-downs reflect instances where we cannot assert a positive intent to hold until recovery.
      (4)    Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, income from EMA LP is reported in realized capital gains and losses. EMA LP income for periods prior
to the fourth quarter of 2008 is reported in net investment income.    

          For further discussion of realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of the MD A.   

Analysis of Costs and Expenses       Total costs and expenses decreased 0.9% or $48 million in 2008 compared to 2007 due to lower
interest credited
to contractholder funds, partially offset by higher amortization of DAC, contract benefits and operating costs and expenses. Total costs and expenses in 2007 were consistent with 2006 as increased
interest credited to contractholder funds and life and annuity contract benefits were offset by lower amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and restructuring and related charges.   

             Life and annuity contract benefits    increased 1.5% or $23 million in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to higher contract benefits
on life insurance products, partially offset by lower contract benefits on annuities. The increase in contract benefits on life insurance products was primarily due to unfavorable mortality
experience, partially offset by the recognition in the prior year period of litigation related costs in the form of additional policy benefits. The decline in contract benefits on annuities was due to
the impact of lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies, partially offset by unfavorable mortality experience.   

  76  

Life
and annuity contract benefits increased 1.2% or $19 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to increased contract benefits on life insurance products, partially offset by lower
contract benefits on annuities. Increased contract benefits on life insurance products in 2007 were primarily due to unfavorable mortality experience, litigation related costs recognized in 2007 in
the form of additional policy benefits on certain universal life policies written prior to 1992, and higher contract benefits associated with the Workplace Division. The decline in contract benefits
on annuities was mostly attributable to favorable mortality experience on immediate annuities with life contingencies and the absence in 2007 of contract benefits on the reinsured variable annuity
business, partially offset by an increase in the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies.   

          We
analyze our mortality and morbidity results using the difference between premiums and contract charges earned for the cost of insurance and life and annuity contract benefits
excluding the portion related to the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies ("benefit spread"). This implied interest totaled $552 million, $547 million and
$539 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The benefit spread by product group is disclosed in the following table.   

Interest credited to contractholder funds    decreased 10.1% or $270 million in 2008 compared to 2007 and increased 2.8% or
$72 million in 2007 compared to 2006. The decrease in 2008 compared to 2007 was due primarily to a decline in average contractholder funds, decreased weighted average interest crediting rates
on institutional products resulting from a decline in market interest rates on floating rate obligations, and a favorable change in amortization of DSI relating to realized capital gains and losses,
partially offset by the acceleration of amortization of DSI due to changes in assumptions. The acceleration of amortization of DSI due to changes in assumptions increased interest credited to
contractholder funds by $70 million in 2008 compared to amortization deceleration which decreased interest credited to contractholder funds by $5 million in 2007.   

          The
increase in interest credited to contractholder funds in 2007 compared to 2006 was due primarily to growth in average contractholder funds and, to a lesser extent, higher weighted
average interest crediting rates on institutional products, which are detailed in the table of investment yields, crediting rates and investment spreads by product below. The increase was partially
offset by the impact of the reinsured variable annuity business. Excluding the impact of the reinsured variable annuity business, interest credited to contractholder funds increased 3.7% in 2007
compared to 2006.   

          In
order to analyze the impact of net investment income and interest credited to contractholders on net income, we monitor the difference between net investment income and the sum of
interest credited to contractholder funds and the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies, which is included as a component of life and annuity contract benefits on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations ("investment spread").   

          The
investment spread by product group is shown in the following table.   

77  

To further analyze investment spreads, the following table summarizes the weighted average investment yield on assets supporting product liabilities and capital, interest crediting rates
and investment spreads for 2008, 2007 and 2006.   

The
following table summarizes our product liabilities as of December 31 and indicates the account value of those contracts and policies in which an investment spread is
generated.   

Amortization of DAC    increased 20.8% in 2008 compared to 2007 and decreased 6.9% in 2007 compared
to 2006. The components of amortization of DAC are summarized in the following table.   

(1)    Amortization
of DAC before accretion relating to realized capital gains and losses and changes in assumptions for 2006 includes $(72) million relating to
the reinsured variable annuity business.
      (2)    Amortization
relating to realized capital gains and losses for 2006 includes $28 million relating to the reinsured variable annuity business.
      (3)    Total
amortization of DAC for 2006 includes $44 million relating to the reinsured variable annuity business.    

          The increase of $121 million in 2008 was due primarily to amortization acceleration relating to changes in assumptions and additional
amortization recorded in connection with a premium deficiency assessment for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, partially offset by higher accretion of DAC
relating to net realized capital losses. The impact of realized capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC is dependent upon the relationship between the assets that give rise to the gain or loss
and the product liability supported by the assets. Fluctuations result from changes in the impact of realized capital gains and losses on actual and expected gross profits.   

          In
2008, DAC amortization acceleration for changes in assumptions, recorded in connection with comprehensive reviews of the DAC balances and assumptions for interest-sensitive life
insurance, annuities and other investment contracts, resulted in an increase to amortization of DAC of $327 million. The evaluations   

  78  

covered
assumptions for investment returns, including capital gains and losses, interest crediting rates to policyholders, the effect of any hedges, persistency, mortality and expenses in all product
lines. The principle assumption impacting the amortization acceleration in 2008 was the level of realized capital losses impacting actual gross profits in 2008 and the impact of realized capital
losses on EGP in 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, our assumptions for EGP were impacted by a view of further anticipated impairments in our investment portfolio. In 2007, DAC amortization
deceleration for changes in assumptions (credit to income) was $14 million.   

During
2008, indicators emerged that suggested a study of mortality experience for our immediate annuities with life contingences was warranted. At the same time, the underlying
profitability of the traditional life business
deteriorated due to lower investment returns and growth. For traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, an aggregate premium deficiency of $336 million,
pre-tax, resulted primarily from the experience study indicating that the annuitants on certain life contingent contracts are projected to live longer than we anticipated when the
contracts were issued and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio yield. The deficiency was recorded through a reduction in DAC. There was no similar charge to income
recorded in 2007 or 2006.   

          The
decrease in amortization of DAC in 2007 compared to 2006 was due to the absence in 2007 of amortization on the reinsured variable annuity business. Excluding amortization relating to
the reinsured variable annuity business, amortization of DAC in 2007 was consistent with 2006 as increased amortization related to higher gross profits on fixed annuities and a decline in the credit
to income for amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses were partially offset by lower amortization related to interest-sensitive life insurance contracts and a favorable impact
relating to DAC unlocking. The decline in amortization related to interest-sensitive life insurance contracts was the result of a write-down in 2006 totaling $27 million for the
present value of future profits related to a block of corporate owned life insurance policies that terminated due to the bankruptcy of the policyholder.   

          The
changes in the DAC asset are detailed in the following tables.   

(1)    Amortization
before adjustments reflects total DAC amortization before accretion relating to realized capital gains and losses and amortization
(acceleration) deceleration (charged) credited to income.
      (2)    Included
as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
      (3)    The
$(336) million in the traditional life and other line was recorded in connection with a premium deficiency assessment for traditional life
insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies and was primarily due to revised annuity mortality assumptions.
      (4)    The
effect of unrealized capital gains and losses represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized
capital gains and losses in the respective product portfolios were realized. Recapitalization of DAC is limited to the originally deferred policy acquisition costs plus interest.
      (5)    The
adoption of Statement of Position 05-1, "Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications
or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts" ("SOP 05-1"), resulted in an adjustment to unamortized DAC related to the impact on future estimated gross profits from the changes in
accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer    
  79  

qualify
for deferral under SOP 05-1. The adjustment was recorded as a $7 million reduction of retained income at January 1, 2007 and a reduction of the DAC balance of
$11 million, pre-tax.   

Operating costs and expenses    increased 17.9% in 2008 compared to 2007 and decreased 5.8% in 2007 compared to 2006. The following table
summarizes operating costs and expenses.   

Non-deferrable acquisition costs decreased 8.4% or $14 million in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to lower
non-deferrable commissions. Other operating costs and expenses increased 33.9% or $93 million in 2008 compared to 2007 due primarily to increased spending on consumer research,
product development, marketing and technology related to the effort to reinvent protection and retirement for consumers as well as increases in the net cost of benefits due to unfavorable investment
results. In addition, the prior years benefitted to a greater degree from a servicing fee paid by Prudential for our servicing of the variable annuity business that we ceded to them during a
transition period beginning in 2006 which ended in May 2008.   

          Non-deferrable
acquisition costs and other operating costs and expenses declined in 2007 compared to 2006 due to expenses in 2006 related to the reinsured variable annuity
business. Non-deferrable acquisition costs and other operating costs and expenses for 2006 included $19 million and $24 million, respectively, related to the reinsured
variable annuity business for the period of 2006 prior to the effective date of the reinsurance agreement. Excluding expenses associated with the impact of the reinsured variable annuity business in
the period of 2006 prior to the effective date of the reinsurance agreement, non-deferrable acquisition expenses increased 7.1% in 2007 compared to 2006 due to higher
non-deferrable commissions on certain Workplace Division products and other operating costs and expenses increased 1.9% due to higher investment in technology.   

             Loss on disposition of operations    for 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaled $6 million, $10 million and $92 million,
respectively. In both 2008 and 2007, the net loss was primarily comprised of losses associated with the previously anticipated disposition of our direct response long-term care business,
partially offset by amortization of the deferred reinsurance gain associated with our reinsured variable annuity business. The net loss in 2006 was almost entirely attributable to the reinsured
variable annuity business.   

             Income tax benefit    of $954 million was recognized for 2008 compared to income tax expense of $199 million in 2007. The
change reflects the shift from net pre-tax income in 2007 to a net pre-tax loss in 2008. Income tax expense decreased by 3.9% or $8 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due
to lower income from operations before income tax expense and an energy tax credit that reduced income tax expense.   

Reinsurance Ceded       We enter into reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurers to limit our risk of mortality and morbidity losses.
In addition,
Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all risks ceded to reinsurers.   

          As
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, 47% and 48%, respectively, of our face amount of life insurance in force was reinsured. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, for certain term
life insurance policies, we ceded up to 90% of the mortality risk depending on the year of policy issuance. Additionally, we ceded substantially all of the risk associated with our variable annuity
business and we cede 100% of the morbidity risk on substantially all of our long-term care contracts. Beginning in July 2007, for new life insurance contracts, we ceded the mortality risk
associated with coverage in excess of $3 million per life for contracts issued to individuals age 70 and over, and we ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of
$5 million per life for most other contracts. Also beginning in July 2007, for certain large contracts that meet specific criteria, our retention limit was increased to $10 million per
life. In the period prior to July 2007, but subsequent to August 1998, we ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $2 million per life, except in 2006 for certain
instances when specific criteria were met, we ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $5 million per life. For business sold prior to October 1998, we ceded mortality
risk in excess of specific amounts up to $1 million per individual life.   

  80  

Amounts recoverable from reinsurers by type of policy or contract at December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

(1)    Reinsurance
recoverables as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 include $1.57 billion and $1.26 billion, respectively, for general account
reserves related to reinsured variable annuities.    

          The estimation of reinsurance recoverables is impacted by the uncertainties involved in the establishment of reserves.   

Our
reinsurance recoverables, summarized by reinsurer as of December 31, are shown in the following table.   

(1)    The
reinsurance recoverable on paid and unpaid benefits related to the Scottish Re Group of $135 million as of December 31, 2008 is comprised
of $73 million related to Scottish Re Life Corporation and $62 million related to Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc.
      (2)    As
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the other category includes $100 million and $84 million, respectively, of recoverables due from
reinsurers with an investment grade credit rating from S P.    

          During 2008, the financial strength rating of the Scottish Re Group was downgraded by S P to CCC+ from BB+ as of December 31, 2007 due to
the deterioration of the Scottish Re Group's financial position and liquidity. The Scottish Re Group's financial strength rating was further downgraded by S P in January 2009 to CCC. The financial
strength ratings of the other of Allstate Financial's reinsurers remain stable. Although a significant impact has not been observed, the unprecedented deterioration in the global financial markets in
2008 could impact the financial condition of reinsurers in a variety of ways, including the decline in value of assets held as capital resources or to meet technical provisions, increases in
risk-based economic or regulatory capital requirements and shortage of available capital in the event that recapitalization is required following a major claim. We continuously monitor the
creditworthiness of reinsurers in order to determine our risk of recoverability on an individual and aggregate basis, and a provision for uncollectible reinsurance is recorded if needed. No amounts
have been deemed unrecoverable in the three-years ended December 31, 2008.   

  81  

We
enter into certain inter-company reinsurance transactions for the Allstate Financial operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among various legal
entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

    Allstate Financial Outlook     

We will continue to focus on improving returns and reducing our concentration in spread based products, primarily fixed
annuities and institutional markets products, resulting in lower premiums and deposits and reductions in net contractholder obligations.     
           We plan to improve efficiency and narrow the focus of product offerings to better serve the needs of everyday Americans.
We are targeting savings at 20% of certain operating expenses, excluding acquisition costs, and expect to yield estimated annual savings of $90 million beginning in 2011. We anticipate a
reduction of approximately 1,000 workforce positions, through a combination of attrition and position elimination over the next two years.     
           Maintaining high liquidity in our investment portfolio will result in lower net investment income but will ensure our
ability to meet contractholder obligations. We will target sales of our spread based products at levels that allow us to avoid sales of investments with significant unrealized losses into distressed
or illiquid markets.     
           We expect continued investment spread compression due to credit losses, reduced contractholder funds and maintenance of
liquidity.    

INVESTMENTS     

           Overview and Strategy       An important component of our financial results is the return on our investment portfolios. Investment portfolios
are segmented
between the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other operations. While taking into consideration the investment portfolio in aggregate, we manage the underlying portfolios based
upon the nature of each respective business and its corresponding liability structure.   

          The
global economy is under significant stress and financial markets continue to experience extreme levels of volatility. Our strategy in 2009 will focus primarily upon mitigating the
risks from a potential increase in risk-free interest rates, reducing exposure to certain investment sectors, and maintaining sufficient liquidity and capital. In order to achieve this, we
expect to use a combination of reinvestment of the portfolio's significant cash flows, derivatives and other portfolio actions.   

          The
Property-Liability portfolio's investment strategy emphasizes safety of principal and consistent income generation, within a total return framework. This approach, which has produced
competitive returns over the long term, is designed to ensure financial strength and stability for paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth. We employ a strategic asset
allocation approach, which uses models that consider the nature of the liabilities and risk tolerances, as well as the risk and return parameters of the various asset classes in which we invest. The
recommended asset allocation is informed by our economic and market outlook, as well as other inputs and constraints, including duration, liquidity and capital considerations.   

          The
Allstate Financial portfolio's investment strategy focuses on the total return of assets needed to support the underlying liabilities to achieve return on capital and profitable
growth. The portfolio management process begins with a strategic asset allocation model which considers the nature and risk tolerances of the liabilities and risk tolerances, as well as the risk and
return parameters, of the various asset classes in which we invest. This approach is informed by our economic and market outlook, as well as other inputs and constraints including duration, liquidity
and capital preservation. Within the ranges set by the strategic asset allocation model, tactical investment decisions are made in consideration of prevailing market conditions.   

          The
Corporate and Other portfolio's investment strategy balances the pursuit of competitive returns with the unique liquidity needs of the portfolio relative to the overall corporate
capital structure. The portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, liquid fixed income and short-term securities with additional investments in less liquid holdings in order to
enhance overall returns.   

          As
a result of decisions in managing each of the portfolios, we may sell securities during a period in which fair value has declined below amortized cost for fixed income securities or
cost for equity securities. For more information, see the Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses section of the MD A.   

  82  

During
2008, we developed risk mitigation and return optimization programs as our outlook on the economy changed significantly as conditions deteriorated throughout the year. The risk
mitigation and return optimization programs augment earlier actions to reduce investments in real estate and other market sectors as well as to mitigate exposures to risk-free interest
rate spikes. At the end of the second quarter of 2008, we had an outlook for continued weakness in the global financial markets and economy including continued volatility in the financial markets,
reduced liquidity in certain asset classes and unfavorable economic trends. During the third quarter of 2008, we significantly modified our outlook to a more severe and prolonged downturn. We continue
to expect extreme levels of volatility in the financial markets, suppressed liquidity in certain asset classes and further unfavorable global economic conditions. In addition, the potential for market
supply and demand imbalances has remained above normal due to the deteriorating credit strength of financial institutions and eroding investor confidence.   

          Among
our risk mitigation and return optimization activities, we have taken the following actions:   

Developed and maintained a tactical positioning in liquid assets and assets that we can sell without generating
significant additional realized capital losses.     
           Continued to reduce exposure in assets other than those for which we have asserted an intent to hold until recovery where
we have credit concerns or where there has been a significant change in facts and circumstances.     
           Decreased exposure to financial-related market sectors to $7.69 billion as of December 31, 2008 from
$14.45 billion as of December 31, 2007, primarily as a result of targeted sales and declines in fair value. Also reduced our short-term investing in financial institutions.    
           Decreased exposure to residential and commercial real estate market sectors to $22.00 billion as of
December 31, 2008 from $31.54 billion as of December 31, 2007 as a result of targeted sales, principal payments and declines in fair value.     
           Reduced overall counterparty exposure replacing over-the-counter ("OTC") derivatives transactions
used as stock market hedges with exchange-traded instruments where available.     
           In the second half of 2008, we sold $1.67 billion of government securities and recognized realized capital gains of
$241 million.     
           Generated losses as part of tax planning strategy primarily within our equity portfolios that are effectively carried on a
lower of cost or fair value basis to realize capital loss carryback benefits.    

Investments
for which we had changed our intent to hold to recovery as of June 30, 2008 totaled $6.39 billion and included $3.31 billion as part of the risk
mitigation and return optimization programs, $2.39 billion of securities as part of our enterprise-wide asset allocation program and $688 million related to individual
securities. A risk mitigation and return optimization program, approved as of the end of the second quarter of 2008, was designed to reduce our exposure to residential and commercial real estate and
the financial-related market sector by approximately $4 billion of amortized cost, prior to change in intent write-downs. A comprehensive review identified specific investments that could be
significantly impacted by continued deterioration in the economy that may be sold. This included a portion of our residential and commercial real estate securities including securities collateralized
by residential and commercial mortgage loans, mortgage loans and securities issued by financial institutions.   

          During
the third and fourth quarters of 2008, we sold $2.94 billion of these securities. On October 1, 2008, it was determined that, due to the financial markets
experiencing additional severe deterioration and disruptions, we would be unable to sell certain of the investments identified as part of the programs at a value equal to or greater than our view of
their intrinsic values. Approximately $2.59 billion of these investments were re-designated as intent to hold to recovery. Investments for which we had changed our intent to hold to
recovery totaled $996 million as of December 31, 2008. For a more detailed discussion on securities written down due to a change in intent, see the Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses
section of the MD A.   

          As
part of the risk mitigation and return optimization programs, hedges were implemented to mitigate portfolio interest rate risk, credit spread risk, and equity market valuation
declines. The equity hedge was designed to protect the equity portfolio from significant equity market valuation declines below targeted levels. The strategy employed equity indexed options which
generated realized gains in the third and fourth quarters of 2008. At December 31, 2008, we had $2.32 billion of notional protection with an average strike price that was 11% below
equity market levels. The interest rate component was put in place to protect a certain portion of fixed income securities if interest rates increase above a targeted maximum level. Interest rate
spike protection for our   

  83  

fixed
income portfolio in the amount of $18.50 billion of notional principal protection was in place at December 31, 2008. Of this total, $14.50 billion was executed in early 2008
and $4.00 billion executed in December 2008. The
$14.50 billion of protection was initially struck at 150 basis points out of the money, but, due to declining interest rates, at December 31, 2008 is struck over 300 basis points out of
the money. The $4.00 billion of protection executed in December was initially struck at approximately 100 basis points out of the money. Other aspects of the hedging program have been designed
to mitigate municipal bond interest rate risk and credit spread risk. The effectiveness of these hedges may be reduced due to the basis risk associated with these strategies.   

          We
continue to monitor the progress of these actions as market and economic conditions develop and will adapt our strategies as appropriate. Our continuing focus is to manage our risks
and to position our portfolio to take advantage of market opportunities while attempting to mitigate further adverse effects.   

    Investments outlook     

Continuing risk mitigation efforts will focus on shortening duration of the fixed income portfolio, reducing exposures to
real estate and certain other market sectors, and managing excess market volatility through our macro hedging programs.     
           Net investment income will decline due to lower asset balances and yields, and the costs of maintaining high liquidity and
the risk mitigation programs.     
           Our portfolio continues to generate significant cash flow from maturities, principal and interest receipts which will be
available to manage liabilities and take advantage of market opportunities.    

Portfolio Composition       The composition of the investment portfolios at December 31, 2008 is presented in the table below. Also see
Notes 2 and 5 of the consolidated financial statements for investment accounting policies and additional information.   

(1)    Fixed
income securities are carried at fair value. Amortized cost basis for these securities was $25.83 billion, $50.52 billion and
$751 million for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other, respectively.
      (2)    Equity
securities are carried at fair value. Cost basis for these securities was $3.03 billion and $107 million for Property-Liability and
Allstate Financial, respectively.
      (3)    We
have commitments to invest in additional limited partnership interests totaling $805 million, $1.08 billion and $8 million for
Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other, respectively, at December 31, 2008.
      (4)    Short-term
investments are carried at fair value. Amortized cost basis for these investments was $2.15 billion, $3.93 billion and
$2.82 billion for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other, respectively, at December 31, 2008.
      (5)    Balances
reflect the elimination of related party investments between Property-Liability and Allstate Financial and Allstate Financial and Corporate and
Other.    

          Total investments decreased to $96.00 billion at December 31, 2008, from $118.98 billion at December 31, 2007, due
primarily to a $10.73 billion increase in unrealized net capital losses and net reductions in both contractholder obligations of $5.50 billion and securities lending balances of
$2.98 billion.   

          The
Property-Liability investment portfolio decreased to $30.84 billion at December 31, 2008, from $40.91 billion at December 31, 2007, due to unrealized net
capital losses, dividends paid by AIC to the Corporation and capital contributions from AIC to ALIC, lower funds associated with collateral received in conjunction with securities lending and net
realized capital losses.   

  84  

The Allstate Financial investment portfolio decreased to $61.50 billion at December 31, 2008, from $74.25 billion at December 31, 2007, due to unrealized net
capital losses, net reductions in contractholder funds, net realized capital losses, and lower funds associated with collateral received in conjunction with securities lending, partially offset by
capital contributions from AIC.   

          The
Corporate and Other investment portfolio decreased to $3.66 billion at December 31, 2008, from $3.82 billion at December 31, 2007, primarily due to cash
flows used in financing activities and a $1.00 billion capital contribution to AIC.   

Total
investments at amortized cost related to collateral received in connection with securities lending business activities and collateral posted by counterparties related to derivative
transactions decreased to $340 million at December 31, 2008, from $3.46 billion at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2008, these investments are included as a
component of short-term investments. At December 31, 2007, these investments were carried at fair value and $2.85 billion were classified in fixed income securities and
$549 million were classified in short-term investments.   

          Securities
lending activities are primarily used as an investment yield enhancement, and are conducted with third parties such as brokerage firms. We obtain collateral, typically in the
form of cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% to 105% of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, respectively, and monitor the market value of the securities loaned on a daily basis
with additional collateral obtained as necessary. The cash we receive is invested in short-term and fixed income investments, and an offsetting liability to return the collateral is
recorded in other liabilities and accrued expenses.   

          We
obtain fair values of our fixed income and equity securities and exchange traded and non-exchange traded derivative contracts from several sources and methods. For a
discussion of these sources and methods, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD A.   

We
may utilize derivative financial instruments to help manage the exposure to interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent currency and credit risks, from the fixed income securities
portfolio as well as exposure to equity price risk from the equity securities portfolio. For a more detailed discussion of interest rate, currency, credit and equity price risks and our use of
derivative financial instruments, see the Net realized capital gains and losses and Market Risk sections of the MD A and Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

            Fixed income securities       See Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements for a table showing the amortized cost, unrealized
gains,
unrealized losses and fair value for each type of fixed income security for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.   

          The
following table shows fixed income securities by type.   

At
December 31, 2008, 95.2% of the consolidated fixed income securities portfolio was rated investment grade, which is defined as a security having a rating from the NAIC of 1 or
2; a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody's, a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from S P's, Fitch or Dominion or a rating of aaa, aa, a, or bbb from   

  85  

A.M. Best;
or a comparable internal rating if an externally provided rating is not available. The following table summarizes the credit quality of the fixed income securities portfolio at
December 31, 2008.   

The
table above includes 67 securities with a fair value totaling $317 million that have not yet received an NAIC rating, for which we have assigned a comparable internal rating.
Due to lags between the funding of an investment, execution of final legal documents, filing with the Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the NAIC, and rating by the SVO, we generally have a small
number of securities that have a pending NAIC rating.   

             Municipal Bonds   , including tax-exempt and taxable securities, totaled $21.85 billion at December 31, 2008. The
following table summarizes the municipal bond portfolio by Moody's equivalent rating as of December 31, 2008.   

86  

(1)    Includes
ARS securities with par value of $1.91 billion, amortized cost of $1.91 billion, fair value of $1.73 billion and unrealized
gains/losses of $(176) million.
      (2)    Moody's
equivalent rating will not necessarily tie to ratings distributions from the NAIC due to potential timing differences between the various rating
suppliers and the number of external rating agencies used in the determination.    

The
unrealized net capital loss of $1.72 billion at December 31, 2008 in our municipal bond portfolio was mainly caused by widening credit spreads that affected three main
areas in this portfolio: tax exempt A and Baa rated holdings contributing $550 million of the unrealized losses and taxable zero-coupon holdings contributing $474 million of
the unrealized losses, but particularly our less liquid zero-coupon and longer dated securities; high yield municipal bond portfolio contributing $263 million of the unrealized
losses; and student loan ARS contributing $176 million of the unrealized losses.   

          Included
in our municipal bond portfolio at December 31, 2008 are $1.73 billion of ARS that have long-term stated maturities, with the interest rate reset based
on auctions that generally occur every 7, 28 or 35 days depending on the specific security. This is compared to a balance of ARS at December 31, 2007 of $2.56 billion, with the
decline primarily representing redemptions from calls or refunding proceeds since December 31, 2007. Our holdings primarily have a Moody's equivalent rating of Aaa. Approximately
$1.69 billion of
our holdings are pools of student loans for which at least 85% of the collateral was insured by the U.S. Department of Education at the time we purchased the security. As of December 31, 2008,
$1.11 billion of our ARS backed by student loans was 100% insured by the U.S. Department of Education, $335 million was 90% to 99% insured and $165 million was 80% to 89% insured.
All of our student loan ARS holdings are experiencing failed auctions and we receive the failed auction rate or, for those which contain maximum reset rate formulas, we received the contractual
maximum rate. We anticipate that failed auctions may persist and most of our holdings will continue to pay the failed auction rate or, for those that contain maximum rate reset formulas, the maximum
rate, as described below. Auctions continue to be conducted as scheduled for each of the securities.   

          We
estimate that approximately one third of our student loan backed ARS include maximum rate reset formulas with a look back feature whereby if the failed auction rate exceeds an annual
contractual maximum rate over a preceding stipulated period, the coupon interest rate is temporarily reset to the maximum rate, which can vary between zero and the failed auction rate. This maximum
rate formula causes the reset interest rate on these securities to be lower than the failed auction rate in order to reduce the annual interest rate so that it does not exceed the annual contractual
maximum rate. Generally, the annual contractual maximum rate is higher than the historical rates paid on these securities. At December 31, 2008, interest on $118 million of our ARS has
reset using the maximum rate reset formula.   

  87  

Also
included in our municipal bond holdings at December 31, 2008 are $949 million of municipal securities which are not rated by third party credit rating agencies, but
are rated by the NAIC and also internally rated by us. These holdings mainly comprise the high yield portion of our overall municipal bond portfolio and provide the opportunity to achieve incremental
returns and enhanced diversification of our overall investments portfolio. Our initial investment decisions and ongoing monitoring procedures for these securities are based on a thorough due diligence
process that includes, among other things, an assessment of the credit, structure, and liquidity risks of the issue and issuer.   

             Corporate bonds    totaled $27.63 billion at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, $13.01 billion, or 47.1%
of the portfolio consisted of privately placed securities compared to $17.34 billion or 45.1% at December 31, 2007. Privately placed securities primarily consist of corporate issued
senior debt securities that are in unregistered form and are directly negotiated with the borrower. All privately placed corporate securities are rated by the NAIC based on information provided to
them and are also internally rated. Additionally, approximately 40.7% of the privately placed corporate securities in our portfolio are rated by an independent rating agency.   

          The
following table summarizes the corporate fixed income portfolio by Moody's equivalent rating as of December 31, 2008.   

(1)    Moody's
equivalent rating will not necessarily tie to ratings distributions from the NAIC due to potential timing differences between the various rating
suppliers and the number of external rating agencies used in the determination.    

          The
unrealized net capital loss of $3.41 billion at December 31, 2008 is driven primarily by significantly widening credit spreads resulting from deteriorating macro
economic conditions and continued credit market deterioration. Credit spread widening particularly affected our non-hybrid Baa and lower rated corporate bond holdings, contributing to
approximately $2.07 billion of the unrealized net capital loss. The other significant driver of unrealized net capital losses in our corporate bond portfolio is from hybrid securities,
contributing $962 million of the unrealized loss. While these securities are generally issued by highly rated financial institutions, they have
structural features which make them more sensitive to credit market deterioration. Specifically, features allowing coupon deferral and the extension of call dates have severely impacted prices as the
global financial system undergoes significant stress.   

  88  

The following table shows additional details of our hybrid securities reported in corporate fixed income securities.   

Allstate's portfolio of privately placed securities are broadly diversified by issuer, industry sector, and by country. The portfolio is made up of approximately 620 issues with an
average security value of approximately $21 million. Privately placed corporate obligations generally benefit from increased yields and structural security features such as financial covenants
and call protections that provide investors greater protection against credit deterioration, reinvestment risk or fluctuations in interest rates than those typically found in publicly registered debt
securities. Additionally, investments in these securities are made after extensive due diligence of the issuer, typically including direct discussions with senior management and on-site
visits to company facilities. Ongoing monitoring includes direct periodic dialog with senior management of the issuer and continuous monitoring of operating performance and financial position. Every
issue is internally rated with a formal rating affirmation approximately once a year.   

             Foreign government    securities totaled $2.68 billion, with 95.7% rated investment grade, at December 31, 2008.   

  89  

Certain collateralized securities    are detailed in the following table by Moody's equivalent rating as of December 31, 2008.   

During
2008, certain financial markets continued to experience price declines due to market and liquidity disruptions. We experienced this illiquidity and disruption in certain of our
MBS, CMBS and ABS fixed income securities, particularly in our Prime residential mortgage-backed securities ("Prime"), Alt-A, CMBS, CRE CDO, ABS RMBS, ABS CDO and other collateralized debt
obligations ("other CDO") portfolios. These portfolios totaled $7.90 billion, or approximately 8% of our total investments at December 31, 2008. Other securities markets, including
certain other asset-backed and real estate-backed securities markets, also experienced illiquidity, but to a lesser degree.   

We
determine the fair values of securities comprising these illiquid portfolios by obtaining information from an independent third-party valuation service provider and brokers. We
confirmed the reasonableness of the fair value of these portfolios as of December 31, 2008 by analyzing available market information including, but not limited to, collateral quality,
anticipated cash flows, credit enhancements, default rates, loss severities, securities' relative position within their respective capital structures, and credit ratings from statistical rating
agencies.   

  90  

The
following table summarizes our illiquid portfolios as of December 31, 2008.   

(1)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.
      (2)    The
difference between par value and amortized cost of $1.64 billion is primarily attributable to write-downs. Par value has been reduced by
principal payments.    
  91  

The following table presents realized capital gains and losses and principal transactions relating to our illiquid portfolios for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

Securities
included in our illiquid portfolios with a fair value less than 70% of amortized cost as of December 31, 2008 are shown in the following table.   

We continue to believe that the unrealized losses on these securities are not predictive of the ultimate performance of the underlying collateral.
In the absence of further deterioration in the collateral relative to our positions in the securities' respective capital structures, which could be other than temporary, the unrealized losses should
reverse over the remaining lives of the securities.   

          The
cash flows of the underlying mortgages or collateral for MBS, CMBS (including CRE CDO) and ABS are generally applied in a pre-determined order and are designed so that
each security issued qualifies for a specific original rating. The security issue is typically referred to as the "class". For example, the "senior"
portion or "top" of the capital structure which would originally qualify for a rating of Aaa is referred to as the "Aaa class" and typically has priority in receiving the principal repayments on the
underlying mortgages. In a sequential structure, underlying collateral principal repayments are directed to the most senior rated Aaa class in the structure until paid in full, after which principal
repayments are directed to the next most senior Aaa class in the structure until it is paid in full. Although the various Aaa classes may receive principal sequentially, they may share any losses from
the underlying collateral on a pro-rata basis after losses are absorbed by classes with lower original ratings or what may be referred to as more "junior" or "subordinate" securities in
the capital structure. The underlying mortgages have fixed interest rates, variable interest rates (such as adjustable rate mortgages ("ARM")) or are hybrid, meaning that they contain features of both
fixed and variable rate mortgages.   

             MBS    totaled $4.49 billion, with 97.9% rated investment grade, at December 31, 2008. The MBS portfolio is subject to interest
rate risk since price volatility and the ultimate realized yield are affected by the rate of prepayment of the underlying mortgages. The credit risk associated with our MBS is mitigated due to the
fact that   

  92  

73.1%
of the portfolio consists of securities that were issued by, or have underlying collateral that is guaranteed by U.S. government agencies or U.S. government sponsored entities ("U.S. Agency").   

             Prime    are collateralized by residential mortgage loans issued to prime borrowers. The following table shows our Prime portfolio as of
December 31, 2008 by vintage year, based upon our participation in the capital structure.   

(1)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.
      (2)    May
not be consistent with current ratings due to downgrades.    

             Alt-A    can be issued by trusts backed by pools of residential mortgages with either
fixed or variable interest rates. The mortgage pools can include residential mortgage loans issued to borrowers with stronger credit profiles than sub-prime borrowers, but who do not
qualify for prime financing terms due to high loan-to-value ratios or limited supporting documentation. The following table presents information about the collateral in our
Alt-A holdings at December 31, 2008.   

The following table shows our Alt-A portfolio at December 31, 2008 by vintage year, based upon our participation in the capital
structure.   

(1)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.
      (2)    May
not be consistent with current ratings due to downgrades.    

             CMBS    totaled $3.85 billion, with 99.9% rated investment grade, at December 31, 2008.
The CMBS portfolio is subject to credit risk, but unlike other structured securities, is generally not subject to prepayment risk due to protections within the underlying commercial mortgages whereby
borrowers are effectively restricted from prepaying their mortgages due to changes in interest rates. Approximately 91.0% of the CMBS investments are structured securities collateralized by pools of
commercial mortgages, broadly diversified across property types and geographical area.   

  93  

The
following table shows our CMBS portfolio, excluding CRE CDO, at December 31, 2008 by vintage year, based upon our participation in the capital structure.   

(1)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.
      (2)    May
not be consistent with current ratings due to upgrades and downgrades.
      (3)    Most
senior of the Aaa rated tranches, typically has a high level of credit enhancement of approximately 30%, meaning actual losses in the deal have to
reach 30% before incurring a first dollar loss.
      (4)    Middle
Aaa rated tranche, typically having credit enhancement of approximately 20%, are subordinate only to the Super senior bonds.
      (5)    Lowest
Aaa rated tranche, typically with credit enhancement in the low teens. This bond is subordinate to the Super senior and Mezzanine senior tranches,
but still senior to all tranches rated below Aaa.
      (6)    Includes
Aaa bonds that were originated in 2005 through 2007 that do not fall into the categories above. These are non-traditional CMBS bonds
(large loan pools, single borrower transactions) that did not have a Aaa Senior type breakdown.
      (7)    Prior
to 2005, the Aaa bonds in a transaction were generally not divided into Super senior, Mezzanine senior, or Subordinated senior (with the exception of
a few deals structured very late in 2004); therefore all 2004 and prior Aaa-rated securities are grouped into this category.    

          The unrealized net capital loss of $2.00 billion at December 31, 2008 on our CMBS portfolio was a result of significant widening of
credit spreads due to deteriorating macro economic conditions and continued credit market deterioration. Credit spread widening occurred in all rating classes but was particularly evident in our
subordinated senior Aaa, Pre-2005 Aaa-rated and lower rated securities. These holdings accounted for $1.66 billion, or approximately 83% of the unrealized net capital
loss. Our analysis suggests
that the vast majority of our CMBS portfolio is well insulated from a severe rise in commercial mortgage default rates. Credit protections in the portfolio, including those on subordinated senior Aaa
and Aa-rated securities, are multiples of historic high commercial mortgage loss experience and well in excess of our current loss expectations.   

  94  

CRE
CDO are structured securities secured primarily by CMBS and other commercial mortgage debt obligations. These securities are generally less liquid and have a higher risk profile than
other CMBS. The following table shows our CRE CDO portfolio at December 31, 2008 by vintage year, based upon our participation in the capital structure.   

(1)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.
      (2)    May
not be consistent with current ratings due to downgrades.    

             ABS    totaled $3.86 billion, with 92.0% rated investment grade, at December 31, 2008.
Credit risk is managed by monitoring the performance of the collateral. In addition, many of the securities in the ABS portfolio are credit enhanced with features such as
over-collateralization, subordinated structures, reserve funds, guarantees and/or insurance. A portion of the ABS portfolio is also subject to interest rate risk since ultimate realized
yields are affected by the rate of prepayment of the underlying assets.   

          ABS
RMBS includes securities that are collateralized by mortgage loans issued to borrowers that cannot qualify for Prime or Alt-A financing terms due in part to weak or
limited credit history. It also includes securities that are collateralized by certain second lien mortgages regardless of the borrower's credit history. $1.66 billion or 80.2% of the ABS RMBS
portfolio consisted of securities that were issued during 2005, 2006 and
2007. At December 31, 2008, 41.0% of securities issued during 2005, 2006 and 2007 were rated Aaa, 20.1% rated Aa, 5.5% rated A, 17.5% rated Baa and 15.9% rated Ba or lower.   

          The
following table presents additional information about our ABS RMBS portfolio including a summary by first and second lien collateral at December 31, 2008.   

(1)    Fixed
rate and variable rate refer to the primary interest rate characteristics of the underlying mortgages at the time of issuance.
      (2)    The
credit ratings of the first lien ABS RMBS were 41.8% Aaa, 30.3% Aa, 10.0% A, 9.2% Baa and 8.7% Ba or lower at December 31, 2008.
      (3)    The
credit ratings of the second lien ABS RMBS were 13.7% Aaa, 8.2% Aa, 1.8% A, 43.3% Baa and 33.0% Ba or lower at December 31, 2008.    
  95  

The following table includes first lien non-insured ABS RMBS by vintage year and the interest rate characteristics of the underlying
mortgage product.   

(1)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.    

          We also own approximately $93 million of second lien ABS RMBS non-insured securities, representing 80.2% of amortized cost.
Approximately $39 million, or 41.9%, of this portfolio are 2006 and 2007 vintage years. Together with the first lien non-insured ABS RMBS in the table above, this comprises our
$1.64 billion of non-insured ABS RMBS.   

          At
December 31, 2008, $426 million or 20.6% of the total ABS RMBS securities are insured by 6 bond insurers and 66.4% of these insured securities were rated investment
grade. The following table shows our insured ABS RMBS portfolio at December 31, 2008 by vintage year for the first lien and second lien collateral.   

(1)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.    

          Other CDO totaled $778 million, with 94.0% rated investment grade, at December 31, 2008. Other CDO consist primarily of obligations
secured by high yield and investment grade corporate credits including cash flow CLO, synthetic CDO, trust preferred CDO, market value CDO, project finance CDO, CDO squared, collateralized bond
obligations and other CLO.   

          The
following table presents realized and unrealized capital gains and losses and principal transactions on our other CDO portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2008.   

(1)    For
the year ended December 31, 2008, there were no change in intent write-downs.    
  96  

Cash flow CLO are structures where the underlying assets are primarily comprised of below investment grade senior secured corporate loans. The collateral is actively managed by external
managers that monitor the collateral performance. The underlying investments are well diversified across industries and among issuers and there have been no downgrades in the portfolio. Cash flow CLO
issues differ by seniority. A transaction will typically issue notes with various capital structure class (i.e. Aaa, Aa, A, etc.) as well as equity. The following table shows our cash flow CLO
portfolio at December 31, 2008 by vintage year, based upon our participation in the capital structure.   

(1)    May
not be consistent with current ratings due to downgrades.
      (2)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.    

          Synthetic CDO primarily consist of a portfolio of corporate credit default swaps ("CDS") which are collateralized by Aaa rated LIBOR-based
securities (i.e. "fully funded" synthetic CDO). Our synthetic CDO collateral primarily is actively managed by an external manager monitoring the CDS selection and performance. The following
table shows our synthetic CDO at December 31, 2008 by vintage year, based upon our participation in the capital structure.   

(1)    May
not be consistent with current ratings due to downgrades.
      (2)    Amortized
cost includes other-than-temporary impairment charges, as applicable.    

          Trust preferred CDO underlying assets are primarily comprised of portfolios of preferred securities issued by a diversified portfolio of domestic
banks and other financial institutions. The underlying collateral for our trust preferred CDO portfolio is not actively managed and is diversified by issuer, predominately regional banks, with a small
percentage of insurance companies.   

          Market
value CDO are structurally similar to cash flow CLO. The primary difference is that the market value of the underlying assets is managed in order to enhance returns and the
structure is governed by market value based tests. The managers are also offered more flexibility to purchase other asset types including secured leveraged loans, public and private high yield bonds,
structured products, mezzanine investments, and equities.   

          Project
finance CDO underlying assets are primarily below investment grade senior secured project finance loans and energy finance investments.   

          CDO
squared transactions are CDOs where the underlying assets are primarily other cash flow CLO tranches, typically with an average rating of Baa.   

          Other
asset-backed securities totaled $1.01 billion at December 31, 2008 and consist primarily of investments secured by portfolios of credit card loans, auto loans,
student loans and other consumer and corporate obligations. As of December 31, 2008, the net unrealized losses on these securities were $232 million. Additionally, 24.3% of the other
asset-backed securities that are rated Aaa, Aa, A and Baa were insured by five bond insurers. During 2008, we sold $229 million of these securities recognizing a loss of $1 million. In
addition, we acquired   

  97  

$46 million
of securities during 2008. We also collected $177 million of principal repayments consistent with the expected cash flows during 2008.   

            Insured Investments       As of December 31, 2008, we hold $12.29 billion of fixed income securities that are insured by bond
insurers,
including approximately $11.58 billion or 53.0% of our municipal bond portfolio, $426 million of our ABS RMBS and $252 million of our other asset-backed securities. Additionally,
we hold $4 million of corporate bonds and $(13) million in credit default swaps that were directly issued by these bond insurers. 53.0% of our municipal bond portfolio is insured by nine bond
insurers and 38.4% of these securities have a Moody's equivalent rating of Aaa or Aa. Our practices for acquiring and monitoring municipal bonds primarily are based on the quality of the primary
obligor. As of December 31, 2008, we believe the valuations already reflected a decline in the value of the insurance, and further related declines if any, are not expected to be material.
While the valuation of these holdings may be temporarily impacted by negative and rapidly changing market developments, we continue to have the intent and ability to hold the bonds and expect to
receive all of the contractual cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, 48.2% of our insured municipal bond portfolio was insured by MBIA, Inc., 24.7% by Ambac Financial Group, Inc.,
19.8% by Financial Security Assurance Inc. and 2.7% by Financial Guarantee Insurance Company.   

          Credit
ratings without the insurance guarantee are not available in certain cases where the issuer does not solicit the rating agency to provide the rating without the insurance
guarantee and, as a result, the rating agency does not disclose it. The ratings of our holdings with insurance guarantee generally follow the rating of the bond insurer. In cases where the rating of
the bond insurer is lower than that of the underlying security, the rating without insurance guarantee could be higher than that with the guarantee.   

  98  

The
following table shows our insured investments by Moody's equivalent rating with and without the impact to the rating from the insurance guarantee, where it is available, as of
December 31, 2008.   

Equity securities       Equity securities include common stocks, real estate investment trust equity investments and non-redeemable preferred
stocks. The equity securities portfolio was $2.81 billion at December 31, 2008 compared to $5.26 billion at December 31, 2007. The decrease is primarily attributable to
sales of equity securities with realized gains of $751 million and realized losses of $1.45 billion. Gross unrealized gains totaled $112 million at December 31, 2008
compared to $1.10 billion at December 31, 2007. Gross unrealized losses totaled $444 million at December 31, 2008 compared to $106 million at December 31,
2007.   

          At
December 31, 2008, equity securities included $917 million effectively carried on a lower of cost or fair value basis due to the nature of the investment management
style employed. There were no equity securities effectively carried on a lower of cost or fair value as of December 31, 2007.   

            Mortgage loans       Our mortgage loan portfolio, which is primarily held in the Allstate Financial portfolio, was $10.23 billion and
$10.83 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and comprised primarily of loans secured by first mortgages on developed commercial real estate. Geographical and property
type diversification are key considerations used to manage our exposure. The portfolio is diversified across several property types. Our largest exposure to any metropolitan area is also highly
diversified, with the largest exposure not exceeding   

  99  

10%
of the portfolio. The average debt service coverage ratio represents the amount of cash flows available by the borrower to meet its principal and interest payment obligations. The average debt
service coverage ratio of the portfolio as of December 31, 2008 was approximately 2.0, and only approximately 3.1% of the mortgage loan portfolio had a debt service coverage ratio under 1.0.   

We
closely monitor our commercial mortgage loan portfolio on a loan-by-loan basis. Loans with an estimated collateral value less than the loan balance, as well as
loans with other characteristics indicative of higher than normal credit risks, are reviewed at least quarterly for purposes of establishing valuation allowances and placing loans on
non-accrual status as necessary. The underlying collateral values are based upon either discounted property cash flow projections or a commonly used valuation method that utilizes a
one-year projection of expected annual income divided by a market based expected rate of return. We had $4 million of realized capital losses related to valuation allowances on
mortgage loans for the year ended December 31, 2008 and had no realized capital losses related to valuation allowances on mortgage loans for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Additionally, realized capital losses due to changes in intent to hold mortgage loans to maturity totaled $74 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. For further detail, see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.   

             Limited partnership interests    consist of investments in private equity/debt funds, real estate funds and hedge funds. The overall limited
partnership interests portfolio is well diversified across a number of metrics including fund sponsors, vintage years, strategies, geography (including international), and company/property types.   

The
following table presents information about our limited partnership interests as of December 31, 2008.   

Our
aggregate limited partnership exposure represented 2.9% and 2.1% of total invested assets as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively.   

          The
following table shows the income from our limited partnership interests by fund type and accounting classification for the years ended December 31.   

(1)    Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, income from EMA LP is reported in realized capital gains and losses. EMA LP income for periods prior
to the fourth quarter of 2008 is reported in net investment income.    

          Loss from limited partnership interests was $35 million for 2008 versus income of $293 million for 2007. The loss from limited
partnership interests in 2008 compared to income in 2007 is primarily related to losses from partnerships accounted for under equity method of accounting resulting from reduced valuations on the net
asset value of the partnerships. Further, income on EMA LP is recognized on a delay due to the availability of the related financial statements. The recognition of income on hedge funds is
primarily on a one-month delay and the income recognition on private equity/debt funds and real estate funds are generally on a three-month delay as of December 31, 2008. As such,
the income recognized through December 31, 2008 for EMA LP may not include the full impact for calendar year investment market changes as they will ultimately impact the valuation of the
underlying assets or liabilities within the partnerships. Limited partnership interests accounted for under the cost method of accounting recognize income only upon cash distributions by the
partnership.   

  100  

Short-term investments       Our short-term investment portfolio was $8.91 billion and $3.06 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in short-term investments was primarily due to liquidity management actions. We invest available cash balances primarily in
taxable short-term securities having a final maturity date or redemption date of less than one year.   

            Other investments       Our other investments as of December 31, 2008 are comprised primarily of $1.04 billion of bank loans,
$1.14 billion of policy loans and $301 million of certain derivatives, including credit default swaps. Bank loans are comprised primarily of senior secured corporate loans and are
carried at amortized cost. Policy loans are carried at the unpaid principal balances.   

             Credit default swaps ("CDS")    are utilized for both buying and selling credit protection against a specified credit event. In selling
protection, CDS are used to replicate fixed income securities and to complement the cash market when credit exposure to certain issuers is not available or when the derivative alternative is less
expensive than the cash market alternative. We are not selling protection to acquire revenues as a business activity. When buying protection, the objective is to mitigate credit risk on fixed income
holdings in our portfolio. Credit risk includes both default risk and market value exposure due to spread widening. CDS typically have a five-year term. The following table shows the CDS notional
amounts and fair value of protection bought or sold as of December 31, 2008.   

(1)    Included
as a component of other investments and other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.    

          In buying and selling protection CDS, we buy or sell credit protection on an identified single name, a basket of names in a
first-to-default ("FTD") structure or credit derivative index ("CDX") that is generally investment grade, and in return pay or receive periodic premiums through expiration or
termination of the agreement. With single name CDS, the premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced name's public fixed maturity cash
instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With FTD baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a
high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket and correlation between the names. CDX index is utilized to take a position on multiple (generally 125) credit entities.
Credit events are typically defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, or restructuring, depending on the nature of the reference credit. If a credit event occurs, we settle with the counterparty, either
through physical settlement or cash settlement. In a physical settlement, a reference asset is delivered by the buyer of protection to the seller of protection, in exchange for cash payment at par,
while in a cash settlement, the seller pays the difference between par and the prescribed value of the reference asset. When such an event occurs in a single name or FTD basket (for FTD, the first
such event occurring for any one name in the basket), the contract terminates at time of settlement. For CDX index, the reference entity's name incurring the credit event is removed from the index
while the contract continues until expiration. The maximum payout on a CDS is the contract notional amount. For all CDS, once a credit event and settlement has occurred, there may be subsequent
recoveries. Recovery amounts, if any, vary and they may reduce the ultimate amount of net gain or loss.   

            Unrealized net capital losses       See Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements for further disclosures regarding unrealized
losses on fixed
income and equity securities and factors considered in determining whether securities are other-than-temporarily impaired. The unrealized net capital losses totaled
$8.81 billion as of December 31, 2008, compared to unrealized net capital gains of $1.91 billion at December 31, 2007 as a result of significantly widening credit spreads
and declining equity markets.   

  101  

The
following table presents unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax and after-tax at December 31.   

(1)    The
insurance reserves adjustment represents the amount by which the reserve balance would increase if the net unrealized gains in the applicable product
portfolios were realized and reinvested at current lower interest rates, resulting in a premium deficiency. Although we evaluate premium deficiencies on the combined performance of our life insurance
and immediate annuities with life contingencies, the adjustment primarily relates to structured settlement annuities with life contingencies, in addition to annuity buy-outs and certain
payout annuities with life contingencies.
      (2)    The
DAC and DSI adjustment represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains or losses in
the respective product portfolios were realized. Recapitalization of the DAC and DSI balances is limited to the originally deferred costs plus interest.    

          The net unrealized loss for the fixed income portfolio totaled $8.50 billion, comprised of $2.54 billion of gross unrealized gains
and $11.04 billion of gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008. This is compared to a net unrealized gain for the fixed income portfolio totaling $956 million at
December 31, 2007, comprised of $3.15 billion of gross unrealized gains and $2.20 billion of gross unrealized losses.   

  102  

Gross
unrealized gains and losses on fixed income securities by type and sector are provided in the table below.   

(1)    Included
in par value are zero-coupon securities that are generally purchased at a deep discount to the par value that is received at maturity.    

          The
banking, financial services, consumer goods, and utilities sectors had the highest concentration of gross unrealized losses in our corporate fixed income securities portfolio at
December 31, 2008. The gross unrealized losses in these sectors were primarily the result of significantly widening credit spreads. As of December 31, 2008, $3.18 billion or 82.0%
of the gross unrealized losses in the corporate fixed income portfolio and $6.60 billion or 92.1% of the gross unrealized losses in the remaining fixed income securities related to securities
rated investment grade. Credit spreads are the additional yield on fixed income securities above the risk-free rate (typically defined as the yield on U.S. Treasury securities) that market
participants
require to compensate them for assuming credit, liquidity and/or prepayment risks for fixed income securities with consistent terms. Credit spreads vary with the market's perception of risk and
liquidity in a specific issuer or specific sectors. Credit spreads can widen (increase) or tighten (decrease) and may offset or add to the effects of risk-free interest rate changes in the
valuation of fixed income securities from period to period.   

          All
securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 were included in our portfolio monitoring process for determining whether declines in value are other than
temporary.   

  103  

The
following tables show the composition by credit quality using Moody's equivalent rating of the fixed income securities with gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008.   

(1)    Moody's
equivalent rating will not necessarily tie to ratings distributions from the NAIC due to potential timing differences between the various rating
suppliers and the number of external rating agencies used in the determination.    

The
scheduled maturity dates for fixed income securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 are shown below. Actual maturities may differ from those scheduled as
a result of prepayments by the issuers.   

(1)    Because
of the potential for prepayment, these securities are not categorized based on their contractual maturities.    
  104  

For
fixed income securities, 60.4% of the gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008 were from $5.83 billion of securities with a fair value below 70% of amortized cost,
or 8.5% of our fixed income portfolio, at December 31, 2008. The percentage of fair value to amortized cost for fixed income securities with gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2008
are shown in the following table.   

(1)    Included
in par value are $9.66 billion of zero-coupon securities that are generally purchased at a deep discount to the par value that
is received at maturity.
      (2)    Illiquid
portfolios represent $3.80 billion of net unrealized losses and $2.36 billion of fair value.
      (3)    Illiquid
portfolios represent $4.62 billion of net unrealized losses and $7.90 billion of fair value.    

          The following table presents gross unrealized losses by type of fixed income security with a fair value below 70% of amortized cost.   

We
continue to believe that the unrealized losses on these securities are not predictive of the ultimate performance. The unrealized losses should reverse over the remaining lives of the
securities. As of December 31, 2008, we have the intent and ability to hold these securities to recovery. Our ability to do so is substantially enhanced by our liquidity position, which
cushions us from the need to liquidate securities with significant unrealized losses to meet cash obligations. During 2008, our fixed income securities portfolio provided approximately
$8.61 billion in principal and interest cash flows, of which substantially all have been received in accordance with the contractual terms.   

  105  

The equity portfolio is comprised of securities in the following sectors.   

(1)    Other
consists primarily of index-based securities.    

          The net unrealized loss for the equity portfolio totaled $332 million, comprised of $112 million of unrealized gains and
$444 million of unrealized losses at December 31, 2008. This is compared to a net unrealized gain for the equity portfolio totaling $990 million at December 31, 2007,
comprised of $1.10 billion of unrealized gains and $106 million of unrealized losses. Within the equity portfolio, the losses were primarily concentrated in the consumer goods, banking,
financial services, energy, basic industry, utilities, real estate and technology sectors. The unrealized losses in these sectors were company and sector specific. All securities in an unrealized loss
position at December 31, 2008 were included in our portfolio monitoring process for determining whether declines in value are other than temporary.   

            Portfolio Monitoring       We have a comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify and evaluate, on a case-by-case basis,
fixed income and equity securities whose carrying value may be other-than-temporarily impaired. The process includes a quarterly review of all securities using a screening
process to identify situations where the fair value, compared to amortized cost for fixed income securities and cost for equity securities, is below established thresholds for certain time periods, or
which are identified through other monitoring criteria such as ratings, ratings downgrades or payment defaults. The securities identified, in addition to other securities for which we may have a
concern, are evaluated based on facts and circumstances for inclusion on our watch-list. All investments in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 were included in our
portfolio monitoring process for determining whether declines in value were other than temporary.   

          We
also conduct a portfolio review to recognize impairment on securities in an unrealized loss position for which we do not have the intent and ability to hold until recovery as a result
of approved programs involving the disposition of investments for reasons such as negative developments that would change the view of long term investors and their intent to continue to hold the
investment, subsequent credit deterioration of an issuer or holding, subsequent further deterioration of capital markets (i.e. debt and equity) and of economic conditions, subsequent further
deterioration in the financial services and real estate industries, changes in duration, revisions to strategic asset allocations, liquidity needs, unanticipated federal income tax situations
involving capital gains and capital loss carrybacks and carryforwards with specific expiration dates, investment risk mitigation actions, and other new facts and circumstances that would cause a
change in our previous intent to hold a security to recovery or maturity.   

  106  

The
following table summarizes fixed income and equity securities in a gross unrealized loss position according to significance, aging and investment grade classification.   

(1)    For
fixed income securities, cost represents amortized cost.
      (2)    At
December 31, 2008, 93.0% of the fixed income securities portfolio was rated investment grade compared to 92.7% at December 31, 2007.    

          The
largest individual unrealized loss was $17 million for category (I), $105 million for category (II), $38 million for category (III) and
$27 million for category (IV) as of December 31, 2008.   

          Categories (I)
and (II) have generally been adversely affected by overall economic conditions including interest rate increases and the market's evaluation of certain
sectors. The degree to which and/or length of time that the securities have been in an unrealized loss position does not suggest that these securities pose a high risk of being
other-than-temporarily impaired.   

          Categories (III)
and (IV) have primarily been historically adversely affected by industry and issue specific, or issuer specific conditions.   

At
December 31, 2008, Category (III) for fixed income was comprised primarily of fair values of $361 million of ABS RMBS, $133 million of cash flow CLO,
$130 million of corporate private and $94 million of CMBS, for a total of $718 million with unrealized losses of $444 million, $420 million, $139 million and
$408 million, respectively, for a total of $1.41 billion unrealized losses. No other security type individually represents more than $56 million of fair value within this
category.   

          Of
the unrealized losses on below investment grade securities, 17.2% were in significant unrealized loss positions (greater than or equal to 20% of amortized cost) for six or more
consecutive months prior to December 31, 2008. Included among the securities rated below investment grade are high-yield bonds and securities that were investment grade when
originally acquired. We mitigate the credit risk of investing in below investment grade fixed income securities by limiting the percentage of our fixed income portfolio invested in such securities,
through diversification of the portfolio, active credit monitoring and portfolio management activities. We continue to believe that the unrealized losses on these securities are not predictive of the
ultimate performance.   

  107  

Whenever
our initial analysis indicates that a fixed income security's unrealized loss of 20% or more for at least 36 months or any equity security's unrealized loss of 20% or
more for at least 12 months is temporary, additional evaluations and management approvals are required to substantiate that a write-down is not appropriate. As of
December 31, 2008, one equity security with an unrealized loss of $4 million met these criteria.   

          The
following table contains the individual securities with the largest unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008. No other fixed income or equity security had an unrealized loss
greater than $33 million or 0.3% of the total unrealized loss on fixed income and equity securities.   

We
also monitor the quality of our fixed income and bank loan portfolios by categorizing certain investments as "problem," "restructured," or "potential problem." Problem fixed income
securities and bank loans are in default with respect to principal or interest and/or are investments issued by companies that have gone into bankruptcy subsequent to our acquisition or loan.
Restructured fixed income and bank loan investments have rates and terms that are not consistent with market rates or terms prevailing at the time of the restructuring. Potential problem fixed income
or bank loan investments are current with respect to contractual principal and/or interest, but because of other facts and circumstances, we have concerns regarding the borrower's ability to pay
future
principal and interest, which causes us to believe these investments may be classified as problem or restructured in the future.   

          The
following table summarizes problem, restructured and potential problem fixed income securities and bank loans, which are reported in other investments, at December 31.   

(1)    The
difference between par value and amortized cost of $2.00 billion at December 31, 2008 is primarily attributable to write-downs. Par value
has been reduced by principal payments.
      (2)    Cumulative
write-downs recognized only reflects impairment write-downs related to investments within the problem, potential problem and restructured
categories.    
  108  

At December 31, 2008, amortized cost for the problem category was $228 million and was comprised of $83 million of corporates (primarily privately placed),
$49 million of financial sector-related holdings, $25 million of municipal bonds, $19 million of real estate investment trusts and $15 million of bank loans. Also included
were $21 million of market value CDO, $10 million of ABS CDO, $5 million of ABS RMBS, and $1 million of Alt-A. The increase over December 31, 2007 is
attributable to the addition of fixed income and bank loan holdings that either are in default with respect to principal or interest and/or are investments issued by companies that went into
bankruptcy during the period. The amortized cost of problem investments with a fair value less than 70% of amortized cost totaled $74 million, with unrealized losses of $34 million and
fair value of $40 million.   

          At
December 31, 2008, amortized cost for the potential problem category was $707 million and was comprised of $218 million of Alt-A, $132 million
of other CDO, $74 million of ABS RMBS, $13 million of Other ABS and $6 million of CRE CDO. Also included were $86 million of municipal bonds, $80 million of
corporates (primarily privately placed home builders and suppliers), $47 million of financial sector-related holdings, $37 million of foreign government holdings and $14 million
of bank loans. The increase over December 31, 2007 is primarily attributable to the additions of certain real estate-related holdings, including securities collateralized by residential and
commercial mortgage loans, as well as market value, cash flow and synthetic CDO. Also contributing to the increase were financial sector-related holdings and corporates, primarily privately placed.
The amortized cost of potential problem investments with a fair value less than 70% of amortized cost totaled $269 million, with unrealized losses of $161 million and fair value of
$108 million.   

          We
evaluated each of these investments through our portfolio monitoring process at December 31, 2008 and recorded write-downs when appropriate. We further concluded that any
remaining unrealized losses on these investments were temporary in nature and that we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until recovery.   

            Net Investment Income       The following table presents net investment income for the years ended December 31.   

(1)    Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, income from EMA LP is reported in realized capital gains and losses. EMA LP income for periods prior
to the fourth quarter of 2008 is reported in net investment income. The amount of EMA LP income included in net investment income was $24 million in 2008, $198 million in 2007 and
$91 million in 2006. The amount of EMA LP loss included in realized capital gains and losses was $97 million in 2008.    

Total investment expenses decreased $233 million in 2008 compared to 2007, after increasing $38 million in 2007 compared to 2006.
The 2008 decrease was primarily due to lower expenses associated with a lower amount of collateral received in connection with securities lending transactions. The average amount of collateral held in
connection with securities lending was approximately $2.46 billion in 2008 compared to approximately $4.55 billion in 2007, as a result of actions to reduce our securities lending
balances.   

  109  

Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses       The following table presents the components of realized capital gains and losses and the related
tax effect for
the years ended December 31.   

(1)    To
conform to the current period presentation, certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified.
      (2)    Impairment
write-downs reflect issue specific other-than-temporary declines in fair value, including instances where we could not
reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary.
      (3)    Change
in intent write-downs reflect instances where we cannot assert a positive intent to hold until recovery.
      (4)    Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, income from EMA LP is reported in realized capital gains and losses. EMA LP income for periods prior
to the fourth quarter of 2008 is reported in net investment income.    

             Sales    net realized losses in 2008 were due to net realized losses on equity securities of
$701 million comprised of gross losses of $1.45 billion and gross gains of $751 million. The gross losses primarily resulted from the execution of tax planning strategies
primarily within our equity portfolios that are effectively carried on a lower of cost or fair value basis to realize capital loss carryback benefits. The net realized gains on sales in 2007 were
primarily due to net realized gains on equity securities of $1.14 billion comprised of gross gains of $1.39 billion and gross losses of $252 million. The gross gains were
attributable to our continuing tactical reallocation of equity securities in the Property-Liability portfolio.   

          The
ten largest losses from sales of individual securities for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $239 million and ranged from $12 million to
$46 million. Five securities totaling $54 million were in an unrealized loss position greater than or equal to 20% of amortized cost for fixed income securities or cost for equity
securities for a period of less than six consecutive months. One security totaling $13 million was in an unrealized loss position greater than or equal to 20% of amortized cost for fixed income
securities or cost for equity securities for a period of more than six but less than twelve consecutive months.   

          Our
largest aggregate loss on sales and write-downs are shown in the following table by issuer and its affiliates. No other issuer together with its affiliates had an aggregated loss on
sales and write-downs greater than 0.8% of the total gross loss on sales and write-downs on fixed income and equity securities.   

(1)    Holdings
include fixed income securities at amortized cost or equity securities at cost.    
  110  

The circumstances of the above losses are considered to be security or issue specific and are not expected to have a material effect on other
holdings in our portfolios.   

          We
may sell or change our intent to hold a security until recovery for impaired fixed income or equity securities that were in an unrealized loss position at the previous reporting date,
or other investments where the fair value has declined below the amortized cost or cost, in situations where significant unanticipated new facts and circumstances emerge or existing facts and
circumstances increase in significance and are anticipated to adversely impact a security's future valuations more than previously expected; including negative developments that would change the view
of long term investors and their intent to continue to hold the investment, subsequent credit deterioration of an issuer or holding, subsequent further deterioration in capital markets
(i.e. debt and equity) and of economic conditions, subsequent further deterioration in the financial services and real estate industries, liquidity needs, unanticipated federal income tax
situations involving capital gains and capital loss carrybacks and carryforwards with specific expiration dates, investment risk mitigation actions, and other new facts and circumstances that would
cause a change in our previous intent to hold a security to recovery or maturity.   

          Upon
approval of programs involving the expected disposition of investments, portfolio managers identify a population of suitable investments, typically larger than needed to accomplish
the objective, from which specific securities are selected to sell. Due to our change in intent to hold until recovery, we recognize impairments on investments within the population that are in an
unrealized loss position. Further unrealized loss positions that develop subsequent to the original write-down are recognized in the reporting period in which they occur through the date
the program is closed. The program is closed when the objectives of the program are accomplished or a decision is made not to fully complete it, at which time an evaluation is performed of any
remaining securities and where appropriate they are redesignated as having the intent to hold to recovery. Reasons resulting in a decision not to complete an approved program include matters such as
the mitigation of concerns that led to the initial decision, changes in priorities or new complications that emerge from significant unanticipated developments, such as subsequent significant
deterioration which we view to be temporary in nature, to the point at which securities could only be sold at prices below our view of their intrinsic values, or subsequent favorable developments that
support a return to having the intent to hold to recovery. Subsequent other-than-temporary impairment evaluations utilize the amortized cost or cost basis that reflect the
write-downs. Fixed income securities subject to change in intent write-downs, including those redesignated as intent to hold, continue to earn investment income and any discount or premium from the
amortized cost basis that reflects the write-downs is recognized using the effective yield method over the expected life of the security.   

          As
previously described above, it is not possible to reliably identify a reasonably likely circumstance that would result in a change in intent to hold securities to recovery leading to
the reporting of additional realized capital losses, since they result from significant unanticipated changes. Our fixed income securities and equity securities have gross unrealized losses of
$11.04 billion and $444 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008 that we concluded were temporary in nature and we have the intent and ability to hold the securities until
recovery.   

             Impairment write-downs    for the years ended December 31 are presented in the following table.   

$1.02 billion,
or 67.9% of the fixed income security write-downs in 2008 related to impaired securities that were performing in line with anticipated or contractual cash flows,
but which were written down primarily because of expected deterioration in the performance of the underlying collateral or our assessment of the probability of future default. As of
December 31, 2008, for these securities, there have been no defaults or defaults impacting classes lower in the capital structure. $194 million of the fixed income security write-downs
in 2008 primarily related to securities experiencing a significant departure from anticipated cash flows; however, we believe they retain economic value and $126 million related to securities
for which future cash flows are very uncertain. Equity securities were written down primarily due to the length of time and extent fair value was below cost, considering
our assessment of the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issuer, including relevant industry conditions and trends.   

  111  

Impairment
write-downs and cash received, inclusive of sales, on these investments for the year ended December 31, 2008 are presented in the following table. Notwithstanding our
intent and ability to hold these securities with impairment write-downs, we concluded that we could not reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary.   

(1)    Written
down primarily because of expected deterioration in the performance of the underlying collateral or our assessment of the probability of future
default. As of December 31, 2008, for the securities with direct interest in the lender, there have been no defaults. For securities supported by collateral, there have been no defaults or
defaults have occurred in classes lower in the capital structure.
      (2)    Experienced
a significant departure from anticipated residual cash flows. While these fixed income security write-downs were valued at a significant
discount to cost, we believe these securities retain economic value.
      (3)    Cash
received includes both income and principal collected during the period and proceeds upon sale.
      (4)    Impairment
write-downs on our illiquid portfolios were $882 million.    
  112  

Change in intent write-downs    totaling $1.75 billion in 2008 included $1.56 billion for fixed income securities,
$120 million for equity securities, $74 million for mortgage loans and $3 million for other investments compared to $84 million for fixed income securities,
$32 million for equity securities, $30 million for mortgage loans and $1 million for other investments in 2007. The change in intent write-downs in 2008 were a result of our risk
mitigation and return optimization programs, enterprise asset allocations and ongoing comprehensive reviews of our portfolios.   

          Change
in intent write-downs for year ended December 31, 2008 are presented in the table below.   

($ in millions)    

Fair value of 
outstanding 
change in intent 
assets    

Criteria

Security type    
     
   SFAS 
No. 157 
level    
     
   Net realized 
capital loss (3)     

Risk mitigation   

Targeted reductions (1)  in commercial  
     
  CRE CDO  

3  
     
   $  
  27  
     
   $  
  (331  
  )  

real estate exposure where it is  

anticipated that future downside risk  
     
  CMBS  

2  

(22  
  )  

remains. Considerations included  

3  

29  

(203  
  )  

position held in the capital structure,  

vintage year, illiquidity and  
     
  Mortgage loans  

3  

127  

(73  
  )  

deteriorating fundamentals.  

Targeted reductions (1)  in residential real  

estate where management believes there  
     
  Prime  

2  

(9  
  )  

is a risk of future material declines in  

3  

(11  
  )  

price in the event of continued  

deterioration in the economy.  
     
  Alt-A  

3  

34  

(138  
  )  

Considerations included position held in  

the capital structure, projected  
     
  ABS RMBS  

3  

51  

(281  
  )  

performance of the collateral, and  

expected internal rates of return.  

Targeted reductions (1)  in financial  
      
   Financial sector  

2  

14  

(178  
   )  

sector exposure included securities  

3  

(33  
  )  

issued by certain regional banks and  

certain large financial institutions.  

Other  

2  

4  

(18  
  )  

Total risk mitigation  

286  

(1,297  
  )  

Individual identification  

705  

(283  
  )  

Enterprise-wide asset allocation  

5  

(164  
  )  

Other  

(8  
  )  

Total  

$  
  996  
     
   $  
  (1,752  
  ) (2)   

(1)    Targeted
reductions are made from identified specific investments.
      (2)    Change
in intent write-downs on our illiquid portfolios were $997 million.
      (3)    Change
in intent write-downs are related to the risk mitigation targeted reduction for this security type for the year and not for the outstanding change in
intent assets at December 31, 2008.    
  113  

Investments for which we had changed our intent to hold to recovery as of June 30, 2008 totaled $6.39 billion and included
$3.31 billion as part of the risk mitigation and return optimization programs, $2.39 billion of securities as part of our enterprise-wide asset allocation program and
$688 million related to individual securities. The following table summarizes the activity related to investments for which we had changed our intent to hold.   

(1)    Net
unrealized capital losses on these re-designated investments were $289 million as of December 31, 2008.
      (2)    Net
proceeds from the sales of risk mitigation and return optimization actions totaled $1.24 billion with an additional loss of $104 million
or 92% of fair values reported at June 30, 2008.
      (3)    Comprised
$865 million and $254 million for which we changed our intent to hold in the third and fourth quarter of 2008, respectively, due to
unanticipated changes in facts and circumstances.
      (4)    Includes
change in intent write-downs of $453 million and $241 million in the third and fourth quarter of 2008, respectively, and impairment
write-downs of $122 million and $15 million in the third and fourth quarter of 2008, respectively.    

Our original objective in our June 30, 2008 risk mitigation and return optimization program was to reduce our exposure to the identified
investments in an orderly fashion prior to additional significant negative impacts. Though we were able to complete a considerable portion of the reduction, approximately $1.24 billion of this
program, during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 the financial markets experienced additional and severe dislocation. A series of events, which includes the effects of failures of large financial
institutions and intermediaries and various intervention by the government, significantly increased the level of uncertainty in the market. These conditions drove significant volatility in the levels
of liquidity and put additional and immediate downward pressures on prices of certain of these investments in respect to our estimated intrinsic values. As a result of these market conditions, which
have worsened, we determined that we would not be able to sell certain of these investments at our view of their intrinsic values.   

Investments
re-designated at October 1, 2008 as having the intent to hold to recovery due to our inability to dispose of them for values equal to or greater than our
view of their intrinsic value are presented in the following table.   

(1)    Includes
corporate, corporate privately placed securities and equity securities with financial sector exposure.    
  114  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recognized $147 million of losses related to a change in our intent to hold certain
investments with unrealized losses in the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial segments until they recover in value. The change in our intent was primarily related to strategic asset allocation
decisions and ongoing comprehensive reviews of our portfolios as well as a liquidity strategy in the Property-Liability portfolio. At December 31, 2007, the fair value of securities for which
we did not have the intent to hold until recovery totaled $1.68 billion.   

             Valuation and settlement of derivative instruments    net realized capital losses totaling $794 million for the year ended
December 31, 2008 included $1.28 billion losses on valuation of derivative instruments, including $510 million of losses for the accounting valuation of embedded options in equity
indexed notes and convertible fixed income securities, partially offset by $486 million of gains on the settlement of derivative instruments. For the year ended December 31, 2007, net
realized capital gains on the valuation and settlement of derivative instruments totaled $62 million.   

          At
December 31, 2008, our securities with embedded options totaled $1.46 billion and decreased in fair value from December 31, 2007 by $934 million, comprised
of realized capital losses on valuation of $510 million, net sales activity of $350 million, and unrealized net capital losses reported in other comprehensive income ("OCI") of
$74 million for the host securities. Net unrealized capital losses were further increased by $7 million due to amortization and impairment write-downs on the host securities. The change
in fair value of embedded options is bifurcated from the host securities, separately valued and reported in realized capital gains and losses, while the change in value of the host securities is
reported in OCI. Total amortized cost exceeded total fair value by $22 million at December 31, 2008. Valuation gains and losses are converted into cash for securities with embedded
options upon our election to sell these securities. In the event the economic value of the options is not realized, we will recover the par value if held to maturity unless the issuer of the note
defaults. Total par value exceeded fair value by $346 million at December 31, 2008.   

Losses
on derivatives used for interest rate risk management but which have not been designated as accounting hedges, primarily in our duration management programs, were related to
changing interest rates and, to a lesser extent, widening credit spreads.   

          Gains
from the risk reduction programs, primarily in our equity hedge program, were related to declines in the fair value of S P related securities and losses were experienced in our
income generation programs and from the valuation changes of embedded options in fixed income securities.   

          A
changing interest rate environment will drive changes in our portfolio duration targets at a tactical level. A duration target and range is established with an economic view of
liabilities relative to a long-term investment portfolio view. Tactical duration management is accomplished through both cash market transactions
including new purchases and derivative activities that generate realized gains and losses. As a component of our approach to managing portfolio duration, realized gains and losses on certain
derivative instruments are most appropriately considered in conjunction with the unrealized gains and losses on the fixed income portfolio. This approach mitigates the impacts of general interest rate
changes to the overall financial condition of the Company.   

  115  

The table below presents the realized capital gains and losses (pre-tax) on the valuation and settlement of derivative instruments shown by underlying exposure and derivative
strategy for the years ended December 31.   

2008    
     
   2007    
     
   2006    
     
   2008 Explanations    

($ in millions)    
     
   Valuation    
     
   Settlements    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    

Risk reduction     
       Property Liability    
        Portfolio duration 
          management  
     
    $  

38  
     
    $  

(48  
    )  
    $  

(10  
    )  
    $  

(50  
    )  
    $  

(1  
    )  

Net short interest rate futures and municipal interest rate swaps are used to offset the effects of changing interest rates on a portion of the Property-Liability fixed income portfolio that is reported in unrealized net capital gains or losses in
OCI. The short interest rate future contracts are exchange traded, daily cash settled and can be exited at any time for minimal additional cost. The 2008 year-to-date ("YTD") settlement loss on futures resulted from decreases in risk free
interest rates. Unrealized gains on the fixed income portfolio caused by decreasing interest rates did not offset settlement losses due to widening credit spreads. The municipal interest rate swaps can be terminated at any time for minimal additional
cost. Periodic settlements occur quarterly. The 2008 YTD valuation gain represents the changing value of expected future settlements and resulted from increases in the municipal interest rates. Unrealized losses on the municipal fixed income
portfolio, caused by widening credit spreads, more than offset the valuation gains on the derivative.  

Interest rate spike 
          exposure  

(81  
  )  
     
  (16  
  )  
     
  (97  
  )  
     
  (20  
  )  

Interest rate swaption contracts, with approximately one-year terms, and exchange traded options on treasury futures provide an offset to declining fixed income market values resulting from potential rising interest
rates. The existing swaption contracts at December 31, 2008 protect $14.50 billion of notional principal by limiting the decline in value to approximately $1.50 billion for an increase in risk-free rates greater than approximately 150
basis points above those in effect at inception of the contracts. During 2008, $12.00 billion notional of interest rate swaption contracts, executed in the second half of 2007, expired. Additionally, $9.50 billion notional were replaced at
a lower strike price and resulted in a settlement loss being recognized. Exchange traded options on treasury futures were utilized in fourth quarter of 2008 to supplement the protection provided by swaption contracts without increasing the
counterparty risk associated with OTC contracts. The options on futures contracts at December 31, 2008 protect $4.00 billion of notional principal by limiting the decline in value to approximately $1.50 billion for an increase in
risk-free rates greater than approximately 100 basis points above those in effect at inception of the contracts. The 2008 YTD valuation loss resulted from a decrease in interest rates during the year. Interest rate swaption contracts and exchange
traded options can expire, terminate early at minimal additional cost, or the option can be exercised. If interest rates do not increase above the strike rate, the maximum remaining potential loss in 2009 is limited to the remaining unrecognized
premium cost of $11 million at December 31, 2008.  

Hedging unrealized 
          gains on equity 
          securities  

(53  
  )  
     
  473  

420  

61  

(13  
  )  
  Short S P futures were primarily used to protect unrealized gains on our equity securities portfolio reported in unrealized net capital gains or losses in accumulated OCI. The futures contracts are exchange traded,
daily cash settled and can be exited at any time for minimal additional cost. The 2008 YTD settlement gains on futures offset the decline in our unrealized gains on equity securities as equity markets declined. Exchange traded put options provide an
offset to significant declines in equity market values below a targeted level. Options can expire, terminate early or the option can be exercised. If the equity index does not fall below the put's strike price, the maximum loss on purchased puts is
limited to the amount of the premium paid. The exchange traded put options purchased during third and fourth quarter were replaced at the end of December at lower strikes and resulted in $114 million settlement gain. OTC collars, comprised of
purchased puts and written calls were terminated and resulted in $228 million settlement gain. The 2008 YTD valuation loss on options offset the increase in our unrealized gains on equity portfolios as equity markets increased during the last
few days of the year.  

Foreign currency 
          contracts  

(25  
  )  
     
  (2  
  )  
     
  (27  
  )  
     
  6  

Credit risk reduction  

48  

48  

8  

Valuation gain is the result of widening credit spreads on referenced credit entities.  

Allstate Financial    
        Duration gap 
          management  

(543  
  )  
     
  40  

(503  
  )  
     
  (27  
  )  
     
  (51  
  )  
  Interest rate caps, floors and swaps are used by Allstate Financial to align interest-rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. The contracts settle based on differences between current market rates and a
contractually specified fixed rate through expiration. The contracts can be terminated and settled at anytime with a minimal additional cost. The maximum loss on caps and floors would be limited to the amount of premium paid for the protection. The
change in valuation reflects the changing value of expected future settlements from changing interest rates, which may vary over the period of the contracts. The 2008 YTD losses, resulting from decreasing interest rates, are offset in unrealized
gains in OCI to the extent it relates to changes in risk-free rates; however, the impact of widening credit spreads more than offset this benefit.  

Anticipatory hedging  

(1  
  )  
     
  154  

153  

(30  
  )  
     
  17  
     
  Futures are used to protect investment spread from interest rate changes during mismatches in the timing of cash flows between product sales and the related investment activity. The futures contracts are exchange traded,
daily cash settled and can be exited at any time for minimal additional cost. If the cash flow mismatches are such that a positive net investment position is being hedged, there is an offset for the related investments unrealized loss in OCI. The
2008 YTD amounts reflect decreases in risk-free interest rates on a net long position as liability issuances exceeded asset acquisitions.  

Hedging of interest 
          rate exposure in 
          annuity contracts  

(22  
  )  
     
  (7  
  )  
     
  (29  
  )  
     
  (22  
  )  
     
  1  
     
  Value of expected future settlements and the associated value of future credited interest, which is reportable in future periods when incurred, decreased due to declining interest rates.  

Hedging unrealized 
          gains on equity 
          indexed notes  

7  

7  

1  

Hedge ineffectiveness  

(2  
  )  
     
  (2  
  )  
     
  (4  
  )  
     
  (13  
  )  
     
  (7  
  )  
  The hedge ineffectiveness of ($2 million) includes $416 million in realized capital losses on swaps that were offset by $414 million in realized capital gains on the hedged risk.  

116  

2008    
     
   2007    
     
   2006    
     
   2008 Explanations    

($ in millions)    
     
   Valuation    
     
   Settlements    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    

Foreign currency 
          contracts  

(1  
  )  
     
  (1  
  )  
     
  (13  
  )  
     
  (5  
  )  

Credit risk reduction  

20  

(3  
  )  
     
  17  

Valuation gain is the results of widening credit spreads on referenced credit entities.  

Other  

(27  
  )  

(27  
  )  
     
  (16  
  )  

Total Risk 
              reduction   
     
  $  
  (648  
  )  
  $  
  595  
     
  $  
  (53  
  )  
  $  
  (115  
  )  
  $  
  (59  
  )  

Income generation    

Asset replication  
      credit exposure 
        Property Liability 
        Allstate Financial 
            Total  
     
    $    

(50) 
(71) 

(121)  
     
    $    

9 
9 

18  
     
    $    

(41) 
(62) 

(103)  
     
    $    

(12) 
(18) 

(30)  
     
    $    

2 
4 

6  
     
  Credit default swaps are used to replicate fixed income securities and to complement the cash market when credit exposure to certain issuers is not available or when the derivative alternative is less expensive than the
cash market alternative. The credit default swaps typically have five year term for which we receive periodic premiums through expiration. The 2008 YTD changes in valuation are due to the widening credit spreads, and would only be converted to cash
upon disposition which can be done at any time, or if the credit event specified in the contract occurs. The maximum exposure is equal to the notional amount of the credit derivative. When the credit event specified in the contract occurs, we are
obligated to pay the counterparty the notional amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced defaulted security or similar security. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.06 billion of notional outstanding.  

Asset replication equity 
      exposure  

Property Liability  

(84  
  )  
     
  (84  
  )  
     
  16  

Settlement loss was a result of the decline in equity markets.  

Commodity derivatives   

Property Liability  

(1  
  )  
     
  (43  
  )  
     
  (44  
  )  
     
  106  

(111  
  )  
  The settlement losses are the result of decreasing returns on the underlying commodity index. There were no open positions as of December 31, 2008.  

Total Income 
          generation   
     
   $  
   
(122  
   )  
   $  
   
(109  
   )  
   $  
   
(231  
   )  
   $  
   
92  
     
   $  
   
(105  
   )  

Accounting    

Equity indexed notes  
        Allstate Financial  
     
  $  
  (290  
  )  
  $  

$  
  (290  
  )  
  $  
  38  
     
  $  
  35  
     
  Equity-indexed notes are fixed income securities that contain embedded options. The changes in valuation of the embedded equity indexed call options are reported in realized capital gains and losses. The results generally
track the performance of underlying equity indices. During 2008, one of the embedded options was valued at $0 due to the counterparty's bankruptcy. As a result, an additional $21 million of losses was reported in realized capital gains and
losses. Valuation gains and losses are converted into cash upon sale or maturity. In the event the economic value of the options is not realized, we will recover the par value of the host fixed income security if held to maturity unless the issuer of
the note defaults. Par value exceeded fair value by $167 million at December 31, 2008. Equity-indexed notes are subject to our comprehensive portfolio monitoring and watchlist processes to identify and evaluate when the carrying value may
be other-than-temporarily impaired. As a result of this process, one issue was written-down during 2008 due to the issuer's bankruptcy. The following table compares the December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 holdings
respectively.  

Conversion options in 
      fixed income securities 
        Property Liability 
        Allstate Financial  

(143 
(77  
    ) )  

(143 
(77  
    ) )  

19 
28  

46 
37  
     
  Convertible bonds are fixed income securities that contain embedded options. Changes in valuation of the embedded option are reported in realized capital gains and losses. The results generally track the performance of
underlying equities. Valuation gains and losses are converted into cash upon our election to sell these securities. In the event the economic value of the options is not realized, we will recover the par value of the host fixed income security if
held to maturity unless the issuer of the note defaults. Par value exceeded fair value by $179 million at December 31, 2008. Convertible bonds are subject to our comprehensive portfolio monitoring and watchlist processes to identify and
evaluate when the carrying value may be other-than-temporarily impaired. As a result of this process, four issues were written-down during 2008. The following table compares the December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 holdings
respectively.  

Total  

(220  
  )  

(220  
  )  
     
  47  

83  

117  

Included in the table above are net realized capital gains on the valuation and settlement of derivative instruments related to our risk
mitigation and return optimization programs initiated in 2008 totaling $256 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. These realized capital gains and losses are detailed in the
following table for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

The
following table presents the breakout by operating segment for net realized capital gains on the valuation and settlements of derivatives for the years ended December 31:   

118  

Fair Value of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities     

          The following table provides additional details regarding Level 1, 2 and 3 financial assets and financial liabilities by their
classification in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008. For further discussion of Level 1, 2 and 3 financial assets and financial liabilities, see
Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements and the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD A.   

(1)    In
accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Staff Position No. FIN 39-1,    Amendment of FASB
Interpretation No. 39   , we net all fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral or
the obligation to return cash collateral executed with the same counterparty under a master netting agreement. At December 31, 2008, the right to reclaim cash collateral was offset by
securities held, and the obligation to return collateral was $20 million.    
  119  

The following table provides a summary of changes in fair value during the year ended December 31, 2008 of Level 3 financial assets
and financial liabilities held at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2008.   

(1)    The
effect to net income of financial assets and financial liabilities totals $(2.79) billion and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations as follows: $(2.65) billion in realized capital gains and losses; $134 million in net investment income; $(6) million in interest credited to contractholder funds; and
$(270) million in life and annuity contract benefits.
      (2)    Comprises
$13 million of financial assets and $(114) million of financial liabilities.
      (3)    Comprises
$17.91 billion of investments and $(114) million of free standing derivatives included in financial liabilities.
      (4)    The
amounts represent gains and losses included in net income for the period of time that the financial asset or financial liability was determined to be in
Level 3. These gains and losses total $(1.98) billion and are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows: $(1.81) billion in realized capital gains and
losses; $103 million in net investment income; $(1) million in interest credited to contractholder funds; and $(270) million in life and annuity contract benefits.    

Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been
experienced in the market, all ABS RMBS, Alt-A, ARS backed by student loans and certain ABS and certain CMBS are categorized as Level 3. Transfers into and out of Level 3
during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 are attributable to a change in the availability of market observable information for individual securities within the respective categories.
Due to the continued lack of liquidity for the segment of the ARS market backed by student loans, certain market observable data utilized for valuation purposes became unavailable during 2008,
resulting in the transfer of securities to Level 3. As of December 31, 2008, $1.69 billion or 97.3% of our total ARS holdings were thus valued using a discounted cash flow model.
Certain inputs to the valuation model that are significant to the overall valuation and not market observable included: estimates of future coupon rates if auction failures continue, maturity
assumptions, and illiquidity premium. These same securities were classified as Level 2 measurements as of January 1, 2008. Our ARS holdings that are not backed by student loans have a
fair value equal to their corresponding par value based on market observable inputs and, therefore, continue to have a Level 2 classification. As a result of a significant decline in market
liquidity during the fourth quarter of 2008, securities in our Prime 2005 through 2007 vintages, ABS auto Aaa-rated, and our below Aaa-rated CMBS were transferred to
Level 3. For further discussion of transfers into and out of Level 3, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

  120  

The
following table presents fair value as a percent of amortized cost for Level 3 investments at December 31, 2008.   

Non-recurring investments include certain mortgage loans, limited partnership interests and other investments remeasured at fair value
due to our change in intent write-downs and other-than-temporary impairments at December 31, 2008.   

  121  

MARKET RISK     

          Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in equity, interest, credit spreads, commodity, or currency
exchange rates and prices. Adverse changes to these rates and prices may occur due to changes in the liquidity of a market or market segment, insolvency or financial distress of key market makers or
participants or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness and/or risk tolerance. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity prices, although
we also have a smaller exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.   

The
active management of market risk is integral to our results of operations. We may use the following approaches to manage exposure to market risk within defined tolerance ranges:
1) rebalancing existing asset or liability portfolios, 2) changing the character of investments purchased in the future and 3) using derivative instruments to modify the market
risk characteristics of existing assets and liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. For a more detailed discussion of our use of derivative financial instruments, see Note 6 of the
consolidated financial statements.   

            Overview       In formulating and implementing guidelines for investing funds, we seek to earn returns that enhance our ability to offer
competitive rates
and prices to customers while contributing to attractive and stable profits and long-term capital growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the
underlying risks and product profiles of each business.   

          Investment
policies define the overall framework for managing market and other investment risks, including accountability and controls over risk management activities. Subsidiaries that
conduct investment activities follow policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These investment policies specify the investment limits and strategies that are
appropriate given the liquidity, surplus, product profile and regulatory requirements of the subsidiary. Executive oversight of investment activities is conducted primarily through
subsidiaries' boards of directors and investment committees. For Allstate Financial, its asset-liability management ("ALM") policies further define the overall framework for managing market and
investment risks. ALM focuses on strategies to enhance yields, mitigate market risks and optimize capital to improve profitability and returns for Allstate Financial. Allstate Financial ALM activities
follow asset-liability policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These ALM policies specify limits, ranges and/or targets for investments that best meet Allstate
Financial's business objectives in light of its product liabilities.   

          We
manage our exposure to market risk through the use of asset allocation, duration and value-at-risk limits, simulation, and as appropriate, through the use of
stress tests. We have asset allocation limits that place restrictions on the total funds that may be invested within an asset class. We have duration limits on the Property-Liability and Allstate
Financial investment portfolios and, as appropriate, on individual components of these portfolios. These duration limits place restrictions on the amount of interest rate risk that may be taken. Our
value-at-risk limits are intended to restrict the potential loss in fair value that could arise from adverse movements in the fixed income, equity, and currency markets based
on historical volatilities and correlations among market risk factors. Comprehensive day-to-day management of market risk within defined tolerance ranges occurs as portfolio
managers buy and sell within their respective markets based upon the acceptable boundaries established by investment policies. For Allstate Financial, this day-to-day
management is integrated with and informed by the activities of the ALM organization. This integration is intended to result in a prudent, methodical and effective adjudication of market risk and
return, conditioned by the unique demands and dynamics of Allstate Financial's product liabilities and supported by the continuous application of advanced risk technology and analytics.   

          Although
we apply a similar overall philosophy to market risk, the underlying business frameworks and the accounting and regulatory environments differ considerably between the
Property-Liability and Allstate Financial businesses affecting investment decisions and risk parameters.   

             Interest rate risk    is the risk that we will incur a loss due to adverse changes in interest rates relative to the interest rate
characteristics of interest bearing assets and liabilities. This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as we invest substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets and issue
interest-sensitive liabilities. Interest rate risk includes risks related to changes in U.S. Treasury yields and other key risk-free reference yields.   

          We
manage the interest rate risk in our assets relative to the interest rate risk in our liabilities. One of the measures used to quantify this exposure is duration. Duration measures
the price sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates. For example, if interest rates increase 100 basis points, the fair value of an asset with a duration of 5 is expected
to decrease in value by approximately 5%. At December 31, 2008, the difference between our asset and liability duration was approximately 0.02, compared to a 0.39 gap at   

  122  

December 31,
2007. A positive duration gap indicates that the fair value of our assets is more sensitive to interest rate movements than the fair value of our liabilities.   

          Most
of our duration gap is attributable to the Property-Liability operations, with the primary liabilities being auto and homeowners claims. In the management of investments supporting
the Property-Liability business, we adhere to an objective of emphasizing safety of principal and consistency of income within a total return framework. This approach is designed to ensure our
financial strength and stability for paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth. This objective generally results in a positive duration mismatch between the Property-Liability
assets and liabilities.   

          For
the Allstate Financial business, we seek to invest premiums, contract charges and deposits to generate future cash flows that will fund future claims, benefits and expenses, and that
will earn stable spreads across a wide variety of interest rate and economic scenarios. To achieve this objective and limit interest rate risk for Allstate Financial, we adhere to a philosophy of
managing the duration of assets and related liabilities within predetermined tolerance levels. This philosophy is executed using duration targets for fixed income investments in addition to interest
rate swaps, futures, forwards, caps, floors and swaptions to reduce the interest rate risk resulting from mismatches between existing assets and liabilities, and financial futures and other derivative
instruments to hedge the interest rate risk of anticipated purchases and sales of investments and product sales to customers.   

          We
pledge and receive collateral on certain types of derivative contracts. For futures and option contracts traded on exchanges, we have pledged securities as margin deposits totaling
$72 million as of December 31, 2008. For OTC derivative transactions including interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors, and credit default
swaps, master netting agreements are used. These agreements allow us to net payments due for transactions covered by the agreements and, when applicable, we are required to post collateral. As of
December 31, 2008, we held cash of $20 million and did not have any securities pledged by counterparties as collateral for OTC instruments; we pledged cash of $16 million and
securities of $544 million as collateral to counterparties.   

          We
performed a sensitivity analysis on OTC derivative collateral requirements by assuming a hypothetical reduction in our S P's insurance financial strength ratings from AA-
to A and a 100 basis point decline in interest rates. The analysis indicated that we would have to post an estimated $449 million in additional collateral with approximately 99.9% attributable
to Allstate Financial. The selection of these hypothetical scenarios should not be construed as our prediction of future events, but only as an illustration of the estimated potential effect of such
events. We also actively manage our counterparty credit risk exposure by monitoring the level of collateral posted by our counterparties with respect to our receivable positions.   

          To
calculate the duration gap between assets and liabilities, we project asset and liability cash flows and calculate their net present value using a risk-free market
interest rate adjusted for credit quality, sector attributes, liquidity and other specific risks. Duration is calculated by revaluing these cash flows at alternative interest rates and determining the
percentage change in aggregate fair value. The cash flows used in this calculation include the expected maturity and repricing characteristics of our derivative financial instruments, all other
financial instruments (as described in Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements), and certain other items including unearned premiums, property-liability claims and claims expense
reserves, annuity liabilities and other interest-sensitive liabilities. The projections include assumptions (based upon historical market experience and our experience) that reflect the effect of
changing interest rates on the prepayment, lapse, leverage and/or option features of instruments, where applicable. The preceding assumptions relate primarily to mortgage-backed securities,
collateralized mortgage obligations, municipal housing bonds, callable municipal and corporate obligations, and fixed rate single and flexible premium deferred annuities. Additionally, the
calculations include assumptions regarding the renewal of property-liability policies.   

          Based
upon the information and assumptions used in the duration calculation, and interest rates in effect at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate,
parallel increase in interest rates ("rate shock") would decrease the net fair value of the assets and liabilities by approximately $81 million, compared to $1.51 billion at
December 31, 2007. Reflected in the duration calculation are the effects of a program that uses options on Treasury futures to manage the Property-Liability interest rate risk exposures
relative to duration targets, as well as a program that uses interest rate swaptions to manage the risk of a large rate increase. In calculating the impact of a 100 basis point increase on the value
of the derivatives, we have assumed interest rate volatility remains constant. Based on the option on Treasury futures and swaption contracts in place at December 31, 2008, we would recognize
realized capital gains totaling $135 million in the event of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel interest rate increase and $11 million in realized capital losses in the event of a 100
basis point immediate, parallel interest rate decrease. The selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change   

  123  

in
interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event. There are $6.79 billion of assets
supporting life insurance products such as traditional and interest-sensitive life that are not financial instruments. These assets and the associated liabilities have not been included in the above
estimate. The $6.79 billion of assets excluded from the calculation has decreased from the $7.77 billion reported at December 31, 2007 due to capital market changes. Based on
assumptions described above, in the event of a 100 basis point immediate increase in interest rates, the assets supporting life insurance products would decrease in value by $515 million,
compared to a decrease of $554 million at December 31, 2007.   

To
the extent that conditions differ from the assumptions we used in these calculations, duration and rate shock measures could be significantly impacted. Additionally, our calculations
assume that the current relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates (the term structure of interest rates) will remain constant over time. As a result, these
calculations may not fully capture the effect of non-parallel changes in the term structure of interest rates and/or large changes in interest rates.   

             Credit spread risk    is the risk that we will incur a loss due to adverse changes in credit spreads ("spreads"). This risk arises from many
of our primary activities, as we invest substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed income assets.   

We
manage the spread risk in our assets. One of the measures used to quantify this exposure is spread duration. Spread duration measures the price sensitivity of the assets to changes in
spreads. For example, if spreads increase 100 basis points, the fair value of an asset exhibiting a spread duration of 5 is expected to decrease in value by approximately 5%.   

          Spread
duration is calculated similarly to interest rate duration. At December 31, 2008, the spread duration of Property-Liability assets was 5.46 and the spread duration of
Allstate Financial assets was 4.30. Based upon the information and assumptions we use in this spread duration calculation, and spreads in effect at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 100
basis point immediate, parallel increase in spreads across all asset classes, industry sectors and credit ratings ("spread shock") would decrease the net fair value of the assets by approximately
$3.61 billion, compared to $4.62 billion at December 31, 2007. Reflected in the duration calculation are the effects of our risk mitigation actions that use credit default swaps
to manage spread risk. Based on contracts in place at December 31, 2008, we would recognize realized capital gains totaling $64 million in the event of a 100 basis point immediate,
parallel spread increase and $64 million in realized capital losses in the event of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel spread decrease. The selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel
change in spreads should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event.   

Equity price risk    is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in the general levels of the equity markets. At
December 31, 2008, we held approximately $2.54 billion in common stocks and Exchange Traded Funds ("ETFs"), and $3.65 billion in other securities with equity risk (including
primarily convertible securities, limited partnership interests, non-redeemable preferred securities and equity-linked notes), compared to approximately $4.32 billion and
$3.76 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2007. Approximately 100.0% and 49.1% of these totals, respectively, represented assets of the Property-Liability operations at
December 31, 2008, compared to approximately 100.0% and 50.5%, respectively, at December 31, 2007. Additionally, we had 25,634 contracts in long Standard   Poor's 500 Composite
Price Index ("S P 500") puts at December 31, 2008 with a fair value of $108 million.   

          At
December 31, 2008, our portfolio of common stocks and other securities with equity risk had a cash market portfolio beta of approximately 0.66, compared to a beta of
approximately 0.95 at December 31, 2007. Beta represents a widely used methodology to describe, quantitatively, an investment's market risk characteristics relative to an index such as the
S P 500. Based on the beta analysis, we estimate that if the S P 500 increases or decreases by 10%, the fair value of our equity investments will increase or decrease by approximately
6.6%, respectively. Based upon the information and assumptions we used to calculate beta at December 31, 2008, including the effect of the S P 500 puts, we estimate that an immediate
decrease in the S P 500 of 10% would decrease the net fair value of our equity investments identified above by approximately $343 million, compared to $765 million at
December 31, 2007, and an immediate increase in the S P 500 of 10% would increase the net fair value by $368 million compared to $765 million at December 31, 2007.
In calculating the impact of a 10% S P index perturbation on the value of the puts, we have assumed index volatility remains constant. Based on the S P 500 index put options in place at
December 31, 2008, we would recognize losses totaling $36 million in the event of a 10% increase in the S P 500 index and $61 million in gains in the event of a 10%
decrease. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease in the S P 500 should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such
an event.   

  124  

The
beta of our common stocks and other securities with equity risk was determined using Barra's predictive beta. This beta is based on a company's fundamental data. The illustrations
noted above may not reflect our actual experience if the future composition of the portfolio (hence its beta) and correlation relationships differ from the historical relationships.   

At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had separate accounts assets related to variable annuity and variable life contracts with account values totaling $8.24 billion and
$14.93 billion, respectively. Equity risk exists for contract charges based on separate account balances and guarantees for death and/or income benefits provided by our variable products. In
2006, we disposed of substantially all of the variable annuity business through a reinsurance agreement with Prudential as described in Note 3 of the consolidated financial statements, and
therefore mitigated this aspect of our risk. Equity risk for our variable life business relates to contract charges and policyholder benefits. Total variable life contract charges for 2008 and 2007
were $95 million and $92 million, respectively. Separate account liabilities related to variable life contracts were $561 million and $905 million in December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          At
December 31, 2008 and 2007 we had approximately $4.11 billion and $3.98 billion, respectively, in equity-indexed annuity liabilities that provide customers with
interest crediting rates based on the performance of the S P 500. We hedge the risk associated with these liabilities using equity-indexed options and futures, interest rate swaps, and
eurodollar futures, maintaining risk within specified value-at-risk limits.   

Foreign currency exchange rate risk    is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. This risk primarily arises from our foreign equity investments, including real estate funds, and our Canadian operations. We also have certain funding agreement programs and a small amount of
fixed income securities that are denominated in foreign currencies, however, derivatives are used to hedge the foreign currency risk of these funding agreements and approximately 65% of the fixed
income securities. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had approximately $713 million and $924 million, respectively, in funding agreements denominated in foreign currencies.   

At
December 31, 2008, we had approximately $593 million in foreign currency denominated equity securities, an additional $482 million net investment in our foreign
subsidiaries, and $103 million in unhedged non-dollar pay fixed income securities. These amounts were $791 million, $669 million, and $45 million, respectively,
at December 31, 2007. Approximately 80.7% of the foreign currency exposure is in the Property-Liability business.   

          Based
upon the information and assumptions we used at December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates that we
are exposed to would decrease the value of our foreign currency denominated instruments by approximately $118 million, compared with an estimated $150 million decrease at
December 31, 2007. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the
potential effect of such an event. Our currency exposure is diversified across 38 currencies, compared to 30 currencies at December 31, 2007. Our largest individual foreign currency exposures
at December 31, 2008 were to the Canadian dollar (43.2%) and the Euro (19.2%). The largest individual foreign currency exposures at December 31, 2007 were to the Canadian dollar (45.2%)
and the Euro (21.7%). Our primary regional exposure is to Western Europe, approximately 33.2% at December 31, 2008, compared to 35.5% at December 31, 2007.   

The
modeling technique we use to report our currency exposure does not take into account correlation among foreign currency exchange rates. Even though we believe it is very unlikely
that all of the foreign currency exchange rates that we are exposed to would simultaneously decrease by 10%, we nonetheless stress test our portfolio under this and other hypothetical extreme adverse
market scenarios. Our actual experience may differ from these results because of assumptions we have used or because significant liquidity and market events could occur that we did not foresee.   

             Commodity price risk    is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in the prices of commodities. This risk arises
from commodity linked investments, such as the Goldman Sachs Commodity Index which is a broad based, oil dominated index. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had no exposure to the index.   

    PENSION PLANS     

          We have defined benefit pension plans, which cover most full-time and certain part-time employees and
employee-agents. See Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. The pension and other
postretirement plans may be amended or terminated at any time. Any revisions could result in significant changes to our obligations and our obligation to fund the plans.   

  125  

We
report unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
shareholders' equity. It represents differences between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for
other postretirement plans that have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic cost. The measurement of the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost can vary based upon
the fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. The unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost at
December 31, 2008 was $1.07 billion, an increase of $724 million from $344 million at December 31, 2007. The increase was the result of declines in the value of plan
assets during 2008 partially offset by an increased discount rate. As of December 31, 2008, each of our qualified pension plans had projected benefit obligations that significantly exceeded
plan assets. As of December 31, 2007, each of our U.S. qualified pension plans had projected benefit obligations that slightly exceeded plan assets.   

          As
provided for in the Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," the market-related
value component of expected returns recognizes plan losses and gains on equity securities over a five-year period, which we believe is consistent with the long-term nature of
pension obligations. As a result, the effect of changes in fair value on equity securities on our net periodic pension cost may be experienced in periods subsequent to those in which the fluctuations
actually occur.   

          Net
periodic pension cost in 2009 is estimated to be $122 million based on current assumptions, including settlement charges. This represents a decrease compared to 2008 due to
the increase in discount rate for each pension plan, which resulted in lower amortization of net actuarial loss. Net periodic pension cost decreased in 2008 principally due to lower service cost,
higher expected returns on plan assets, and lower amortization of net actuarial loss due to higher plan asset values. Net periodic pension cost decreased in 2007 principally due to lower settlement
charges and decreases in the amortization of actuarial losses. In each of the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, net pension cost included non-cash settlement charges primarily resulting from lump
sum distributions made to agents and in 2006 due to higher lump sum payments made to Allstate employees. Additional settlement charges occurred during 2008 and 2007 also related to the Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan as a result of lump sum payments made from the plan. Settlement charges are expected to continue in the future as we settle our remaining agent pension obligations by making
lump sum distributions to agents.   

          Amounts
recorded for pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income are significantly affected by fluctuations in the returns on plan assets and the amortization of unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses. Plan assets sustained net losses in current and prior periods primarily due to declines in equity and credit markets. These asset losses, combined with all other
unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, resulted in amortization of net actuarial loss (and additional net periodic pension cost) of $37 million in 2008 and $116 million in 2007. We
anticipate that the unrealized loss for our pension plans will exceed 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligations or the market-related value of assets in 2010 and into the foreseeable
future, resulting in additional amortization and net periodic pension cost.   

Amounts
recorded for net periodic pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income are also significantly affected by changes in the assumptions used to determine the weighted
average discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The weighted average discount rate is based on rates at which expected pension benefits attributable to past
employee service could effectively be settled on a present value basis at the measurement date. We develop the assumed weighted average discount rate by utilizing the weighted average yield of a
theoretical dedicated portfolio derived from bonds available in the Barclay corporate bond universe having ratings of at least "AA" by S P's or at least "Aa" by Moody's on the measurement
date with cash flows that match expected plan benefit requirements. Significant changes in discount rates, such as those caused by changes in the yield curve, the mix of bonds available in the market,
the duration of selected bonds and expected benefit payments, may result in volatility in pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income.   

          Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the weighted average discount rate would result in an increase of $37 million in net periodic
pension cost and a $314 million increase in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost liability of our pension plans recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income as
of our December 31 measurement date, versus an increase of $47 million in net periodic pension cost and a $369 million increase in the unrecognized pension and other
postretirement benefit cost liability as of January 1, 2008, our remeasurement date to transition to a December 31 measurement date under SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans" ("SFAS No. 158"). A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the weighted average   

  126  

discount
rate would decrease net periodic pension cost by $8 million and would decrease the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost liability of our pension plans recorded as
accumulated other comprehensive income by $267 million as of December 31, 2008, versus a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $34 million and a $311 million decrease in
the net funded status liability as of January 1, 2008. This non-symmetrical range results from the non-linear relationship between discount rates and pension
obligations, and changes in the amortization of unrealized net actuarial gains and losses.   

          The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. While this rate reflects long-term assumptions
and is consistent with long-term historical returns, sustained changes in the market or changes in the mix of plan assets may lead to revisions in the assumed long-term rate of
return on plan assets that may result in variability of pension cost. Differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are a
component of unrecognized gains or losses, which may be amortized as a component of net actuarial gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, the effect of
changes in fair value on our pension cost may be experienced in results of operations in periods subsequent to those in which the fluctuations actually occur.   

          Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would result in an increase of
$48 million in pension cost at December 31, 2008, compared to $48 million at January 1, 2008. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $48 million at December 31, 2008, compared to $48 million at
January 1, 2008.   

          We
target funding levels that do not restrict the payment of plan benefits in our domestic plans and were within our targeted range as of December 31, 2008. In light of
significant market declines occurring at the end of 2008, we expect that contributions of approximately $300 million may be needed for the 2009 plan year to maintain the plans' funded status.
This estimate could change significantly following either a dramatic improvement or decline in investment markets.   

DEFERRED TAXES     

          The total deferred tax valuation allowance is $49 million at December 31, 2008. We evaluate whether a valuation allowance
is required each reporting period. A valuation allowance is established if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax
asset will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is needed, all available evidence is considered. This includes the potential for capital and ordinary loss carryback, future
reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences.   

With
respect to our evaluation of the need for a valuation allowance related to the deferred tax asset on unrealized losses on fixed income securities, we rely on our assertion that we
have the intent and ability to hold the securities to recovery. As a result, the unrealized losses on these securities would not be expected to materialize and no valuation allowance on the associated
deferred tax asset is needed.   

          With
respect to our evaluation of the need for a valuation allowance related to other capital losses that have not yet been recognized for tax purposes, we utilize prudent and feasible
tax planning strategies. These include strategies that optimize the ability to carry back capital losses as well as the ability to offset future capital losses with capital gains that could be
recognized for tax purposes. We have remaining capital loss carryback capacity of $1.50 billion from 2007. Included in the $49 million valuation allowance at December 31, 2008 is
$40 million relating to the deferred tax asset on capital losses that have not yet been recognized for tax purposes.   

  127  

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY     

             Capital Resources    consist of shareholders' equity and debt, representing funds deployed
or available to be deployed to support business operations or for general corporate purposes. The following table summarizes our capital resources at December 31.   

Shareholders' equity    decreased in 2008, due to unrealized net capital losses on investments, net
loss, share repurchases, dividends paid to shareholders and an increase in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost. Shareholders' equity increased in 2007, due to net income and
a decline in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost, partially offset by share repurchases, decreases in unrealized net capital gains on investments and dividends paid to
shareholders.   

          The
decrease to shareholders' equity resulting from the increase in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost in 2008 was the result of unfavorable investment
returns partially offset by the effects of higher discount rates. The change to the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost had an impact on shareholders' equity of
$822 million unfavorable for pension, and $98 million favorable for other post employment benefits ("OPEB"). For further information on the impact to unrecognized pension and other
postretirement benefit cost, see Notes 2 and 16 of the consolidated financial statements.   

          The
decline in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost in 2007 was primarily related to favorable investment performance of the assets and an increase in the
discount rate of the pension plans, and lower than assumed claims experience in the other postretirement employee benefit plans. The favorable change to the unrecognized pension and other
postretirement benefit cost had an impact on shareholders' equity of $580 million for pension, and $185 million for OPEB.   

             Share repurchases    We suspended our $2.00 billion share repurchase program in October 2008 and do not plan to complete it by the
target date of March 31, 2009. The number of shares repurchased under the program was 22.7 million shares for $1.07 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

Since
1995, we have acquired 457 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $19.08 billion, primarily as part of various stock repurchase programs. We have reissued
95 million shares since 1995, primarily associated with our equity incentive plans, the 1999 acquisition of American Heritage Life Investment Corporation and the 2001 redemption of certain
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities.   

          The
impact of our repurchase programs on total shares outstanding since 1995 has been a net reduction of 360 million shares or 40.2%.   

Debt    increased $19 million in 2008 compared to 2007 and $978 million in 2007 compared to 2006 due to increases in
long-term debt.   

          The
$750 million of 7.20% Senior Notes due 2009 are scheduled to mature on December 1, 2009. These Senior Notes are expected to be refinanced. For further information on
debt issuances, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.   

          At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no outstanding commercial paper borrowings.   

  128  

Financial Ratings and Strength       The following table summarizes our debt, commercial paper and insurance financial strength ratings.

Moody's    
     
   Standard 
  Poor's    
     
   A.M. Best    

The Allstate Corporation (senior long-term debt)  

A3  

A-  

a-  

The Allstate Corporation (commercial paper)  

P-2  

A-2  

AMB-1  

AIC (insurance financial strength)  

Aa3  

AA-  

A+  

Allstate Life Insurance Company (insurance financial strength)  

A1  

AA-  

A+  

Our ratings are influenced by many factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability
management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), exposure to risks such as catastrophes and the current level of operating leverage.   

          On
February 2, 2009, A.M. Best affirmed The Allstate Corporation's debt rating of a- as well as the A+ financial strength ratings of AIC and ALIC.
A.M. Best also affirmed the commercial paper rating of AMB-1. The outlook for all ratings remained stable. In October 2008, A.M. Best had downgraded The Allstate
Corporation's debt rating to a- from a. On January 29, 2009, S P downgraded the rating for The Allstate Corporation to A- from A+, the financial strength ratings for AIC
and ALIC to AA- from AA, and the commercial paper rating of The Allstate Corporation to A-2 from A-1. The outlook for all ratings remained negative. In October
2008, the outlook had been revised to negative from stable. On January 29, 2009, Moody's downgraded the rating for The Allstate Corporation to A3 from A2, the financial strength rating of AIC
to Aa3 from Aa2, the financial strength rating of ALIC to A1 from Aa3, and the commercial paper rating of The Allstate Corporation to P-2 from P-1. The outlook for all ratings
was revised to stable from negative. In October 2008, Moody's downgraded The Allstate Corporation to A2 from A1 and the financial strength ratings of ALIC to Aa3 from Aa2.   

We
have distinct and separately capitalized groups of subsidiaries licensed to sell property and casualty insurance in New Jersey and Florida that maintain separate group ratings. The
ratings of these groups are influenced by the risks that relate specifically to each group. Many mortgage companies require property owners to have insurance from an insurance carrier with a secure
financial strength rating from an accredited rating agency. Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company and Encompass Insurance Company of New Jersey, which write auto and homeowners insurance, are rated
A- by A.M. Best. Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company also has a Demotech rating of A". On October 29, 2008, A.M. Best placed The Allstate Corporation's subsidiary in
Florida, Allstate Floridian, under review with negative implications based upon the uncertainty regarding the FHCF's ability to fund its reimbursement obligations. However, as no catastrophes occurred
through the end of the season, A.M. Best removed Allstate Floridian from review and placed it on negative outlook while affirming its rating of B+.   

          Effective
May 8, 2008, ALIC, AIC and the Corporation entered into a one-year Amended and Restated Intercompany Liquidity Agreement ("Liquidity Agreement") replacing
the Intercompany Liquidity Agreement between ALIC and AIC, dated January 1, 2008. The agreement allows for short-term advances of funds to be made between parties for liquidity and
other general corporate purposes. It shall be automatically renewed for subsequent one-year terms unless terminated by the parties. The Liquidity Agreement does not establish a commitment
to advance funds on the part of either party. ALIC and AIC each serve as a lender and borrower and the Corporation serves only as a lender. AIC also has a capital support agreement with ALIC effective
December 14, 2007. Under the capital support agreement, AIC is committed to provide capital to ALIC to allow for profitable growth while maintaining an adequate capital level. The maximum
amount of potential funding under the intercompany and capital support agreements is $1.00 billion.   

          Allstate's
domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices prescribed or permitted
by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Statutory surplus is a measure that is often used as a basis for determining dividend paying capacity, operating leverage and premium
growth capacity, and it is also reviewed by rating agencies in determining their ratings. As of December 31, 2008, AIC's statutory surplus is approximately $13.0 billion compared to
$18.0 billion at December 31, 2007. These amounts include ALIC's statutory surplus of $3.2 billion at December 31,
2008, compared to $2.6 billion at December 31, 2007. The decrease is the result of dividends paid to The Allstate Corporation, net loss and unrealized losses on equity securities and
investments in ALIC.   

          We
have received approval from the Illinois Division of Insurance for the use of two permitted practices in the statutory-basis financial statements related to areas in which statutory
accounting is not reflective of the underlying economics during this period of extreme market conditions caused by the current economic crisis. The first permitted practice relates to the statutory
accounting for deferred taxes and applies to AIC and ALIC.   

  129  

Specifically,
this permitted practice increased the amount of deferred income tax asset that can be recognized in the statutory-basis financial statements and included in statutory surplus from the
lesser of the amounts that can be realized in one year or 10% of adjusted statutory surplus to the lesser of deferred taxes that can be realized within 3 years or 15% of adjusted statutory
surplus. The permitted practice resulted in an increase in AIC's statutory surplus of $365 million as of December 31, 2008 which included an increase in ALIC's statutory surplus of
$140 million. Admitted statutory-basis deferred tax assets on both companies totaled $1.76 billion after the permitted practice reflecting approximately 60% of total potential
statutory-basis deferred tax assets before non-admission limitations. The second permitted practice relates to statutory accounting for market value adjusted annuities ("MVAA") whose
related assets are held in a separate account in the statutory-basis financial statements. Specifically, this permitted practice resulted in the MVAA related investments being recorded at amortized
cost, which is consistent with statutory accounting for other fixed income investments and the book value method of accounting required under Illinois Code for MVAA investments held in a general
account. The permitted practice was requested because the Illinois Code is silent on MVAA that are issued by a separate account. In the extreme market conditions of the economic crisis, the market
value method of accounting reduced statutory surplus due to unrealized losses on investments caused by wide credit spreads and the liquidity based dislocations in the investment markets in a manner
not representative of the economics of the related liabilities. The effect of the permitted practice, which is to value the invested assets and insurance reserves on a book value basis instead of the
formerly used market value basis, was $394 million based on October 1, 2008 valuations and grew to $1.24 billion at December 31, 2008 due to an increase of
$720 million in the investment unrealized loss position, while the market-based reserves increased $130 million relative to book-basis reserves. The permitted practice
eliminated the inconsistent impacts in the amounts determined by the valuation methodologies for invested assets and insurance reserves and resulted in invested assets being valued at
$8.07 billion and reserves at $9.17 billion.   

          The
ratio of net premiums written to statutory surplus is a common measure of operating leverage used in the property-casualty insurance industry and serves as an indicator of a
company's premium growth capacity. Ratios in excess of 3 to 1 are typically considered outside the usual range by insurance regulators and rating agencies. AIC's premium to surplus ratio was 2.0x on
December 31, 2008 compared to 1.5x in the prior year.   

          State
laws specify regulatory actions if an insurer's risk-based capital ("RBC"), a measure of an insurer's solvency, falls below certain levels. The NAIC has a standard
formula for annually assessing RBC. The formula for calculating RBC for property-liability companies takes into account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting factors for
reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. At December 31,
2008, the RBC for each of our domestic insurance companies was within the range that we target.   

The
NAIC has also developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial
condition of insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or actions by insurance regulatory authorities. The NAIC analyzes financial data provided by insurance
companies using prescribed ratios, each with defined "usual ranges". Generally, regulators will begin to monitor an insurance company if its ratios fall outside the usual ranges for four or more of
the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. The ratios of our domestic insurance companies are within these ranges.   

  130  

Liquidity Sources and Uses       Our potential sources of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and 
Other    

Receipt of insurance premiums  

X  

X  

Allstate Financial contractholder fund deposits  

X  

Reinsurance recoveries  

X  

X  

Receipts of principal, interest and dividends on investments  

X  

X  

X  

Sales of investments  

X  

X  

X  

Funds from investment repurchase agreements, securities lending, dollar roll, commercial paper and line of credit agreements  

X  

X  

X  

Inter-company loans  

X  

X  

X  

Capital contributions from parent  

X  

X  

Dividends from subsidiaries  

X  

X  

Tax refunds/settlements  

X  

X  

Funds from periodic issuance of additional securities  

X  

Funds from the settlement of our benefit plans  

X  

Our potential uses of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and 
Other    

Payment of claims and related expenses  

X  

Payment of contract benefits, maturities, surrenders and withdrawals  

X  

Reinsurance cessions and payments  

X  

X  

Operating costs and expenses  

X  

X  

X  

Purchase of investments  

X  

X  

X  

Repayment of investment repurchase agreements, securities lending, dollar roll, commercial paper and line of credit agreements  

X  

X  

X  

Payment or repayment of inter-company loans  

X  

X  

X  

Capital contributions to subsidiaries  

X  

X  

Dividends to shareholders/parent company  

X  

X  

X  

Tax payments/settlements  

X  

Share repurchases  

X  

Debt service expenses and repayment  

X  

X  

X  

Settlement payments of employee and agent benefit plans  

X  

X  

X  

We actively manage our financial position and liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic, and business conditions. In 2008, in
anticipation of continued volatility and illiquidity in the financial markets, we took actions to enhance our economic and liquidity position pending a return to normal capital market conditions.
These actions included:   

Managing our gross exposure to our largest tail risk exposures: interest rate, equity, and catastrophes through active
management of our investment and product portfolios as well as further mitigation through hedging and reinsurance.     
           Accumulating higher cash and short-term investment positions easily convertible to cash from asset sales,
principal and interest receipts, calls, maturities and other cash inflows from our investment portfolio.     
           Reducing our securities lending program to $364 million as of December 31, 2008 from $3.39 billion as
of December 31, 2007. By reducing the securities lending program, we gained additional direct access to our liquid investments.     
           Proactively selling securities we think will become less liquid.     
           Suspension of share repurchase program.     
           On February 25, 2009, we announced that our shareholder dividend was being revised to $.20.    
 
  131  

We
believe that these actions will provide us with a greater level of flexibility necessary to operate in the current market environment. If market conditions warrant, we may take
additional actions to enhance our liquidity position including:   

Continued retention of portfolio cash flows including approximately $4.85 billion of expected inflows from upcoming
maturities, calls and interest receipts on investments over the next six months.     
           The sale of fixed income (government, municipal and investment grade corporate bonds) and equity securities with
unrealized capital gains at December 31, 2008.    

With
a focus on preserving capital, we consider investments which are convertible to cash without generating significant additional net realized capital losses as liquidity sources. The
following table presents cash and short-term positions easily convertible to cash, and certain other liquid investments meeting this criteria.   

(1)    Other
highly liquid investments are defined as assets that are generally saleable within one week, and primarily include common equity securities of
$1.56 billion, municipal bonds of $1.08 billion, U.S. government and agencies bonds of $652 million, short-term investments of $624 million and agency pass
through securities of $552 million. The amounts shown in the table above represent the amount of our holdings in these assets, excluding any holdings with restrictions.
      (2)    Other
liquid investments are defined as assets that are saleable within one quarter, and primarily include municipal bonds of $5.20 billion,
short-term investments of $1.87 billion, corporate bonds of $956 million and agency pass through securities of $774 million. The amounts shown in the table above
represent the amount that we believe could be sold during the first quarter of 2009, excluding any holdings with restrictions.    

          The above analysis identifies our access to internal sources of liquidity. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to address current planned
needs from investments other than those for which we have asserted the intent to hold until recovery combined with targeted sales of certain Allstate Financial products. Additionally, we have existing
intercompany agreements in place that facilitate liquidity management at an enterprise level and enhance flexibility across the Company.   

          To
increase new money for investing, we have initiated actions to accelerate the recovery of approximately $1.29 billion of tax refunds from the overpayment of 2008 estimated
taxes as well as the carryback of 2008 Allstate Financial ordinary losses and Property-Liability capital losses to prior tax years. $320 million in refunds were received in February 2009 and we
expect the remaining refunds to be received in the first half of 2009. The carryback of the non-life companies' 2008 capital losses will fully offset the capital gains from 2005
and 2006, resulting in a remaining capital loss carryback capacity of $1.50 billion from 2007. The life companies do not have the ability to carry back any capital losses to prior tax years.   

            Parent Company Capital Capacity       At the parent holding company level, we have deployable cash and investments totaling
$3.64 billion as of
December 31, 2008. These assets include highly liquid securities that are generally saleable within one week totaling $2.29 billion, additional liquid investments that are saleable
within one quarter totaling $972 million, and $381 million of investments that trade in illiquid markets. The substantial earnings capacity of the operating subsidiaries is the primary
source of capital generation for the Corporation. In 2009, AIC will have the capacity to pay dividends currently estimated at $1.30 billion without prior regulatory approval. We do not
anticipate that ALIC will pay dividends to AIC in 2009. In addition, we have access to $1.00 billion of funds from either commercial paper issuance or an unsecured revolving credit facility.
This provides capital for the parent company's relatively low fixed charges, estimated at $650 million in 2009, and $750 million of debt maturing in December 2009, to the extent not
refinanced prior to maturity.   

          In
October 2008, the Corporation completed its previously approved capital contribution of $1.00 billion of invested assets to AIC. In November 2008, AIC purchased a
$400 million surplus note from ALIC and made a capital contribution of $600 million to ALIC. An additional amount of approximately $250 million remains under the   

  132  

authority
granted by the Corporation and AIC boards on October 15, 2008 and October 20, 2008, respectively, to make capital contributions in the form of cash or securities, by providing
a guaranty or guaranties, or by purchasing one or more surplus notes or other securities on or before April 30, 2009.   

Moreover,
in addition to these historic external sources of capital, access to funding from additional sources, including participation in programs offered by the U.S. Treasury and other
governmental organizations, are potentially available to the Corporation and its operating subsidiaries for capital and liquidity needs.   

          The
Corporation has access to additional borrowing to support liquidity as follows:   

A commercial paper facility with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion to cover short-term cash needs. As
of December 31, 2008, there were no balances outstanding and therefore the remaining borrowing capacity was $1.00 billion; however, the outstanding balance can fluctuate daily.    
           Our primary credit facility is available for short-term liquidity requirements and backs our commercial paper
facility. Our $1.00 billion unsecured revolving credit facility has an initial term of five years expiring in 2012 with two optional one-year extensions that can be exercised at the
end of any of the remaining four years of the facility upon approval of existing or replacement lenders providing more than two-thirds of the commitments to lend. The program is fully
subscribed among 11 lenders with the largest commitments being $185 million. The commitments of the lenders are several and no lender is responsible for any other lender's commitment if such
lender fails to make a loan under the facility. None of the borrowing capacity under this credit facility has been utilized. This facility contains an increase provision that would allow up to an
additional $500 million of borrowing provided the increased portion could be fully syndicated at a later date among existing or new lenders. This facility has a financial covenant requiring
that we not exceed a 37.5% debt to capital resources ratio as defined in the agreement. This ratio at December 31, 2008 was 20.5%. Although the right to borrow under the facility is not subject
to a minimum rating requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of our senior, unsecured, nonguaranteed long-term debt. There were no
borrowings under this line of credit during 2008. The total amount outstanding at any point in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot exceed the
amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility.     
           A universal shelf registration statement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in May 2006 and will expire
May 2009. In April 2009, we expect to ask our board of directors for authority to file a replacement universal shelf registration. We can use our current shelf registration to issue an
unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock (including 364 million shares of treasury stock as of December 31, 2008), preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase
contracts, stock purchase units and securities of subsidiaries. The specific terms of any securities we issue under this registration statement will be provided in the applicable prospectus
supplements.    

Liquidity Exposure       Contractholder funds as of December 31, 2008 were $58.41 billion. The following table summarizes
contractholder
funds by their contractual withdrawal provisions at December 31, 2008.   

(1)    Includes
approximately $11.24 billion of liabilities with a contractual surrender charge of less than 5% of the account balance.
      (2)    Approximately
$7.96 billion of the contracts with market value adjusted surrenders have a 30-45 day period during which there is
no surrender charge or market value adjustment.
      (3)    Includes
extendible funding agreements backing medium-term notes outstanding with a par value of $1.45 billion that have been
non-extended and become due by October 31, 2009. We have accumulated, and expect to maintain, short-term and other maturing investments to fund the retirement of these
obligations.
      (4)    Includes
approximately $1.47 billion of contractholder funds on variable annuities reinsured to Prudential effective June 1, 2006.    
  133  

While we are able to quantify scheduled maturities for our institutional products of $3.25 billion in 2009, anticipating retail product
surrenders is less precise. Retail life and annuity products may be surrendered by customers for a variety of reasons. Reasons unique to individual customers include a current or unexpected need for
cash or a change in life insurance coverage needs. Other key factors that may impact the likelihood of customer surrender include the level of the contract surrender charge, the length of time the
contract has been in force, distribution channel, market interest rates, equity market conditions and potential tax implications. In addition, the propensity for retail life insurance policies to
lapse is lower than it is for fixed annuities because of the need for the insured to be re-underwritten upon policy replacement. Surrenders and partial withdrawals for our retail annuities
decreased 13.9% in 2008 compared to 2007. The annualized surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred annuities, interest-sensitive life insurance and Allstate Bank products, based on the
beginning of year contractholder funds, was 12.2% and 13.3% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Allstate Financial strives to promptly pay customers who request cash surrenders, however, statutory
regulations generally provide up to six months in most states to fulfill surrender requests.   

          Our
institutional products are primarily funding agreements backing medium-term notes. As of December 31, 2008, total institutional products outstanding were
$8.94 billion. The following table presents the scheduled maturities for our institutional products outstanding as of December 31, 2008.   

Our asset-liability management practices limit the differences between the cash flows generated by our investment portfolio and the expected cash
flow requirements of our life insurance, annuity and institutional product obligations.   

          Certain
remote events and circumstances could constrain our liquidity. Those events and circumstances include, for example, a catastrophe resulting in extraordinary losses, a downgrade
in our long-term debt rating of A3, A- and a- (from Moody's, S P's and A.M. Best, respectively) to non-investment grade status of below
Baa3/BBB-/bb, a downgrade in AIC's financial strength rating from Aa3, AA- and A+ (from Moody's, S P's and A.M. Best, respectively) to below Baa2/BBB/A-, or
a downgrade in ALIC's financial strength ratings from A1, AA- and A+ (from Moody's, S P's and A.M. Best, respectively) to below A1/AA-/A-. The rating
agencies also consider the interdependence of our individually rated entities, therefore, a rating change in one entity could potentially affect the ratings of other related entities.   

The
following table summarizes consolidated cash flow activities by business segment.   

(1)    Business
unit cash flows reflect the elimination of intersegment dividends, contributions and borrowings.    

            Property-Liability       Lower cash provided by operating activities for Property-Liability in 2008, compared to 2007, was primarily due to
higher claim
payments resulting from 2008 catastrophe losses and lower investment income. Cash provided by operating activities for Property-Liability in 2007 was comparable to 2006.   

Cash
flows provided by investing activities increased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to decreased purchases of fixed income securities, partially offset by increases in equity
securities purchases, lower sales of fixed income securities, and net change in short-term investments. Cash flows provided by investing activities increased in 2007, compared to 2006,
primarily due to increased sales of equity securities.   

  134  

Cash
used in financing activities in 2008, compared to cash provided by in 2007, was primarily due to decreased tax benefits of share based arrangements in 2008. Cash flows were provided
by financing activities in 2007 compared to being used in the financing activities in 2006, primarily due to the repayment of short-term debt in 2006.   

          Cash
flows were impacted by dividends paid by AIC to its parent, the Corporation, totaling $3.40 billion, $4.92 billion and $1.01 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Cash flows were also impacted by capital contributions paid by the Corporation to AIC totaling $1.00 billion and capital contributions paid by AIC to ALIC totaling
$1.41 billion in 2008. There were no capital contributions to ALIC in 2007 and 2006.   

            Allstate Financial       Lower operating cash flows for Allstate Financial in 2008, compared to 2007, were primarily related to a decrease in
investment
income and lower premiums, partially offset by income tax refunds in 2008 compared to 2007. Higher operating cash flows for Allstate Financial in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily related
to lower operating expenses and tax payments, an increase in investment income, partially offset by increased policy and contract benefit payments and the absence in 2007 of contract charges on the
reinsured variable annuity business.   

          Cash
flows provided by investing activities increased in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to decreased purchases of fixed income securities and mortgage loans, partially offset by
lower investment collections and net change in short-term investments. Cash flows from investing activities increased in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to increased cash provided by
operating activities, partially offset by increased cash used in financing activities.   

          Higher
cash flows used in financing activities in 2008 compared to 2007 were primarily due to higher maturities and retirements of institutional products, partially offset by higher
contractholder fund deposits. Cash flows used in financing activities increased in 2007, compared to 2006, primarily due to lower contractholder fund deposits. For quantification of the changes in
contractholder funds, see the Allstate Financial Segment section of the MD A.   

          There
were no dividends paid by Allstate Financial in 2008. In 2007 and 2006, financing cash flows were impacted by dividends paid by Allstate Financial totaling $742 million and
$725 million, respectively. Allstate Financial cash flows from financing activities were also impacted by funds paid by AIC to ALIC totaling $1.41 billion in 2008. The
$1.41 billion includes capital contributions paid in cash totaling $607 million and the issuance of two surplus notes, each with a principal sum of $400 million, to AIC in
exchange for cash totaling $800 million. Allstate Financial cash flows from financing activities exclude capital contributions to ALIC comprising the transfer to ALIC from AIC of
non-cash assets totaling $342 million and the transfer of a $50 million surplus note to Kennett Capital Inc. from ALIC in exchange for a note receivable with a
principal sum equal to that of the surplus note, which was originally issued to ALIC by a subsidiary of ALIC. One of the surplus notes issued to AIC in 2008 was subsequently canceled and forgiven by
AIC resulting in the recognition of a capital contribution equal to the outstanding principal balance of the surplus note of $400 million. There were no capital contributions to ALIC in 2007
and 2006.   

           Corporate and Other       Fluctuations in the Corporate and Other operating cash flows were primarily due to the timing of intercompany
settlements.
Investing activities primarily relate to investments in the portfolios of Kennett Capital Holdings, LLC. Financing cash flows of the Corporate and Other segment reflect actions such as
fluctuations in short-term debt, repayment of debt, proceeds from the issuance of debt, dividends to shareholders of The Allstate Corporation and share repurchases; therefore, financing
cash flows are affected when we increase or decrease the level of these activities.   

  135  

Contractual Obligations and Commitments       Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008 and the payments due by period are
shown in the
following table.   

(1)    Liabilities
for collateral and repurchase agreements are typically fully secured with cash. We manage our short-term liquidity position to
ensure the availability of a sufficient amount of liquid assets to extinguish short-term liabilities as they come due in the normal course of business, including utilizing potential
sources of liquidity as disclosed previously.
      (2)    Contractholder
funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products such as interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities, including
immediate annuities without life contingencies, bank deposits and institutional products. The reserve for life-contingent contract benefits relates primarily to traditional life and
immediate annuities with life contingencies. These amounts reflect the present value of estimated cash payments to be made to contractholders and policyholders. Certain of these contracts, such as
immediate annuities without life contingencies and institutional products, involve payment obligations where the amount and timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts
relate to (i) policies or contracts where we are currently making payments and will continue to do so and (ii) contracts where the timing of a portion or all of the payments has been
determined by the contract. Extendible funding agreements backing medium-term notes outstanding are reflected in the table above at the maturity date accelerated in accordance with the
contractholders' election to not extend the maturity date. Other contracts, such as interest-sensitive life, fixed deferred annuities, traditional life and immediate annuities with life contingencies
and voluntary accident and health insurance, involve payment obligations where a portion or all of the amount and timing of future payments is uncertain. For these contracts and bank deposits, the
Company is not currently making payments and will not make payments until (i) the occurrence of an insurable event such as death or illness or (ii) the occurrence of a payment triggering
event such as the surrender of or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, which is outside of the control of the Company. We have estimated the timing of payments related to these
contracts based on historical experience and our expectation of future payment patterns. Uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, customer lapse and
withdrawal activity, estimated additional deposits for interest-sensitive life contracts, and renewal premium for life policies, which may significantly impact both the timing and amount of future
payments. Such cash outflows reflect adjustments for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement, and other appropriate factors, but are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum
of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liabilities of $58.41 billion for contractholder funds and $12.88 billion for reserve for
life-contingent contract benefits as included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2008. The liability amount in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position reflects the discounting for interest as well as adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above.
      (3)    Our
payment obligations relating to long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating leases, unconditional purchase obligations and pension
and OPEB contributions are managed within the structure of our intermediate to long-term liquidity management program. Amount differs from the balance presented on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2008 because the long-term debt amount above includes interest.
      (4)    The
pension plans' obligations in the next 12 months represent our planned contributions, and the remaining years' contributions are projected based
on the average remaining service period using the current underfunded status of the plans. The OPEB plans' obligations are estimated based on the expected benefits to be paid. These liabilities are
discounted with respect to interest, and as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount of $1.93 billion included in other
liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.
      (5)    Reserve
for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including claims
that have been incurred but not reported as of the balance sheet date. We have estimated the timing of these payments based on our historical experience and our expectation of future payment patterns.
However, the timing of these payments may vary significantly from the amounts shown above, especially for IBNR claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts which are
our best estimates. The reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense includes loss reserves related to asbestos and environmental claims as of December 31, 2008, of
$1.93 billion and $250 million, respectively.
      (6)    Other
liabilities primarily include accrued expenses and certain benefit obligations and claim payments and other checks outstanding. Certain of these
long-term liabilities are discounted with respect to interest, as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount of
$4.09 billion.    
  136  

(7)    Balance
sheet liabilities not included in the table above include unearned and advance premiums of $10.79 billion and deferred tax liabilities netted
in the net deferred tax asset of $3.79 billion. These items were excluded as they do not meet the definition of a contractual liability as we are not contractually obligated to pay these
amounts to third parties. Rather, they represent an accounting mechanism that allows us to present our financial statements on an accrual basis. In addition, other liabilities of $708 million
were not included in the table above because they did not represent a contractual obligation or the amount and timing of their eventual payment was sufficiently uncertain.
      (8)    Net
unrecognized tax benefits relate to Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes"
("FIN 48"). We believe it is reasonably possible that the FIN 48 liability balance will not significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months. The resolution of this
obligation may be for an amount different than what we have accrued.    

          Our contractual commitments as of December 31, 2008 and the payments due by period are shown in the following table.   

Contractual commitments represent investment commitments such as private placements, limited partnership interests and mortgage loans.   

          We
have agreements in place for services we conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. All material inter-company
transactions have appropriately been eliminated in consolidation. Inter-company transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate departments of insurance
as required.   

          For
a more detailed discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    ENTERPRISE RISK AND RETURN MANAGEMENT     

          Allstate has established enterprise risk and return management ("ERRM") processes and infrastructure to effectively manage risk within
our tolerances while optimizing risk adjusted returns. We have a senior management committee called the Enterprise Risk   Return Council ("ERRC") which is responsible for overseeing enterprise
risks. Enterprise risk and return management is a disciplined, holistic, integrated and interactive approach to risk that is conducted under an overall framework which:    

Increases transparency thereby providing additional insight when setting enterprise strategy     
           Identifies potential events that could have a significant impact on Allstate     
           Proactively manages risk and optimizes our overall profile consistent with Allstate's risk appetite    
           Provides greater assurance of achieving Allstate's objectives     
           Allows Allstate to pursue a return commensurate with the risks taken    

Allstate's
Board of Directors and Audit Committee provide enterprise risk management oversight by reviewing enterprise principles, guidelines and limits for Allstate's significant risks
and by monitoring major risk exposures, trends and actions management has taken to control these risks.   

          Allstate's
primary risk exposures result from the capital markets, followed by catastrophes and operational risk events. Allstate has been proactive in the face of financial market and
economic turbulence by responding quickly to reduce exposures in "at risk" asset classes, implementing risk mitigation and return optimization programs designed to protect our investment portfolio
values, and enhancing our liquidity position through a series of actions.   

          Risk
management is primarily executed within the business units where risk is undertaken. Our risk management programs include appropriate governance policies with established tolerances
and risk limits, stochastic modeling software and analyses, risk identification, evaluation, prioritization, treatment and monitoring practices and effective communication and reporting. Chief Risk
Officers and managers in the various business units are responsible for managing, measuring, evaluating, and reporting risks as appropriate in their respective areas within the risk appetite of the
overall enterprise. This includes items such as monitoring appropriate tolerances and managing exposure to catastrophes; managing the impacts to invested assets and liabilities   

  137  

related
to changes in risk free interest rates, credit spreads and equity markets through value at risk, duration and convexity metrics; managing liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic
and business conditions; and evaluating risks related to credit exposures through credit value at risk measurements.   

As
appropriate, consistent enterprise-wide measurement standards and limits are applied to key risks and are integrated into such processes as strategic and financial
planning, capital management and enterprise risk reporting. Business unit measures and practices are aligned with overall enterprise standards.   

          Economic
Capital is the amount of capital required to provide a given level of safety to stakeholders over a specific time horizon, given a defined enterprise-wide tolerance
for risk. Companies employ various methods and standards for determining economic capital. At Allstate, we utilize an internally developed enterprise stochastic model as significant input into our
determination of an appropriate level of enterprise economic capital to hold, ensuring that we achieve regulatory RBC within the range that we target and appropriately consider rating agency
perspectives. Our economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature and interaction of the risks inherent in our various businesses. Economic capital modeling capabilities enable us
to more fully understand risk distributions and optimize risk/reward tradeoffs across the portfolio of businesses and various risks. These capabilities allow us to view risk and return decisions
holistically which may provide opportunities for enhanced returns to shareholders at similar or lower levels of risk than might be achieved if modeling and analyses were only applied at the business
unit and individual risk level. Areas we are pursuing that may provide such opportunities include risk mitigation and return optimization programs in our investment portfolio and more emphasis on
total return economics and absolute returns in addition to traditional net credit spreads. We have also established an internal capital support agreement between certain legal entities to more fully
capitalize on diversification benefits within the enterprise.   

    REGULATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

          We are subject to extensive regulation and we are involved in various legal and regulatory actions, all of which have an effect on
specific aspects of our business. For a detailed discussion of the legal and regulatory actions in which we are involved, see Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

PENDING ACCOUNTING STANDARDS     

          There are several pending accounting standards that we have not implemented either because the standard has not been finalized or the
implementation date has not yet occurred. For a discussion of these pending standards, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

          The
effect of implementing certain accounting standards on our financial results and financial condition is often based in part on market conditions at the time of implementation of the
standard and other factors we are unable to determine prior to implementation. For this reason, we are sometimes unable to estimate the effect of certain pending accounting standards until the
relevant authoritative body finalizes these standards or until we implement them.   

  138  

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     

          Information required for Item 7A is incorporated by reference to the material under the caption "Market Risk" in Part II,
Item 7 of this report.    

    Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

Page    

Consolidated Statements of Operations  

140  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  

141  

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position  

142  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity  

143  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  

144  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes)  

145  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

220  

139  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

See
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  140  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     

See
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  141  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION     

See
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  142  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY     

See
notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  143  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  144  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   1.     General     

    Basis of presentation     

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The Allstate Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries,
primarily Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC"), a property-liability insurance company with various property-liability and life and investment subsidiaries, including Allstate Life Insurance Company
("ALIC") (collectively referred to as the "Company" or "Allstate"). These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America ("GAAP"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

          To
conform to the current year presentation, certain amounts in the prior years' consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified.   

          The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

    Nature of operations     

          Allstate is engaged, principally in the United States, in the property-liability insurance, life insurance, retirement and investment
product business. Allstate's primary business is the sale of private passenger auto and homeowners insurance. The Company also sells several other personal property and casualty insurance products,
life insurance, annuities, funding agreements, and select commercial property and casualty coverages. Allstate primarily distributes its products through exclusive agencies, financial specialists and
independent agencies.   

          The
Allstate Protection segment principally sells private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, with earned premiums accounting for approximately 92% of Allstate's 2008 consolidated
revenues. Allstate was the country's second largest insurer for both private passenger auto and homeowners insurance as of December 31, 2007. Allstate Protection, through several companies, is
authorized to sell certain property-liability products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The Company is also authorized to sell certain insurance products in Canada. For
2008, the top geographic locations for premiums earned by the Allstate Protection segment were California, New York, Texas, Florida and Pennsylvania. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5%
of premiums earned for Allstate Protection.   

          Allstate
has exposure to catastrophes, an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance business, which have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to material
year-to-year fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial position (see Note 7). The nature and level of catastrophic loss caused by natural events
(high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes) experienced in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to results of
operations and financial position. The Company considers the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to generally be major metropolitan centers in counties along the eastern
and gulf coasts of the United States. The Company considers the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to earthquakes and fires following earthquakes to be major metropolitan areas near
fault lines in the states of California, Oregon, Washington, South Carolina, Missouri, Kentucky and Tennessee. The Company also has exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines
claims (see Note 13).   

          The
Allstate Financial segment sells life insurance, retirement and investment products and voluntary accident and health insurance to individual and institutional customers. The
principal individual products are fixed annuities; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. The principal institutional product is
funding agreements backing medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual investors. Banking products and services are also offered to customers through the Allstate Bank.   

          Allstate
Financial, through several companies, is authorized to sell life insurance and retirement products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands and Guam. For 2008, the top geographic locations for statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment were Delaware, California, Florida and New York. No other
jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for Allstate Financial. Allstate Financial distributes its products to individuals through multiple
distribution channels, including Allstate exclusive agencies, which include exclusive financial specialists, independent agents (including master brokerage agencies and workplace enrolling agents),
financial service firms, such as banks and broker-dealers and specialized structured settlement brokers. Allstate Bank products can also be obtained directly through a toll-free number.   

  145  

Allstate
has exposure to market risk as a result of its investment portfolio. Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur realized and unrealized net capital losses due to
adverse changes in equity, interest, credit spreads, commodity, or currency exchange rates and prices. The Company's primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates and equity prices.
Interest rate risk is the risk that the Company will incur a loss due to adverse changes in interest rates relative to the interest rate characteristics of its interest bearing assets and liabilities.
This risk arises from many of the Company's primary activities, as it invests substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets and issues interest-sensitive liabilities. Interest rate risk includes
risks related to changes in U.S. Treasury yields and other key risk-free reference yields, as well as changes in interest rates resulting from widening credit spreads and credit exposure.
Equity price risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in the general levels of the equity markets or equity-like investments.   

The
Company monitors economic and regulatory developments that have the potential to impact its business. The ability of banks to affiliate with insurers may have a material adverse
effect on all of the Company's product lines by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors. The Company currently benefits from agreements with financial
services entities that market and distribute its products; change in control of these non-affiliated entities could negatively impact the Company's sales. Furthermore, federal and state
laws and regulations affect the taxation of insurance companies and life insurance and annuity products. Congress and various state legislatures have considered proposals that, if enacted, could
impose a greater tax burden on the Company or could have an adverse impact on the tax treatment of some insurance products offered by Allstate Financial, including favorable policyholder tax treatment
currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Legislation that reduced the federal income tax rates applicable to certain dividends and capital gains realized by individuals, or other
proposals, if adopted, that reduce the taxation or permit the establishment of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance or annuities, could have an adverse effect on the
Company's financial position or Allstate Financial's ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate
tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.   

   2.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

    Investments     

          Fixed income securities include bonds, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and
redeemable preferred stocks. Fixed income securities may be sold prior to their contractual maturity, are designated as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The difference between
amortized cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, certain life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC"), certain deferred sales inducement costs ("DSI"), and certain reserves
for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Cash received from calls, principal payments and make-whole
payments is reflected as a component of proceeds from sales and cash received from maturities and pay-downs is reflected as a component of investment collections within the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows. Reported in fixed income securities are hybrid securities which have characteristics of fixed income securities and equity securities.
Many of these securities have attributes most similar to those of fixed income securities such as a stated interest rate, a mandatory redemption date or an interest rate step-up feature
which is intended to incent the issuer to redeem the security at a specified call date. Hybrid securities are carried at fair value and amounted to $1.40 billion and $2.81 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          Equity
securities primarily include common and non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate investment trust equity investments. Common and non-redeemable
preferred stocks and real estate investment trust equity investments are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The difference between cost and fair value, net of deferred
income taxes, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.   

Mortgage
loans are carried at outstanding principal balances, net of unamortized premium or discount and valuation allowances. Valuation allowances are established for impaired loans
when it is probable that contractual principal and interest will not be collected. Valuation allowances for impaired loans reduce the carrying value to the fair value of the collateral or the present
value of the loan's expected future repayment cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate.   

          Investments
in limited partnership interests, including certain interests in limited liability companies, private equity/debt funds, real estate funds and hedge funds where the Company's
interest is so minor that it exercises virtually no influence over operating and financial policies are accounted for in accordance with the cost method of accounting; otherwise, investments in
limited partnership interests are accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting.   

  146  

Short-term
investments, including money market funds, commercial paper and other short-term investments, are carried at fair value. Other investments consist
primarily of policy loans and bank loans. Bank loans are comprised primarily of senior secured corporate loans which are carried at amortized cost. Policy loans are carried at the respective unpaid
principal balances.   

          In
connection with the Company's securities lending business activities, funds received in connection with securities repurchase agreements, cash collateral received from counterparties
related to derivative transactions and securities purchased under agreements to resell are invested and classified as short-term investments or fixed income securities available for sale
as applicable. For the Company's securities lending business activities and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, the Company records an offsetting liability in other liabilities and accrued
expenses or other investments for the Company's obligation to return the collateral or funds received.   

          Investment
income consists primarily of interest and dividends, income from certain limited partnership interests and income from certain derivative transactions. Interest is recognized
on an accrual basis using the effective yield method and dividends are recorded at the ex-dividend date. Interest income for asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and
commercial mortgage-backed securities is determined considering estimated principal repayments obtained from widely accepted third party data sources and internal estimates. Interest income on
beneficial interests in securitized financial assets not of high credit quality is determined using the prospective yield method, based upon projections of expected future cash flows. For all other
asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities, the effective yield is recalculated on the retrospective basis. Accrual of income is suspended for fixed
income securities, mortgage
loans and bank loans that are in default or when receipt of interest payments is in doubt. Income from investments in limited partnership interests accounted for on the cost basis is recognized upon
receipt of amounts distributed by the partnerships as investment income. Subsequent to October 1, 2008, income from investments in limited partnership interests accounted for utilizing the
equity method of accounting ("EMA LP") is reported in realized capital gains and losses.   

          Realized
capital gains and losses include gains and losses on investment sales, write-downs in value due to other-than-temporary declines in fair value, periodic
changes in the fair value and settlements of certain derivatives including hedge ineffectiveness, and income from certain limited partnership interests. Realized capital gains and losses on investment
sales include calls and prepayments and are determined on a specific identification basis. Income from investments in limited partnership interests accounted for utilizing the equity method of
accounting is recognized based on the financial results of the entity and the Company's proportionate investment interest, and is recognized on a delay due to the availability of the related financial
statements. The recognition of income on hedge funds is primarily on a one month delay and the income recognition on private equity/debt funds and real estate funds are generally on a three month
delay.   

          The
Company recognizes other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed income securities, equity securities and short-term investments when the
decline in fair value is deemed other-than-temporary including when the Company cannot assert a positive intent to hold an impaired security until recovery (see Note 5).
Fixed income securities subject to change in intent write-downs continue to earn investment income (other than discussed above), and any discount or premium is recognized using the effective yield
method over the expected life of the security.   

    Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities     

          The Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements"
("SFAS No. 157"), as of January 1, 2008 for its financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the price that would
be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, and establishes a framework for measuring fair value. The
adoption did not have a material effect on the Company's determination of fair value.   

In
determining fair value, the Company principally uses the market approach which generally utilizes market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. To a lesser extent, the
Company uses the income approach which involves determining fair values from discounted cash flow methodologies. SFAS No. 157 establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in determining fair value
that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used when available.   

          Observable
inputs are those used by market participants in valuing financial instruments that are developed based on market data obtained from independent sources. In the absence of
sufficient observable inputs,   

  147  

unobservable
inputs reflect the Company's estimates of the assumptions market participants would use in valuing financial assets and financial liabilities and are developed based on the best
information available in the circumstances. The Company uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market disruption. In periods of market
disruption, the ability to observe prices and inputs may
be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2, or from Level 2 to Level 3.   

Financial
assets and financial liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at fair value as of December 31, 2008 are categorized in the fair value
hierarchy based on the observability of inputs to the valuation techniques as follows:   

Level 1:   
      
   Financial assets and financial liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that the Company can access.  

Level 2:   
      
   Financial assets and financial liabilities whose values are based on the following:  

a)  
      
   Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;  

b)  
      
   Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in non-active markets; or  

c)  
      
   Valuation models whose inputs are observable, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.  

Level 3:  
      
   Financial assets and financial liabilities whose values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. These inputs
reflect the Company's estimates of the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the financial assets and financial liabilities.  

The
availability of observable inputs varies by instrument. In situations where fair value is based on internally developed pricing models or inputs that are unobservable in the market,
the determination of fair value requires more judgment. The degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is typically greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3.
In many instances, valuation inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. The category level in the fair value hierarchy is determined based on the lowest
level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.   

Certain
financial assets are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis, including investments such as mortgage loans, limited partnership interests, bank loans and policy loans.
Accordingly, such investments are only included in the fair value hierarchy disclosure when the investment is subject to remeasurement at fair value after initial recognition and the resulting
remeasurement is reflected in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, equity options embedded in fixed income securities are not disclosed in the hierarchy with free-standing
derivatives as the embedded derivatives are presented with the host contract in fixed income securities.   

    Summary of significant valuation techniques for financial assets and financial liabilities on a recurring basis     

    Level 1 measurements     

Fixed income securities:     U.S. treasuries are in
Level 1 and valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in active markets that the Company can access.     
            Equity securities:     Comprise actively traded,
exchange-listed U.S. and international equity securities. Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in active markets that the Company can access.     
            Short-term:     Comprise actively traded money
market funds that have daily quoted net asset values for identical assets that the Company can access.     
            Separate account assets:     Comprise actively traded mutual
funds that have daily quoted net asset values for identical assets that the Company can access. Net asset values for the actively traded mutual funds in which the separate account assets are invested
are obtained daily from the fund managers.    

Level 2 measurements     

Fixed income securities:        

Corporate, including privately placed:       Valued based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are
not active. Also includes privately placed securities which have market-observable external ratings from independent third party rating agencies.   

148  

Municipal:       Externally rated municipals are valued based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that
are not active. Included in municipals are auction rate securities ("ARS") other than those backed by student loans. ARS backed by student loans are included in Level 3.   

   U.S. government and agencies:       Valued based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not
active.   

   Commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS"):       Valuation is principally based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar
assets in markets that are not active.   

   Preferred stock; Mortgage-backed securities ("MBS"); Foreign government; Asset-backed securities ("ABS") credit card:       Valued
based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active.    

Equity securities:     Valued based on inputs including quoted
prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active.     
            Short-term:     Commercial paper and other
short-term investments are valued based on quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active or amortized cost.     
            Other investments:     Free-standing exchange
listed derivatives that are not actively traded are valued based on quoted prices for identical instruments in markets that are not active.    

Over-the-counter
("OTC") derivatives, including interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, certain credit default swaps, and commodity
swaps, are valued using models that rely on inputs such as interest rate yield curves, currency rates, adjustment for counterparty credit risks, and commodity prices that are observable for
substantially the full term of the contract. The valuation techniques underlying the models are widely accepted in the financial services industry and do not involve significant judgment.   

Contractholder funds:     Derivatives embedded in certain
annuity contracts are valued based on internal models that rely on inputs such as interest rate yield curves and equity index volatility assumptions that are market observable for substantially the
full term of the contract. The valuation techniques are widely accepted in the financial services industry and do not include significant judgment.    

Level 3 measurements     

Fixed income securities:        

Corporate:       Valued based on non-binding broker quotes and are categorized as Level 3.   

   Corporate privately placed:       Valued based on non-binding broker quotes and models that are widely accepted in the financial
services industry and use internally assigned credit ratings as inputs and instrument specific inputs. Instrument specific inputs used in internal fair value determinations include coupon rate, coupon
type, weighted average life, sector of the issuer and call provisions. Privately placed securities are categorized as Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-market
observable inputs. The internally modeled securities are valued based on internal ratings, which are not observable in the market. Multiple internal ratings comprise a National Association of
Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") rating category and when used in the internal model provide a more refined determination of fair value. The Company's internal ratings are primarily consistent with
the NAIC ratings which are generally updated annually.   

   Municipal:       ARS primarily backed by student loans that have become illiquid due to failures in the auction market and municipal bonds that
are not rated by third party credit rating agencies but are generally rated by the NAIC are included in Level 3. ARS backed by student loans are valued based on a discounted cash flow model
with certain inputs to the valuation model that are significant to the valuation, but are not market observable, including estimates of future coupon rates if auction failures continue, maturity
assumptions, and illiquidity premium. Non-rated municipal bonds are valued based on valuation models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry and require projections of
future cash flows that are not market-observable, and are categorized as Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-market observable inputs.   

   ABS residential mortgage-backed securities ("ABS RMBS"); Alt-A residential mortgage-backed securities
("Alt-A"):       ABS RMBS and Alt-A are principally valued based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets
that exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets supporting Level 2   

149  

fair
value measurements. Certain ABS RMBS and Alt-A are valued based on non-binding broker quotes. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant
observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been experienced in the market for these securities, all ABS RMBS and Alt-A are categorized as Level 3.   

Other collateralized debt obligations ("CDO"); ABS collateralized debt obligations ("ABS CDO"):       Valued based on non-binding
broker quotes received from brokers who are familiar with the investments. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a result of the decrease in
liquidity that has been experienced in the market for these securities, all collateralized loan obligations ("CLO"), ABS CDO, and synthetic collateralized debt obligations are categorized as
Level 3.   

   CMBS; Commercial real estate collateralized debt obligations ("CRE CDO"):       CRE CDO, which are reported as CMBS, and other CMBS, are either
valued based on non-binding broker quotes or based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets
supporting Level 2 fair value measurements. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been
experienced in the market for these securities, certain CMBS are categorized as Level 3.   

   ABS credit card, auto and student loans:       Valued based on inputs including quoted prices for identical or similar assets in
markets that are not active. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been experienced in the market for
these securities, they are categorized as Level 3.    

Other investments:     Certain free-standing OTC
derivatives, such as caps, floors, certain credit default swaps and OTC options (including swaptions), are valued using valuation models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry.
Inputs include non-market observable inputs such as volatility assumptions that are significant to the valuation of the instruments.     
            Contractholder funds:     Derivatives embedded in annuity
contracts are valued internally using models widely accepted in the financial services industry that determine a single best estimate of fair value for the embedded derivatives within a block of
contractholder liabilities. The models use stochastically determined cash flows based on the contractual elements of embedded derivatives and other applicable market data. These are categorized as
Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-market observable inputs.    

Financial assets and financial liabilities on a non-recurring basis     

          Mortgage loans and other investments written-down to fair value in connection with recognizing
other-than-temporary impairments are valued using valuation models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry. Inputs to the valuation models include
non-market observable inputs such as credit spreads. Limited partnership interests written-down to fair value in connection with recognizing other-than-temporary impairments are valued
using net asset values and other sources. At December 31, 2008, mortgage loans, limited partnership interests and other investments with a fair value of $301 million were included in the
fair value hierarchy in Level 3 since they were subject to remeasurement at fair value at December 31, 2008.   

    Fair value measurement prior to adoption of SFAS No. 157     

          Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008, the fair value of fixed income securities was based upon
observable market quotations, other market observable data or was derived from such quotations and market observable data. The fair value of privately placed fixed income securities was generally
based on widely accepted pricing valuation models, which were developed internally. The valuation models used security specific information such as the credit rating of the issuer, industry sector of
the issuer, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, coupon rate, quoted market prices of comparable securities and estimated liquidity premiums to determine the
overall spread for the specific security.   

  150  

Derivative and embedded derivative financial instruments     

          Derivative financial instruments include interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, futures (interest rate, equity and commodity),
options (including swaptions), interest rate caps and floors, warrants and rights, forward contracts to hedge foreign currency risk, certain investment risk transfer reinsurance agreements, forward
sale commitments and certain bond forward purchase commitments. Derivatives that are required to be separated from the host instrument and accounted for as derivative financial instruments ("subject
to bifurcation") are embedded in convertible and equity-indexed fixed income securities, equity-indexed life and annuity contracts, reinsured variable annuity contracts, and certain funding agreements
(see Note 6).   

          All
derivatives are accounted for on a fair value basis and reported as other investments, other assets, other liabilities and accrued expenses or contractholder funds. Embedded
derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are also accounted for on a fair value basis and are reported together with the host contract. The change in the fair value of derivatives embedded in
certain fixed income securities and subject to bifurcation is reported in realized capital gains and losses. The change in the fair value of derivatives embedded in liabilities and subject to
bifurcation is reported in life and annuity contract benefits, interest credited to contractholder funds or realized capital gains and losses. Cash flows from embedded derivatives requiring
bifurcation and derivatives receiving hedge accounting are reported consistently with the host contracts and hedged risks respectively within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Cash flows from
other derivatives are reported in cash flows from investing activities within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   

          When
derivatives meet specific criteria, they may be designated as accounting hedges and accounted for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or foreign currency cash flow
hedges. The hedged item may be either all or a specific portion of a recognized asset, liability or an unrecognized firm commitment attributable to a particular risk for fair value hedges. At the
inception of the hedge, the Company formally documents the hedging relationship and risk management objective and strategy. The documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the
nature of the risk being hedged and the methodology used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item's fair value attributable to the
hedged risk. In the case of a cash flow hedge, this documentation includes the exposure to changes in the variability in cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The Company does not exclude any
component of the
change in fair value of the hedging instrument from the effectiveness assessment. At each reporting date, the Company confirms that the hedging instrument continues to be highly effective in
offsetting the hedged risk. Ineffectiveness in fair value hedges and cash flow hedges is reported in realized capital gains and losses. The hedge ineffectiveness reported in realized capital gains and
losses amounted to losses of $4 million, $13 million and $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

Fair value hedges       The Company designates certain of its interest rate and foreign currency swap contracts and certain investment risk
transfer
reinsurance agreements as fair value hedges when the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the risk of changes in the fair value of the hedged item.   

          For
hedging instruments used in fair value hedges, when the hedged items are investment assets or a portion thereof, the change in the fair value of the derivatives is reported in net
investment income, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged items. The change in the fair value of hedging instruments used in fair value hedges of contractholder funds liabilities or
a portion thereof is reported in interest credited to contractholder funds, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged items. Accrued periodic settlements on swaps are reported together
with the changes in fair value of the swaps in net investment income or interest credited to contractholder funds. The amortized cost for fixed income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans
or the carrying value of the hedged liability is adjusted for the change in the fair value of the hedged risk.   

            Cash flow hedges       The Company designates certain of its foreign currency swap contracts and bond forward commitments as cash flow hedges
when the
hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the exposure of variations in cash flows for the hedged risk that could affect net income. The Company's cash flow exposure may be associated with
an existing asset, liability or a forecasted transaction including the anticipated issuance of corporate debt. Anticipated transactions must be probable of occurrence and their significant terms and
specific characteristics must be identified.   

          For
hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value of the derivatives representing the effective portion of the hedge are reported in accumulated other
comprehensive income. Amounts are reclassified to net investment income, realized capital gains and losses or interest expense as the hedged or forecasted transaction affects net income. Accrued
periodic settlements on derivatives used in cash flow hedges are reported in net investment income. The amount reported in accumulated other comprehensive income for a hedged transaction is limited to
the lesser of the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative less the amount   

  151  

reclassified
to net income; or the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative needed to offset the cumulative change in the expected future cash flows on the hedged transaction from inception of the
hedge less the derivative gain or loss previously reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income. If the Company expects at any time that the loss reported in accumulated other
comprehensive income would lead to a net loss on the combination of the hedging instrument and the hedged transaction which may not be recoverable, a loss is recognized immediately in realized capital
gains and losses. If an impairment loss is recognized on an asset or an additional obligation is incurred on a liability involved in a hedge transaction, any offsetting gain in accumulated other
comprehensive income is reclassified and reported together with the impairment loss or recognition of the obligation.   

            Termination of hedge accounting       If, subsequent to entering into a hedge transaction, the derivative becomes ineffective (including if
the hedged item
is sold or otherwise extinguished, the occurrence of a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, or the hedged asset becomes other-than-temporarily impaired), the
Company may terminate the derivative position. The Company may also terminate derivative instruments or redesignate them as non-hedge as a result of other events or circumstances. If the
derivative financial instrument is not terminated when a fair value hedge is no longer effective, the future gains and losses recognized on the derivative are reported in realized capital gains and
losses. When a fair value hedge is no longer effective, is redesignated as non-hedge or when the derivative has been terminated, the fair value gain or loss on the hedged asset, liability
or portion thereof which has already been recognized in income while the hedge was in place and used to adjust the amortized cost for fixed income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans or
the carrying amount for the liability, is amortized over the remaining life of the hedged asset, liability, or portion thereof, and reflected in net investment income, interest credited to
contractholder funds or interest expense beginning in the period that hedge accounting is no longer applied. If the hedged item in a fair value hedge is an asset which has become
other-than-temporarily impaired, the adjustment made to the amortized cost for fixed income securities or the carrying value for mortgage loans is subject to the accounting
policies applied to other-than-temporarily impaired assets.   

          When
a derivative financial instrument used in a cash flow hedge of an existing asset or liability is no longer effective or is terminated, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative
is reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income as the hedged risk impacts net income. If the derivative financial instrument is not terminated when a cash flow hedge is no
longer effective, the future gains and losses recognized on the derivative are reported in realized capital gains and losses. When a derivative financial instrument used in a cash flow hedge of a
forecasted transaction is terminated because the forecasted transaction is no longer probable, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative is immediately reclassified from accumulated other
comprehensive income to realized capital gains and losses in the period that hedge accounting is no longer applied. If a cash flow hedge is no longer effective, the gain or loss recognized on the
derivative during the period the hedge was effective is reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income as the remaining hedged item affects net income.   

Non-hedge derivative financial instruments       The Company also has certain derivatives that are used in interest rate, equity price,
commodity price and credit risk management strategies for which hedge accounting is not applied. These derivatives primarily consist of certain interest rate swap agreements, equity options and
futures, commodity and financial futures contracts, interest rate cap and floor agreements, swaptions, foreign currency forward and option contracts and credit default swaps.   

          In
addition to the use of credit default swaps for credit risk management strategies, the Company replicates fixed income securities using a combination of a credit default swap and one
or more highly rated fixed income securities to synthetically replicate the economic characteristics of one or more cash market securities. Fixed income securities are replicated when they are either
unavailable in the cash market or are more economical to acquire in synthetic form.   

          The
Company obtains commodity-based investment exposure through the use of excess return swaps whose return is tied to a commodity-based index. The Company also uses certain commodity
futures to periodically rebalance its exposure under commodity-indexed excess return swaps as they are typically very liquid and highly correlated with the commodity-based index.   

          Based
upon the type of derivative instrument and strategy, the income statement effects of these derivatives are reported in a single line item with the results of the associated risk.
Therefore, the derivatives' fair value gains and losses and accrued periodic settlements are recognized together in one of the following during the reporting period: net investment income, realized
capital gains and losses, operating costs and expenses, life and annuity contract benefits or interest credited to contractholder funds.   

  152  

Securities loaned and security repurchase and resale     

          The Company's business activities include securities lending transactions, securities sold under agreements to repurchase ("repurchase
agreements"), and securities purchased under agreements to resell ("resale agreements"), which are used primarily to generate net investment income. The proceeds received from repurchase agreements
also provide a source of liquidity. For repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions used to generate net investment income, the proceeds received are reinvested in short-term
investments or fixed income securities. These transactions are short-term in nature, usually 30 days or less.   

          The
Company receives cash collateral for securities loaned in an amount generally equal to 102% and 105% of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, respectively, and records
the related obligations to return the collateral in other liabilities and accrued expenses or other investments. The carrying value of these obligations approximates fair value because of their
relatively short-term nature. The Company monitors the market value of securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains additional collateral as necessary under the terms of the agreements
to mitigate counterparty credit risk. The Company maintains the right and ability to redeem the securities loaned on short notice. Substantially all of the Company's securities loaned are placed with
large banks.   

          The
Company's policy is to take possession or control of securities under resale agreements. Securities to be repurchased under repurchase agreements are the same, or substantially the
same, as the securities transferred. The Company's obligations to return the funds received under repurchase agreements are carried at the amount at which the securities will subsequently be
reacquired, including accrued interest, as specified in the respective agreements and are classified as other liabilities and accrued expenses or other investments. The carrying value of these
obligations approximates fair value because of their relatively short-term nature.   

    Recognition of premium revenues and contract charges, and related benefits and interest credited     

          Property-liability premiums are deferred and earned on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies. The portion of
premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums. Premium installment receivables, net, represent premiums written and not yet collected, net of an
allowance for uncollectible premiums. The Company regularly evaluates premium installment receivables and adjusts its valuation allowance as appropriate. The valuation allowance for uncollectible
premium installment receivables was $70 million and $68 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          Traditional
life insurance products consist principally of products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits, primarily term and whole life insurance products. Premiums from these
products are recognized as revenue when due from policyholders. Benefits are reflected in life and annuity contract benefits and recognized in relation to premiums, so that profits are recognized over
the life of the policy.   

          Immediate
annuities with life contingencies, including certain structured settlement annuities, provide insurance protection over a period that extends beyond the period during which
premiums are collected. Premiums from these products are recognized as revenue when received at the inception of the contract. Benefits and expenses are recognized in relation to premiums. Profits
from these policies come from investment income, which is recognized over the life of the contract.   

          Interest-sensitive
life contracts, such as universal life and single premium life are insurance contracts whose terms are not fixed and guaranteed. The terms that may be changed include
premiums paid by the contractholder, interest credited to the contractholder account balance and contract charges assessed against the contractholder account balance. Premiums from these contracts are
reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balance for the cost of insurance (mortality risk), contract administration and
early surrender. These contract charges are recognized as revenue when assessed against the contractholder account balance. Life and annuity contract benefits include life-contingent
benefit payments in excess of the contractholder account balance.   

          Contracts
that do not subject the Company to significant risk arising from mortality or morbidity are referred to as investment contracts. Fixed annuities, including market value
adjusted annuities, equity-indexed annuities and immediate annuities without life contingencies, and funding agreements (primarily backing medium-term notes) are considered investment
contracts. Consideration received for such contracts is reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges for investment contracts consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account
balance for maintenance, administration and surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates, and are recognized when assessed against the contractholder account balance.   

          Interest
credited to contractholder funds represents interest accrued or paid on interest-sensitive life contracts and investment contracts. Crediting rates for certain fixed annuities
and interest-sensitive life contracts   

  153  

are
adjusted periodically by the Company to reflect current market conditions subject to contractually guaranteed minimum rates. Crediting rates for indexed annuities and indexed funding agreements
are generally based on a specified interest rate index, such as LIBOR, or an equity index, such as the Standard   Poor's ("S P") 500 Index. Interest credited also includes amortization of DSI
expenses. DSI is amortized into interest credited using the same method used to amortize DAC.   

Contract
charges for variable life and variable annuity products consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account values for contract maintenance, administration, mortality,
expense and early surrender. Contract benefits incurred include guaranteed minimum death, income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits. Subsequent to the Allstate Financial segment's disposal of
substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential in 2006 (see Note 3), the contract charges and contract benefits related thereto are reported
net of reinsurance ceded.   

    Deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs     

          Costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring property-liability insurance, life insurance and investment contracts are
deferred and recorded as DAC. These costs are principally agents' and brokers' remuneration, premium taxes, inspection costs, and certain underwriting and direct mail solicitation
expenses. DSI costs, which are deferred and recorded as other assets, relate to sales inducements offered on sales to new customers, principally on annuities and primarily in the form of additional
credits to the customer's account value or enhancements to interest credited for a specified period, which are in excess of the rates currently being credited to similar contracts without sales
inducements. All other acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and included in operating costs and expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. DAC associated with property-liability
insurance is amortized to income as premiums are earned, typically over periods of six or twelve months, and is included in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs on the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Future investment income is considered in determining the recoverability of DAC. Amortization of DAC associated with life insurance and investment contracts is included in
amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and is described in more detail below. DSI is amortized to income using the same methodology and
assumptions as DAC and is included in interest credited to contractholder funds on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. DAC and DSI are periodically reviewed for recoverability and adjusted if
necessary.   

          For
traditional life insurance, DAC is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Assumptions used in the
amortization of DAC and reserve calculations are established at the time the policy is issued and are generally not revised during the life of the policy. Any deviations from projected business in
force resulting from actual policy terminations differing from expected levels and any estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events
occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these policies approximates the estimated lives of the policies.   

          For
interest-sensitive life, annuities and other investment contracts, DAC and DSI are amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which
includes both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on
the prior period DAC balance and uses rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating
estimates of customer surrender rates, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized during the surrender charge period. The rate of amortization during
this term is matched to the recognition pattern of total gross profits.   

          AGP
and EGP consist primarily of the following components: contract charges for the cost of insurance less mortality costs and other benefits; investment income and realized capital
gains and losses less interest credited; and surrender and other contract charges less maintenance expenses. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are investment returns,
including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of persistency, mortality, expenses, and hedges if
applicable.   

          Changes
in the amount or timing of EGP result in adjustments to the cumulative amortization of DAC and DSI. All such adjustments are reflected in the current results of operations.   

          The
Company performs quarterly reviews of DAC and DSI recoverability for interest-sensitive life, annuities and other investment contracts in the aggregate using current assumptions. If
a change in the amount of EGP is significant, it could result in the unamortized DAC and DSI not being recoverable, resulting in a charge which is   

  154  

included
as a component of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs or interest credited to contractholder funds, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

          Any
amortization of DAC or DSI that would result from changes in unrealized capital gains or losses had those gains or losses actually been realized during the reporting period is
recorded net of tax in other comprehensive income. Recapitalization of DAC and DSI is limited to the originally deferred costs plus interest.   

          Customers
of the Company may exchange one insurance policy or investment contract for another offered by the Company, or make modifications to an existing investment, life or
property-liability contract issued by the Company. These transactions are identified as internal replacements for accounting purposes. Internal replacement transactions that are determined to result
in replacement contracts that are substantially unchanged from the replaced contracts are accounted for as continuations of the replaced contracts. Unamortized DAC and DSI related to the replaced
contract continue to be deferred and amortized in connection with the replacement contract. For interest-sensitive life insurance and investment contracts, the EGP of the replacement contract is
treated as a revision to the EGP of the replaced contract in the determination of amortization of DAC and DSI. For traditional life and property-liability insurance policies, any changes to
unamortized DAC and benefit reserves that result from the replacement contract are treated as prospective revisions. Any costs associated with the issuance of the replacement contract are
characterized as maintenance costs and expensed as incurred.   

          Internal
replacement transactions that are determined to result in a substantial change to the replaced contracts are accounted for as an extinguishment of the replaced contracts, and
any unamortized DAC and DSI related to the replaced contracts are eliminated with a corresponding charge to the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

          The
costs assigned to the right to receive future cash flows from certain business purchased from other insurers are also classified as DAC in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. The costs capitalized represent the present value of future profits expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts acquired. These costs are amortized as profits emerge over the lives
of the acquired business and are periodically evaluated for recoverability. The present value of future profits was $187 million and $99 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Amortization expense on the present value of future profits was $21 million, $12 million and $41 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.   

    Reinsurance     

          In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to limit aggregate and single exposure to losses on large risks by purchasing
reinsurance (see Note 9). The Company has also used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. The amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position as reinsurance recoverables include amounts billed to reinsurers on losses paid as well as estimates of amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers on insurance liabilities and
contractholder funds that have not yet been paid. Reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses are estimated based upon assumptions consistent with those used in establishing the liabilities related to
the underlying reinsured contracts. Insurance liabilities are reported gross of reinsurance recoverables. Reinsurance premiums are generally reflected in income in a manner consistent with the
recognition of premiums on the reinsured contracts. For catastrophe coverage, reinsurance premiums are earned ratably over the contract period to the extent coverage remains available. Reinsurance
does not extinguish the Company's primary liability under the policies written. Therefore, the Company regularly evaluates the financial condition of its reinsurers including their activities with
respect to claim settlement practices and commutations, and establishes allowances for uncollectible reinsurance recoverables as appropriate.   

    Goodwill     

          Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The goodwill
balances were $456 million and $418 million as of December 31, 2008 and $407 million and $418 million as of December 31, 2007 for the Allstate Protection
segment and the Allstate Financial segment, respectively. The Company annually evaluates goodwill for impairment using both a discounted cash flow analysis and a trading multiple analysis, which are
widely accepted valuation techniques to estimate the fair value of its reporting units. The Company also reviews its goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of goodwill may exceed its implied fair value. Goodwill impairment evaluations indicated no impairment at December 31, 2008 or 2007.   

  155  

Property and equipment     

          Property and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Included in property and equipment are capitalized costs
related to computer software licenses and software developed for internal use. These costs generally consist of certain external payroll and payroll related costs. Certain facilities and equipment
held under capital leases are also classified as property and equipment with the related lease obligations recorded as liabilities. Property and equipment depreciation is calculated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally 3 to 10 years for equipment and 40 years for real property. Depreciation expense is reported in
operating costs and expenses. Accumulated depreciation on property and equipment was $2.12 billion and $1.94 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Depreciation
expense on property and equipment was $240 million, $224 million and $235 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company reviews
its property and equipment for impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.   

Income taxes     

          The income tax provision is calculated under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the
difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. The principal assets and liabilities giving rise to such differences are unrealized capital
gains and losses on certain investments, differences in tax bases of invested assets, insurance reserves, unearned premiums, DAC and employee benefits. A deferred tax asset valuation allowance is
established when there is uncertainty that such assets would be realized (see Note 14).   

    Reserves for property liability insurance claims and claims expense and life-contingent contract benefits     

The reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense is the estimate of amounts necessary to settle all reported and unreported
claims for the ultimate cost of insured property-liability losses, based upon the facts of each case and the Company's experience with similar cases. Estimated amounts of salvage and subrogation are
deducted from the reserve for claims and claims expense. The establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. Reserve
estimates are regularly reviewed and updated, using the most current information available. Any resulting reestimates are reflected in current results of operations (see Note 7).   

The
reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, life-contingent immediate annuities and
voluntary health products, is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses (see
Note 8). These assumptions, which for traditional life insurance are applied using the net level premium method, include provisions for adverse deviation and generally vary by characteristics
such as type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. To the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a premium deficiency had those gains actually been realized,
the related increase in reserves for certain immediate annuities with life contingencies is recorded net of tax as a reduction of unrealized net capital gains included in accumulated other
comprehensive income.   

    Contractholder funds     

          Contractholder funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products, such as interest-sensitive life, fixed
annuities, bank deposits and funding agreements. Contractholder funds are comprised primarily of deposits received and interest credited to the benefit of the contractholder less surrenders and
withdrawals, mortality charges and administrative expenses (see Note 8). Contractholder funds also include reserves for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance and certain
fixed annuity contracts and reserves for certain guarantees on reinsured variable annuity contracts.   

    Separate accounts     

          Separate accounts assets are carried at fair value. The assets of the separate accounts are legally segregated and available only to
settle separate account contract obligations. Separate accounts liabilities represent the contractholders' claims to the related assets and are carried at an amount equal to the separate accounts
assets. Investment income and realized capital gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contractholders and therefore, are not included in the Company's Consolidated Statements
of Operations. Deposits to and surrenders and withdrawals from the separate accounts are reflected in separate accounts liabilities and are not included in consolidated cash flows.   

  156  

Absent
any contract provision wherein the Company provides a guarantee, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts'
funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. Substantially all of the Company's variable annuity business is reinsured to Prudential beginning in 2006.   

    Deferred Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") expense     

          Deferred ESOP expense represents the remaining unrecognized cost of shares acquired by the Allstate ESOP to pre-fund a
portion of the Company's contribution to The Savings and Profit Sharing Plan of Allstate Employees (see Note 16).   

    Equity incentive plans     

          The Company currently has equity incentive plans that permit the Company to grant nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options,
restricted or unrestricted shares of the Company's stock and restricted stock units ("equity awards") to certain employees and directors of the Company (see Note 17). The Company recognizes the
fair value of equity awards computed at the award date over the period in which the requisite service is rendered. The Company uses a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of employee
stock options.   

    Off-balance-sheet financial instruments     

          Commitments to invest, commitments to purchase private placement securities, commitments to fund mortgage loans, financial guarantees
and credit guarantees have off-balance-sheet risk because their contractual amounts are not recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (see Note 6 and
Note 13).   

    Consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs")     

          The Company consolidates VIEs when it is the primary beneficiary. A primary beneficiary is the variable interest that will absorb a
majority of the expected losses or receive a majority of the entity's expected returns, or both (see Note 11).   

    Foreign currency translation     

          The local currency of the Company's foreign subsidiaries is deemed to be the functional currency of the country in which these
subsidiaries operate. The financial statements of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of a reporting period for assets and
liabilities and at average exchange rates during the period for results of operations. The unrealized gains and losses from the translation of the net assets are recorded as unrealized foreign
currency translation adjustments and included in accumulated other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Changes in unrealized foreign currency translation
adjustments are included in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are reported in operating costs and expenses and have not been significant.   

Earnings per share     

          Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is
computed based on weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding. For Allstate, dilutive potential common shares consist of outstanding stock options and restricted
stock units.   

  157  

The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, is presented in the following table.   

As
a result of the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008, weighted average dilutive potential common shares outstanding resulting from stock options of 1.3 million
and unvested restricted stock units of 1.3 million were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share since inclusion of these securities would have an anti-dilutive
effect. In the absence of the net loss, weighted average common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding would have totaled 548.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

          The
effect of dilutive potential common shares does not include the effect of options with an anti-dilutive effect on earnings per share because their exercise prices exceed
the average market price of Allstate common shares during the period or for which the unrecognized compensation cost would have an anti-dilutive effect. Options to purchase
27.1 million, 8.9 million and 0.4 million Allstate common shares, with exercise prices ranging from $28.41 to $65.38, $52.23 to $65.38 and $52.23 to $62.42, were outstanding at
December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share in those years.   

  158  

Adopted accounting standards     

    Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 109, Written Loan Commitments That are Recorded At Fair Value Through Earnings
("SAB 109")     

          In October 2007, the SEC issued SAB 109, a replacement of SAB 105, "Application of Accounting Principles to Loan
Commitments". SAB 109 is applicable to both loan commitments accounted for under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"), and
other loan commitments for which the issuer elects fair value accounting under SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities". SAB 109 states that
the expected net future cash flows related to the servicing of a loan should be included in the fair value measurement of a loan commitment accounted for at fair value through earnings. The expected
net future cash flows associated with loan servicing should be determined in accordance with the guidance in SFAS No. 140, "Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities", as amended by SFAS No. 156, "Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets". SAB 109 should be applied on a prospective basis to loan commitments
accounted for under SFAS No. 133 that were issued or modified in fiscal quarters beginning after December 15, 2007. Earlier adoption was not permitted. The adoption of SAB 109 did
not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

    SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements ("SFAS No. 157")     

          In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 157, which redefines fair value as the
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, establishes a framework for measuring fair
value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 establishes a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements based upon the nature of the inputs to the
valuation of an asset or liability. SFAS No. 157 applies where other accounting pronouncements require or permit fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
No. 157-2, "Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157" ("FSP FAS 157-2"), which permits the deferral of the effective date of SFAS No. 157 to fiscal
years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all non-financial assets and liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
recurring basis. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157 for financial assets and financial liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring or
non-recurring basis as of January 1, 2008. Consistent with the provisions of FSP FAS 157-2, the Company decided to defer the adoption of SFAS No. 157 for
non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis until January 1, 2009. In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No.
FAS 157-3, "Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active" ("FSP FAS 157-3"), which clarifies the application of
SFAS 157 in a market that is not active. The Company adopted the provisions of FSP FAS 157-3 as of September 30, 2008. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 and FSP
FAS 157-3 did not have a material effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position (see Note 6).   

    SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115 ("SFAS
No. 159")     

          In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 which provides reporting entities, on an ongoing basis, an option to report
selected financial assets, including investment securities, and financial liabilities, including most insurance contracts, at fair value through earnings. SFAS No. 159 establishes presentation
and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement alternatives for similar types of financial assets and liabilities. The standard also
requires additional information to aid financial statement users' understanding of the impacts of a reporting entity's decision to use fair value on its earnings and requires entities to display, on
the face of the statement of financial position, the fair value of those assets and liabilities for which the reporting entity has chosen to measure at fair value. SFAS No. 159 was effective as
of the beginning of a reporting entity's first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company did not apply the fair value option to any existing financial assets or liabilities as
of January 1, 2008 and did not elect to apply the option prospectively to any financial assets or liabilities acquired during 2008. Consequently, the adoption of SFAS No. 159 had no
impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

    FASB Staff Position No. FIN 39-1, Amendment of FASB Interpretation No. 39 ("FSP FIN 39-1")     

          In April 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN 39-1, which amends FASB Interpretation No. 39, "Offsetting of Amounts
Related to Certain Contracts". FSP FIN 39-1 replaces the terms "conditional contracts" and "exchange   

  159  

contracts"
with the term "derivative instruments" and requires a reporting entity to offset fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash
collateral against fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement that have been offset in the statement of
financial position. FSP FIN 39-1 was effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of FSP
FIN 39-1 did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

    SFAS No. 158, Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)
("SFAS No. 158")     

          SFAS No. 158 required, as of December 31, 2006 for calendar year-end companies, recognition in the statements
of financial position of the over or underfunded status of defined pension and other postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit
obligation ("PBO") for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ("APBO") for other postretirement benefit plans. This effectively required the recognition of all previously
unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, at the date of adoption. In addition, SFAS No. 158
required, on a prospective basis, that the actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs and credits that arise during any reporting period, but are not recognized as components of net periodic
benefit cost, be recognized as a component of other comprehensive income ("OCI") and that disclosure in the notes to the financial statements include the anticipated impact on the net periodic benefit
cost of the actuarial gains and losses and the prior service costs and credits previously deferred and recognized, net of tax, as a component of OCI. The Company adopted the funded status provisions
of SFAS No. 158 as of December 31, 2006. The impact on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of adopting SFAS No. 158, including the inter-related impact to the
minimum pension liability, was a decrease in shareholders' equity of $1.11 billion.   

          In
addition to the impacts of reporting the funded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans and the related additional disclosures, SFAS No. 158 required reporting
entities to conform plan measurement dates with the fiscal year-end reporting date. The effective date of the guidance relating to the measurement date of the plans is for years ending
after December 15, 2008. The Company remeasured its plans as of January 1, 2008 to transition to a December 31 measurement date in 2008. As a result, the Company recorded a
decrease of $13 million, net of tax, to beginning retained income in 2008 representing the net periodic benefit cost for the period between October 31, 2007 and December 31, 2007
and a decrease of $80 million, net of tax, to beginning accumulated other comprehensive income in 2008 to reflect changes in the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligations between
October 31, 2007 and January 1, 2008, and for amortization of actuarial gains and losses and prior service cost between October 31, 2007 and December 31, 2007.   

Statement of Position 05-1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection with Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance
Contracts ("SOP 05-1")     

          In October 2005, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants ("AICPA") issued SOP 05-1.
SOP 05-1 provides accounting guidance for DAC associated with internal replacements of insurance and investment contracts other than those set forth in SFAS No. 97,
"Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long-Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments". SOP 05-1 defines
an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits, features, rights or coverages that occurs through the exchange of an existing contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement
or rider to an existing contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within an existing contract. The Company adopted the provisions of SOP 05-1 on January 1, 2007
for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The adoption resulted in a $9 million after-tax reduction to retained income to reflect
the impact on EGP from the changes in accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer qualify for deferral under SOP 05-1 and a reduction of DAC
and DSI balances of $13 million pre-tax as of January 1, 2007.   

    SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140 ("SFAS No. 155")     

In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, which permits the fair value remeasurement at the date of adoption of any hybrid
financial instrument containing an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation under paragraph 12 or 13 of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"); clarifies which interest-only strips and principal-only strips are not subject to the requirements of SFAS No. 133;
establishes a requirement to evaluate interests in securitized financial assets to identify interests that are freestanding derivatives or hybrid financial instruments that contain embedded   

  160  

derivatives
requiring bifurcation; and clarifies that concentrations of credit risk in the form of subordination are not embedded derivatives. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 155
on January 1, 2007, which were effective for all financial instruments acquired, issued or subject to a remeasurement event occurring after the beginning of the first fiscal year beginning
after September 15, 2006. The Company elected not to remeasure existing hybrid financial instruments that contained embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation at the date of adoption pursuant
to paragraph 12 or 13 of SFAS No. 133. The adoption of SFAS No. 155 did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

    FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 and FASB Staff Position No.
FIN 48-1, Definition of Settlement in FASB Interpretation No. 48 (collectively "FIN 48")     

          The FASB issued the interpretation in July 2006 and the related staff position in May 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for
uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an entity's financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes". FIN 48 requires an entity to recognize the tax
benefit of uncertain tax positions only when it is more likely than not, based on the position's technical merits, that the position would be sustained upon examination by the respective taxing
authorities. The tax benefit is measured as the largest benefit that is more than fifty-percent likely of being realized upon final settlement with the respective taxing authorities. On
January 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48, which were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. No cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle or adjustment to the liability for unrecognized tax benefits was recognized as a result of the adoption of FIN 48. Accordingly, the adoption of FIN 48 did not have
an effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company (see Note 14).   

    SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements
("SAB 108")     

          In September 2006, the SEC issued SAB 108 to eliminate the diversity of practice in the way misstatements are quantified for
purposes of assessing their materiality in financial statements. SAB 108 was intended to eliminate the potential build up of improper amounts on the balance sheet due to the limitations of
certain methods of assessing materiality previously utilized by some reporting entities. SAB 108 established a single quantification framework wherein the significance determination is based on
the effects of the misstatements on each of the financial statements as well as the related financial statement disclosures. On December 31, 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of
SAB 108 which were effective for the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006. The adoption of SAB 108 did not have any effect on the results of operations or financial
position of the Company.   

    FASB Staff Position No. FAS 115-1/124-1, The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain
Investments ("FSP FAS 115-1/124-1")     

          FSP FAS 115-1/124-1 nullified the guidance in paragraphs 10-18 of Emerging Issues
Task Force Issue 03-1, "The Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments" and references existing
other-than-temporary impairment guidance. FSP FAS 115-1/124-1 clarifies that an investor should recognize an impairment loss no later than when
the impairment is deemed other-than-temporary, even if a decision to sell the security has not been made, and also provides guidance on the subsequent income recognition for
impaired debt securities. The Company adopted FSP FAS 115-1/124-1 as of January 1, 2006 on a prospective basis. The effects of adoption did not have a material
effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

    SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 ("SFAS No. 154")     

SFAS No. 154 replaced Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 20, "Accounting Changes", and SFAS No. 3,
"Reporting Accounting Changes in Interim Financial Statements". SFAS No. 154 requires retrospective application to prior periods' financial statements for changes in accounting principle,
unless determination of either the period specific effects or the cumulative effect of the change is impracticable or otherwise not required. The Company adopted SFAS No. 154 on
January 1, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 154 did not have any effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

  161  

SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("SFAS No. 123(R)")     

          SFAS No. 123(R) revised SFAS No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-based Compensation" and superseded APB Opinion No. 25
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". SFAS No. 123(R) requires all share-based payment transactions to be accounted for using a fair value based method to recognize the cost of awards
over the period in which the requisite service is rendered. The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective application method for adoption, and
therefore the prior year results were not restated. The adoption impacts of SFAS No. 123(R), which included the recognition of compensation expense related to options with a four year vesting
requirement that were granted in 2002 and not fully vested on January 1, 2006, were not material to the results of operations or financial position of the Company. The Company previously
adopted the expense provisions of SFAS No. 123 for awards granted or modified subsequent to January 1, 2003, which also did not have a material effect on the results of operations
or financial position of the Company.   

    FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123(R)-3, Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards ("FSP
FAS 123(R)-3")     

          FSP FAS 123(R)-3 provided companies an option to elect an alternative calculation method for determining the pool of
excess tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). SFAS No. 123(R) requires companies to calculate the pool of excess tax
benefits as the net excess tax benefits that would have qualified had the company adopted SFAS No. 123 for recognition purposes when first effective in 1995. FSP FAS 123(R)-3
provided an alternative calculation based on actual increases to additional paid-in capital related to tax benefits from share-based compensation subsequent to the effective date of SFAS
No. 123, less the tax on the cumulative incremental compensation costs the company included in its pro forma net income disclosures as if the company had applied the fair-value
method to all awards, less the share-based compensation costs included in net income as reported. In conjunction with its adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006, the Company
elected the alternative transition method described in FSP FAS 123(R)-3. The effect of the transition calculation did not have a material effect on the results of operations or
financial position of the Company.   

    FSP No. FAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4, Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement
No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161 ("FSP FAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4")     

          In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4, which amends SFAS No. 133
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133"), and FIN 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45"), to both enhance and synchronize the disclosure requirements of the two statements with respect to the potential for adverse effects of changes
in
credit risk on the financial statements of the sellers of credit derivatives and certain guarantees. SFAS No. 133 was amended to require disclosures by sellers of credit derivatives, including
credit derivatives embedded in a hybrid instrument. FIN 45 was amended to require an additional disclosure about the current status of the payment/performance risk of a guarantee. The FSP
clarifies the FASB's intent that the disclosures required by SFAS No. 161 should be provided for any reporting period (annual or quarterly interim) beginning after November 15, 2008. The
provisions of this FASB staff position that amend SFAS No. 133 and FIN 45 are effective for reporting periods ending after November 15, 2008, and the provisions that clarify the
effective date SFAS No. 161 are effective upon the adoption of that statement; therefore, the disclosure requirements, which have no impact to the Company's results of operations or financial
position, were adopted at December 31, 2008.   

    FSP No. FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in
Variable Interest Entities ("FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8")     

          In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 140-4 and FIN 46(R)-8, which amends SFAS No. 140
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities" ("SFAS No. 140"), to require additional disclosures about transfers of financial assets and
FIN 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46"), to require additional disclosures about variable interest entities for both public enterprises and sponsors that have a
variable interest in a variable interest entity. The disclosures required are intended to provide greater transparency to financial statement users about a transferor's continuing involvement with
transferred financial assets and an enterprise's involvement with variable interest entities and qualifying special purpose entities. The provisions of this FASB staff position are effective for
reporting periods ending after November 15, 2008; therefore, the disclosure requirements, which have no impact to the Company's results of operations or financial position, were adopted at
December 31, 2008.   

  162  

FSP No. EITF 99-20-1, Amendments to the Impairment Guidance of EITF Issue No. 99-20 ("FSP
EITF 99-20-1")     

          In January 2009, the FASB issued FSP EITF 99-20-1, which amends FASB Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF")
No. 99-20 "Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interest and Beneficial Interests That Continue to Be Held by a Transferor or in Securitized
Financial Assets," ("EITF 99-20"), to align the impairment guidance in EITF 99-20 with the impairment guidance and related implementation guidance in SFAS
No. 115 "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities". The provisions of this FASB staff position are effective for reporting periods ending after December 15, 2008.
The adoption of FSP EITF 99-20-1 did not have a material effect on the results of operations or financial position of the Company.   

    Pending accounting standards     

    SFAS No. 141(R), Business Combinations ("SFAS No. 141R")     

          In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R which replaces SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" ("SFAS
No. 141"). Among other things, SFAS No. 141R broadens the scope of SFAS No. 141 to include all transactions where an acquirer obtains control of one or more other businesses;
retains the guidance to recognize intangible assets separately from goodwill; requires, with limited exceptions, that all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including certain of those that arise
from contractual contingencies, be measured at their acquisition date fair values; requires most acquisition and restructuring-related costs to be expensed as incurred; requires that step
acquisitions, once control is acquired, be recorded at the full amounts of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree; and replaces the
reduction of asset values and recognition of negative goodwill with a requirement to recognize a gain in earnings. The provisions of SFAS No. 141R are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008 and are to be applied prospectively only. Early adoption is not permitted. The Company will apply the provisions of SFAS No. 141R as required when effective.   

SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 ("SFAS No. 160")     

          In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 which clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is that portion of
the subsidiary's equity that is attributable to owners of the subsidiary other than its parent or parent's affiliates. Noncontrolling interests are required to be reported as equity in the
consolidated financial statements and as such net income will include amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest with disclosure of the amounts attributable to each on the
face of the Consolidated Statements of Operations. SFAS No. 160 requires that all changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary when control of the subsidiary is retained, be
accounted for as equity transactions. In contrast, when control over a subsidiary is relinquished and the subsidiary is deconsolidated, SFAS No. 160 requires a parent to recognize a gain or
loss in net income as well as provide certain associated expanded disclosures. SFAS No. 160 is effective as of the beginning of a reporting entity's first fiscal year beginning after
December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. SFAS No. 160 requires prospective application as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which the standard is initially applied, except
for the presentation and disclosure requirements which are to be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 is not expected to have a material effect on the
Company's results of operations or financial position.   

    SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 ("SFAS No. 161")     

          In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, which amends and expands the disclosure requirements for derivatives currently
accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 133. The new disclosures are designed to enhance the understanding of how and why an entity uses derivative instruments and
how derivative instruments affect an entity's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The standard requires, on a quarterly basis, quantitative disclosures about the potential cash
outflows associated with the triggering of credit-related contingent features, if any; tabular disclosures about the classification and fair value amounts of derivative instruments reported in the
statement of financial position; disclosure of the location and amount of gains and losses on derivative instruments reported in the statement of operations; and qualitative information about how and
why an entity uses derivative instruments and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect the entity's financial statements. SFAS No. 161 is effective for fiscal periods
beginning after November 15, 2008, and is to be applied on a prospective basis only. SFAS No. 161 affects disclosures and therefore implementation will not impact the Company's results
of operations or financial position.   

  163  

FSP No. FAS 132(R)-1, Employers' Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets ("FSP FAS 132(R)-1")     

          In January 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1 which amends SFAS No. 132(R) "Employers' Disclosures about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits" to provide guidance on an employer's disclosures about plan assets of a defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. Since plan assets measured at
fair value are reported net of benefit obligations in an employer's statements of financial position, the disclosures are intended to increase transparency surrounding the types of assets and
associated risks in the benefit plans. FSP FAS 132(R)-1 requires companies to disclose information about how investment allocation decisions are made in the plans, the fair value of
each major category of plan assets at each annual reporting date for each plan separately, information that would enable users to assess the assumptions and valuation techniques used in the
development of the fair value measurements at the reporting date, and information that provides an understanding of significant concentrations of risk in plan assets. FSP
FAS 132(R)-1 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. The disclosures are not required for earlier periods that are presented for comparative purposes
and earlier application is permitted. FSP FAS 132(R)-1 affects disclosures and therefore implementation will not impact the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

   3.     Dispositions     

    Variable annuity business     

          On June 1, 2006, in accordance with the terms of the definitive Master Transaction Agreement and related agreements
(collectively the "Agreement") the Company and its subsidiaries, ALIC and Allstate Life Insurance Company of New York ("ALNY"), completed the disposal through reinsurance of substantially all of
Allstate Financial's variable annuity business to Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiary, The Prudential Insurance Company of America (collectively "Prudential"). For Allstate, this
disposal achieved the economic benefit of transferring to Prudential the future rights and obligations associated with this business.   

          The
disposal was effected through reinsurance agreements (the "Reinsurance Agreements") which include both coinsurance and modified coinsurance provisions. Coinsurance and modified
coinsurance provisions are commonly used in the reinsurance of variable annuities because variable annuities generally include both separate account and general account liabilities. When
contractholders make a variable annuity deposit, they must choose how to allocate their account balances between a selection of variable-return mutual funds that must be held in a separate account and
fixed-return funds held in the Company's general account. In addition, variable annuity contracts include various benefit guarantees that are general account obligations of the Company. The
Reinsurance Agreements do not extinguish the Company's primary liability under the variable annuity contracts.   

          Variable
annuity balances invested in variable-return mutual funds are held in separate accounts, which are legally segregated assets and available only to settle separate account
contract obligations. Because the separate account assets must remain with the Company under insurance regulations, modified coinsurance is typically used when parties wish to transfer future economic
benefits of such business. Under the modified coinsurance provisions, the separate account assets remain on the Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, but the related results of
operations are fully reinsured and presented net of reinsurance on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

          The
coinsurance provisions of the Reinsurance Agreements were used to transfer the future rights and obligations related to fixed-return fund options and benefit guarantees.
$1.37 billion of assets supporting general account liabilities have been transferred to Prudential, net of consideration, under the coinsurance reinsurance provisions as of the transaction
closing date. General account liabilities of $1.57 billion and $1.26 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 respectively, however, remain on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position with a corresponding reinsurance recoverable.   

          For
purposes of presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, the Company treated the reinsurance of substantially all the variable annuity business of ALIC and ALNY to
Prudential as a disposition of operations, consistent with the substance of the transaction which was the disposition of a block of business accomplished through reinsurance. Accordingly, the net
consideration transferred to Prudential of $744 million (computed as $1.37 billion of general account insurance liabilities transferred to Prudential on the closing date less
consideration of $628 million), the cost of hedging the ceding commission received from Prudential of $69 million, pre-tax, and the costs of executing the transaction of
$13 million, pre-tax, were classified as a disposition of operations in the cash flows from investing activities section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   

          Under
the Agreement, the Company, ALIC and ALNY have indemnified Prudential for certain pre-closing contingent liabilities (including extra-contractual liabilities of ALIC
and ALNY and liabilities specifically excluded from the transaction) that ALIC and ALNY have agreed to retain. In addition, the Company, ALIC and ALNY will   

  164  

each
indemnify Prudential for certain post-closing liabilities that may arise from the acts of ALIC, ALNY and their agents, including in connection with ALIC's and ALNY's provision of
transition services. The Reinsurance Agreements contain no limits or indemnifications with regard to insurance risk transfer, and transferred all of the future risks and responsibilities for
performance on the underlying variable annuity contracts to Prudential, including those related to benefit guarantees, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 113 "Accounting and
Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts".   

The
terms of the Agreement give Prudential the right to be the exclusive provider of its variable annuity products through the Allstate proprietary agency force for three years and a
non-exclusive preferred provider for the following two years. During a transition period which ended May 2008, ALIC and ALNY continued to issue
new variable annuity contracts, accept additional deposits on existing business from existing contractholders on behalf of Prudential and service the reinsured business while Prudential prepared for
the migration of the business onto its servicing platform.   

          Pursuant
to the Agreement, the final market-adjusted consideration was $628 million. The disposal resulted in a gain of $79 million pre-tax for ALIC, which was
deferred as a result of the disposition being executed through reinsurance. The deferred gain is included as a component of other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position, and is amortized to gain (loss) on disposition of operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations over the life of the reinsured business which is estimated to be
approximately 18 years. For ALNY, the transaction resulted in a loss of $9 million pre-tax. ALNY's reinsurance loss and other amounts related to the disposal of the business,
including the initial costs and final market value settlements of the derivatives acquired by ALIC to economically hedge substantially all of the exposure related to market adjustments between the
effective date of the Agreement and the closing of the transaction, transactional expenses incurred and amortization of ALIC's deferred reinsurance gain, were included as a component of gain (loss) on
disposition of operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and amounted to $5 million, $6 million and $(61) million, after-tax during 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Gain (loss) on disposition of operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations included amortization of ALIC's deferred gain, after-tax, of $5 million,
$5 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. DAC and DSI were reduced by $726 million and $70 million, respectively,
as of the effective date of the transaction for balances related to the variable annuity business subject to the Reinsurance Agreements.   

          The
separate account balances related to the modified coinsurance reinsurance were $7.53 billion and $13.76 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Separate account balances totaling approximately $711 million and $1.17 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related primarily to the variable life business that
is being retained by ALIC and ALNY, and the variable annuity business in three affiliated companies that were not included in the Agreement. In the five-months of 2006, prior to this
disposition, ALIC's and ALNY's variable annuity business generated approximately $127 million in contract charges.   

  165  

4.     Supplemental Cash Flow Information     

          Non-cash investment exchanges and modifications, which primarily reflect refinancings of fixed income securities and mergers completed with equity
securities and limited partnerships, totaled $37 million, $126 million and $105 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          Liabilities
for collateral received in conjunction with the Company's securities lending and other business activities and for funds received from the Company's security repurchase
business activities were $320 million, $3.39 billion and $3.78 billion at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are reported in other liabilities and accrued
expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Obligations to return cash collateral for OTC derivatives were $20 million, $72 million and $360 million at
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses or other investments. Consistent with our adoption of FSP FIN 39-1
in 2008, the $20 million of obligations to return cash collateral as of December 31, 2008 are netted against derivative positions and reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses.
The accompanying cash flows are included in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows along with the activities resulting from management of the proceeds, which
for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

166  

5.     Investments     

    Fair values     

          The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value for fixed income securities are as follows:   

Scheduled maturities     

          The scheduled maturities for fixed income securities are as follows at December 31, 2008:   

Actual
maturities may differ from those scheduled as a result of prepayments by the issuers. Because of the potential for prepayment on mortgage- and asset-backed securities, they are
not categorized by contractual maturity. The commercial mortgage-backed securities are categorized by contractual maturity because they generally are not subject to prepayment risk.   

  167  

Net investment income     

          Net investment income for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Realized capital gains and losses, after-tax     

          Realized capital gains and losses by security type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

168  

Realized capital gains and losses by transaction type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    To
conform to the current year presentation, certain amounts in the prior years have been reclassified.
      (2)    Impairment
write-downs reflect issue specific other-than-temporary declines in fair value, including instances where we could not
reasonably assert that the recovery period would be temporary.
      (3)    Change
in intent write-downs reflects instances where we cannot assert a positive intent to hold until recovery.
      (4)    Subsequent
to October 1, 2008, income from investments in limited partnership interests accounted for utilizing the equity method of accounting is
reported in realized capital gains and losses.    

          Gross gains of $816 million, $261 million and $272 million and gross losses of $583 million, $286 million and
$314 million were realized on sales of fixed income securities during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

    Unrealized net capital gains and losses     

          Unrealized net capital gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:   

(1)    Included
in the fair value of derivative securities are $4 million classified as assets and $(11) million classified as liabilities.
      (2)    The
insurance reserves adjustment represents the amount by which the reserve balance would increase if the net unrealized gains in the applicable product
portfolios were realized and reinvested at current lower interest rates, resulting in a premium deficiency. Although we evaluate premium deficiencies on the combined performance of our life insurance
and immediate annuities with life contingencies, the adjustment primarily relates to structured settlement annuities with life contingencies, in addition to annuity buy-outs and certain
payout annuities with life contingencies.
      (3)    The
DAC and DSI adjustment represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains or losses in
the respective product portfolios were realized.    
  169  

(1)    Included
in the fair value of derivative securities are $(9) million classified as assets and $24 million classified as liabilities.    

    Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses     

          The change in unrealized net capital gains and losses for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Portfolio monitoring     

          Inherent in the Company's evaluation of a particular security are assumptions and estimates about the financial condition of the issue
or issuer and its future earnings potential. Some of the factors considered in evaluating whether a decline in fair value is other than temporary are: 1) the Company's ability and intent to
retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; 2) the expected recoverability of principal and interest; 3) the length of time and
extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost for fixed income securities, or cost for equity securities; 4) the financial condition, near-term and
long-term prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant industry conditions and trends, and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; and 5) the specific
reasons that a security is in a significant unrealized loss position, including market conditions which could affect liquidity.   

  170  

The
following table summarizes the gross unrealized losses and fair value of fixed income and equity securities by the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous
unrealized loss position.   

171  

As of December 31, 2008, $2.74 billion of unrealized losses are related to securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20% of cost or amortized cost, the degree
of which suggests that these securities do not pose a high risk of being other-than-temporarily impaired. Of the $2.74 billion, $2.52 billion are related to
unrealized losses on investment grade fixed income securities. Investment grade is defined as a security having a rating from the NAIC of 1 or 2; a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody's, a rating
of AAA, AA, A or BBB from Standard   Poor's ("S P"), Fitch or Dominion, or aaa, aa, a or bbb from A.M. Best; or a comparable internal rating if an externally provided rating is not
available. Unrealized losses on investment grade securities are principally related to rising interest rates or changes in credit spreads since the securities were acquired.   

          As
of December 31, 2008, the remaining $8.74 billion of unrealized losses are related to securities in unrealized loss positions greater than or equal to 20% of cost or
amortized cost. Of the $8.74 billion, $1.12 billion are related to below investment grade fixed income securities and $370 million are related to equity securities. Of these
amounts, $4 million of the equity securities and $21 million of the below investment grade fixed income securities had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of twelve or more
consecutive months as of December 31, 2008. Unrealized losses on below investment grade securities are principally related to rising interest rates or changes in credit spreads. Unrealized
losses on equity securities are primarily related to equity market fluctuations. The Company expects eventual recovery of these securities. Every security was included in our portfolio monitoring
process.   

          The
securities comprising the $8.74 billion of unrealized losses were evaluated based on factors such as the financial condition and near-term and
long-term prospects of the issuer and were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations, such as recent financings or bank loans, cash flows from operations,
collateral or the position of a subsidiary with respect to its parent's bankruptcy.   

          Unrealized
losses on mortgage-backed, asset-backed and commercial mortgage-backed holdings were evaluated based on credit ratings, as well as the performance of the underlying collateral
relative to the securities' positions in the securities' respective capital structure. The unrealized losses on municipal bonds and asset-backed securities that had credit enhancements from bond
insurers were evaluated on the quality of the underlying security. These investments were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations.   

          As
of December 31, 2008, the Company had the intent and ability to hold the fixed income and equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of time sufficient for them to
recover.   

    Limited partnership impairment     

          As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, equity-method limited partnership interests totaled $1.56 billion and
$1.32 billion, respectively. The Company recognizes a loss in value for equity-method investments when evidence demonstrates that it is other-than-temporarily impaired.
Evidence of a loss in value that is other than temporary may include the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment or the inability of the investee to sustain an earnings
capacity that would justify the carrying amount of the investment. In 2008 and 2007, the Company had write-downs of $29 million and $18 million, respectively, related to equity-method
limited partnership interests. No write-downs were recognized in 2006.   

          As
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying value for cost-method limited partnership interests was $1.23 billion and $1.19 billion, respectively,
which primarily included limited partnership interests in fund investments. The fair value for cost-method investments is estimated to be equivalent to the reported net asset value of the
underlying funds. To determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, the Company evaluates whether an impairment indicator has occurred in the period that may have a significant adverse
effect on the carrying value of the investment. Impairment indicators may include: actual recent cash flows received being significantly less than expected cash flows; reduced valuations based on
financing completed at a lower value; completed sale of a material underlying investment at a price significantly lower than expected; or any other recent adverse events since the last financial
statements received that might affect the fair value of the investee's capital. Additionally, the Company uses a screening process to identify those investments whose net asset value is below
established thresholds for certain periods of time, and investments that are performing below expectations for consideration for inclusion on its watch-list. In 2008, 2007 and 2006, the
Company had write-downs of $83 million, $6 million and $17 million, respectively, related to cost method investments that were other-than-temporarily
impaired.   

    Mortgage loan impairment     

          A mortgage loan is impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual
terms of the loan agreement.   

  172  

The
net carrying value of impaired loans at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $163 million and $2 million, respectively. Valuation allowances of $4 million were
held at December 31, 2008 reflecting a charge to operations related to impaired mortgage loans. No valuation allowances were held at December 31, 2007 because the fair value of the
collateral was greater than the recorded investment in the loans, and no valuation allowances were charged to operations during the years 2007 or 2006. Realized capital losses due to changes in intent
to hold mortgage loans to maturity totaled $74 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          Interest
income for impaired loans is recognized on an accrual basis if payments are expected to continue to be received; otherwise cash basis is used. The Company recognized interest
income on impaired loans of $6 million, $0.2 million and $0.4 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The average balance of impaired loans was $44 million,
$3 million and $5 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

Investment concentration for municipal bond and commercial mortgage portfolios     

          The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of municipal bonds. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of
municipal bond issuers represented in the Company's portfolio. No other state represents more than 5% of the portfolio at December 31.   

The
Company's mortgage loans are collateralized by a variety of commercial real estate property types located throughout the United States. Substantially all of the commercial mortgage
loans are non-recourse to the borrower. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of commercial real estate represented in the Company's mortgage portfolio. No other
state represented more than 5% of the portfolio at December 31.   

The
types of properties collateralizing the commercial mortgage loans at December 31 are as follows:   

The
contractual maturities of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008 for loans that were not in foreclosure are as follows:   

173  

In
2008, $446 million of commercial mortgage loans were contractually due. Of these, 77% were paid as due, 2% were refinanced at prevailing market terms and 20% were extended
generally for less than one year. 1% was foreclosed or in the process of foreclosure, and none were in the process of refinancing or restructuring discussions.   

Concentration of credit risk     

          At December 31, 2008, the Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer and its affiliates greater
than 10% of the Company's shareholders' equity.   

    Securities loaned     

          The Company's business activities include securities lending programs with third parties, mostly large banks. At December 31,
2008 and 2007, fixed income and equity securities with a carrying value of $307 million and $3.29 billion, respectively, were on loan under these agreements. In return, the Company
receives cash that it invests and includes in short-term investments and fixed income securities, with an offsetting liability recorded in other liabilities and accrued expenses to account
for the Company's obligation to return the collateral. Interest income on collateral, net of fees, was $48 million, $19 million and $10 million, for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

    Other investment information     

          Included in fixed income securities are below investment grade assets totaling $3.28 billion and $4.63 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          At
December 31, 2008, fixed income securities with a carrying value of $298 million were on deposit with regulatory authorities as required by law.   

          At
December 31, 2008, the carrying value of fixed income securities that were non-income producing was $18 million. No other investments were
non-income producing at December 31, 2008.   

  174  

6.     Financial Instruments     

          In the normal course of business, the Company invests in various financial assets, incurs various financial liabilities and enters into agreements involving
derivative financial instruments and other off-balance-sheet financial instruments.   

          The
following table summarizes the Company's financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of
December 31, 2008:   

(1)    In
accordance with FSP FIN 39-1, the Company nets all fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and fair value amounts
recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral executed with the same counterparty under a master netting agreement. At December 31, 2008, the
right to reclaim cash collateral was offset by securities held, and the obligation to return collateral was $20 million.    

As required by SFAS No. 157, when the inputs used to measure fair value fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the level within
which the fair value measurement is categorized is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Thus, a Level 3 fair value measurement may
include inputs that are observable (Level 1 or Level 2) and unobservable (Level 3). Gains and losses for such assets and liabilities categorized within Level 3 may include
changes in fair value that are attributable to both observable inputs (Level 1 and Level 2) and unobservable inputs (Level 3). Net transfers in and/or out of Level 3 are
reported as having occurred at the beginning of the quarter the transfer occurred; therefore, for all transfers into Level 3, all realized and unrealized gains and losses in the quarter of
transfer are reflected in the table below. Further, it should be noted that the following table does not take into consideration the effect of offsetting Level 1 and Level 2 financial
instruments entered into that economically hedge certain exposures to the Level 3 positions.   

  175  

The
following table provides a summary of changes in fair value during the year ended December 31, 2008 of Level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities held at fair
value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2008.   

(1)    The
effect to net income of financial assets and financial liabilities totals $(2.79) billion and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Operations as follows: $(2.65) billion in realized capital gains and losses; $134 million in net investment income; $(6) million in interest credited to contractholder funds; and
$(270) million in life and annuity contract benefits.
      (2)    Comprises
$13 million of financial assets and $(114) million of financial liabilities.
      (3)    Comprises
$17.91 billion of investments and $(114) million of free-standing derivatives included in financial liabilities.
      (4)    The
amounts represent gains and losses included in net income for the period of time that the financial asset or financial liability was determined to be in
Level 3. These gains and losses total $(1.98) billion and are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows: $(1.81) billion in realized capital gains and
losses; $103 million in net investment income; $(1) million in interest credited to contractholder funds; and $(270) million in life and annuity contract benefits.    
  176  

Presented below are the fair value estimates of financial instruments including those reported at fair value and discussed above and those reported using other methods for which a
description of the method to determine fair value appears below the following tables.   

    Financial assets     

The fair value of mortgage loans is based on discounted contractual cash flows. Risk adjusted discount rates are selected using current rates at
which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar characteristics, using similar types of properties as collateral. The fair value of limited partnership interests accounted for on the cost
basis is determined using reported net asset values of the underlying funds. The fair value of bank loans, which are reported in other investments on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position,
are valued based on broker quotes from brokers familiar with the loans.   

    Financial liabilities     

Beginning in 2008, the fair value of contractholder funds on investment contracts is based on the terms of the underlying contracts utilizing
prevailing market rates for similar contracts adjusted for credit risk. Deferred annuities included in contractholder funds are valued using discounted cash flow models which incorporate market value
margins, which are based on the cost of holding economic capital, and the Company's own credit risk. Immediate annuities without life contingencies and fixed rate funding agreements are valued at the
present value of future benefits using market implied interest rates which include the Company's own credit risk. In 2007, the fair value of investment contracts was based on the terms of the
underlying contracts. Fixed annuities were valued at the account balance less surrender charges. Immediate annuities without life contingencies and fixed rate funding agreements were valued at the
present value of future benefits using current interest rates. The fair value of variable rate funding agreements approximated the carrying value. Market value adjusted annuities' fair value was
estimated to be the market adjusted surrender value. Equity-indexed annuity contracts' fair value approximated the carrying value since the embedded equity options are carried at fair value.   

          The
fair value of long-term debt is based on market observable data or, in certain cases, is determined using discounted cash flow calculations based on current interest
rates for instruments with comparable terms and considers the Company's own credit risk. The liability for collateral is valued at carrying value due to its short-term nature.   

    Derivative financial instruments     

          The Company primarily uses derivatives for risk reduction and asset replication. In addition, the Company has derivatives embedded in
financial instruments, which are required to be separated and accounted for as derivative instruments. With the exception of derivatives used for asset replication and embedded derivatives which are
required to be separated, all of the Company's derivatives are evaluated for their ongoing effectiveness as either accounting or non-hedge derivative financial instruments on at least a
quarterly basis (see Note 2). The Company   

  177  

does
not use derivatives for trading purposes. Non-hedge accounting is used for "portfolio" level hedging strategies where the terms of the individual hedged items do not meet the strict
homogeneity requirements prescribed in SFAS No. 133 to permit the application of SFAS No. 133's hedge accounting model. The principal benefit of a "portfolio" level strategy is in its
cost savings through its ability to use fewer derivatives with larger notional amounts.   

The
Company uses derivatives to partially mitigate potential adverse impacts from future increases in risk-free interest rates, negative equity market valuations and
increases in credit spreads. The
Property-Liability portfolio uses interest rate swaption contracts and exchange traded options on Treasury futures to offset potential declining fixed income market values resulting from potential
rising interest rates. The Company also uses interest rate swaps to mitigate municipal bond interest rate risk within the Property-Liability municipal bond portfolio. Exchange traded equity put
options are utilized to protect the Property-Liability equity portfolio from significant equity market valuation declines below a targeted level. OTC collars, comprised of purchased puts and written
calls whereby the Company gives up returns beyond a certain level, are also used to complement the equity portfolio protection and credit default swaps are used to mitigate the credit spread risk
within the Allstate Financial and Property-Liability fixed income portfolios.   

          Asset-liability
management is a risk management strategy that is principally employed by Allstate Financial to align the respective interest-rate sensitivities of its assets
and liabilities. Depending upon the attributes of the assets acquired and liabilities issued, derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and floors are acquired to change the interest
rate characteristics of existing assets and liabilities to ensure a properly matched relationship is maintained within specified ranges and to reduce exposure to rising or falling interest rates.
Allstate Financial uses financial futures to hedge anticipated asset purchases and liability issuances and financial futures and options for hedging the Company's equity exposure contained in equity
indexed annuity product contracts that offer equity returns to contractholders. In addition, Allstate Financial also uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk inherent in funding agreements
and foreign currency swaps primarily to reduce the foreign currency risk associated with issuing foreign currency denominated funding agreements.   

          Asset
replication refers to the "synthetic" creation of an asset through the use of a credit derivative and a high quality cash instrument to replicate fixed income securities that are
either unavailable in the cash bond market or more economical to acquire in synthetic form. The Company replicates fixed income securities using a combination of a credit default swap and one or more
highly rated fixed income securities to synthetically replicate the economic characteristics of one or more cash market securities.   

          Portfolio
duration management is a risk management strategy that is principally employed by Property-Liability wherein, depending on the current portfolio duration relative to a
designated target and the expectations of future interest rate movements, the Company uses financial futures and interest rate swaps to change the duration of the portfolio to mitigate the exposure
that interest rates would otherwise have on the market value of its fixed income securities.   

Property-Liability
uses options (including swaptions) to hedge the decline in fixed income market values caused by rising interest rates, futures to hedge the market risk related to
deferred compensation liabilities, equity index futures to lock-in equity gains and forward contracts to hedge foreign currency risk. Property-Liability enters into commodity-based
investments through the use of excess return swaps whose return is tied to a commodity-based index. The Company also uses commodity futures to periodically rebalance its exposure under
commodity-indexed excess return swaps as they are very liquid and highly correlated with the commodity-based index.   

          Allstate
Financial and Property-Liability have derivatives that are embedded in non-derivative "host" contracts. The Company's primary embedded derivatives are conversion
options in fixed income securities, which provide the Company with the right to convert the instrument into a predetermined number of shares of common stock; equity options in annuity product
contracts, which provide equity returns to contractholders; and equity-indexed notes containing equity call options, which provide a coupon payout based upon one or more equity-based indices.   

          Corporate
and Other uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate exposure on its debt issuances.   

          The
notional amounts specified in the contracts are used to calculate the exchange of contractual payments under the agreements and are generally not representative of the potential for
gain or loss on these agreements. However, the notional amounts specified in credit default swaps represent the maximum amount of potential loss, assuming no recoveries.   

          Fair
value, which is equal to the carrying value, is the estimated amount that the Company would receive (pay) to terminate the derivative contracts at the reporting date. The fair value
valuation techniques are described in Note 2. For certain exchange traded derivatives, the exchange requires margin deposits as well as daily cash   

  178  

settlements
of margin accounts. As of December 31, 2008, the Company pledged $72 million of securities in the form of margin deposits.   

          Carrying
value amounts include the fair value of the derivatives, including the embedded derivatives, and exclude the accrued periodic settlements which are short-term in
nature and are reported in accrued investment income or other invested assets. The carrying value amounts for freestanding derivatives have been further adjusted for the effects, if any, of legally
enforceable master netting agreements.   

          The
net impact to pre-tax income includes valuation and settlements of derivatives which are reported in net income as described in Note 2. For those derivatives which
qualify for fair value hedge accounting, it also includes the changes in the fair value of the hedged risk, and therefore reflects any hedging ineffectiveness. For cash flow hedges, gains and losses
amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income are included. For embedded derivatives in convertibles and equity-indexed notes subject to bifurcation, accretion income related to the host
instrument has also been included.   

          Derivative
instruments are recorded at fair value and presented in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, as follows:   

For cash flow hedges, unrealized net pre-tax losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income were $11 million and
$(33) million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The net pre-tax changes in accumulated other comprehensive income due to cash flow hedges were $44 million,
$(26) million and $(11) million in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Amortization of net gains from accumulated other comprehensive income related to cash flow hedges is expected to be
$2 million in 2009.   

  179  

The
following table summarizes the notional amount, fair value and carrying value of the Company's derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2008.   

180  

The following table summarizes the notional amount, fair value and carrying value of the Company's derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2007.   

The
Company manages its exposure to credit risk by utilizing highly rated counterparties, establishing risk control limits, executing legally enforceable master netting agreements and
obtaining collateral where appropriate. The Company uses master netting agreements for over-the-counter derivative transactions, including interest rate swap, foreign currency
swap, interest rate cap, interest rate floor, credit default swap, forward and certain option agreements. These agreements permit either party to net payments due for transactions covered by the
agreements. Under the provisions of the agreements, collateral is either pledged or obtained when certain predetermined exposure limits are exceeded. As of December 31, 2008, counterparties
pledged $20 million in cash collateral to the Company, and the Company pledged $16 million in cash and $544 million in securities to counterparties. The Company has not incurred
any losses on derivative financial instruments due to counterparty nonperformance. Other derivatives including futures and certain option contracts are traded on organized exchanges, which require
margin deposits and guarantee the execution of trades, thereby mitigating any potential credit risk associated with transactions executed on organized exchanges.   

          Credit
exposure represents the Company's potential loss if all of the counterparties concurrently fail to perform under the contractual terms of the contracts and all collateral, if any,
becomes worthless. This exposure is measured by the fair value of freestanding derivative contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date reduced by the effect, if any, of legally
enforceable master netting agreements.   

  181  

The
following table summarizes the counterparty credit exposure by counterparty credit rating at December 31, as it relates to interest rate swap, foreign currency swap, interest
rate cap, interest rate floor, credit default swap and certain option agreements.   

(1)    Rating
is the lower of S P's or Moody's ratings.
      (2)    Only
over-the-counter derivatives with a net positive fair value are included for each counterparty.    

          Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in market rates and prices. Market risk exists for all of the
derivative financial instruments the Company currently holds, as these instruments may become less valuable due to adverse changes in market conditions. To limit this risk, the Company's senior
management has established risk control limits. In addition, changes in fair value of the derivative financial instruments that the Company uses for risk management purposes are generally offset by
the change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged risk component of the related assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions.   

    Credit derivatives selling protection     

          Credit default swaps ("CDS") are utilized for selling credit protection against a specified credit event. A credit default swap is a
derivative instrument, representing an agreement between two parties to exchange the credit risk of a specified entity (or a group of entities), or an index based on the credit risk of a group of
entities (all commonly referred to as the "reference entity" or a portfolio of "reference entities"), for a periodic premium. In selling protection, CDS are used to replicate fixed income securities
and to complement the cash market when credit exposure to certain issuers is not available or when the derivative alternative is less expensive than the cash market alternative. Credit risk includes
both default risk and market value exposure due to spread widening. CDS typically have a five-year term.   

  182  

The
following table shows the CDS notional amounts by credit rating and fair value of protection sold as of December 31, 2008:   

In
selling protection with CDS, the Company sells credit protection on an identified single name, a basket of names in a first-to-default ("FTD") structure or
credit derivative index ("CDX") that is generally investment grade, and in return receives periodic premiums through expiration or termination of the agreement. With single name CDS, this premium or
credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the referenced entity's public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates, at the time the agreement is executed. With
FTD baskets, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of named credits, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the
basket and the correlation between the names. CDX index is utilized to take a position on multiple (generally 125) reference entities. Credit events are typically defined as bankruptcy, failure to
pay, or restructuring, depending on the nature of the reference credit. If a credit event occurs, the Company settles with the counterparty, either through physical settlement or cash settlement. In a
physical settlement, a reference asset is delivered by the buyer of protection to the Company, in exchange for cash payment at par, while in a cash settlement, the Company pays the difference between
par and the prescribed value of the reference asset. When a credit event occurs in a single name or FTD basket (for FTD, the first credit event occurring for any one name in the basket), the contract
terminates at time of settlement. For CDX index, the reference entity's name incurring the credit event is removed from the index while the contract continues until expiration. The maximum payout on a
CDS is the contract notional amount. A physical settlement may afford the Company with recovery rights as the new owner of the asset.   

          The
Company monitors risk associated with credit derivatives through individual name credit limits at both a credit derivative and a combined cash instrument/credit derivative level. The
ratings of individual names for which protection has been sold are also monitored.   

  183  

Off-balance-sheet financial instruments and unconsolidated investments in VIEs     

          The contractual amounts and fair values of off-balance-sheet financial instruments at December 31 are as follows:   

In
the preceding table, the contractual amounts represent the amount at risk if the contract is fully drawn upon, the counterparty defaults and the value of any underlying security
becomes worthless. Unless noted otherwise, the Company does not require collateral or other security to support off-balance-sheet financial instruments with credit risk.   

          Commitments
to invest generally represent commitments to acquire financial interests or instruments. The Company enters into these agreements to allow for additional participation in
certain limited partnership investments. Because the equity investments in the limited partnerships are not actively traded, it is not practical to estimate the fair value of these commitments.   

Commitments
to extend mortgage loans are agreements to lend to a borrower provided there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. The Company enters into these
agreements to commit to future loan fundings at a predetermined interest rate. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. Commitments to extend mortgage loans,
which are secured by the underlying properties, are valued based on estimates of fees charged by other institutions to make similar commitments to similar borrowers.   

          Private
placement commitments represent conditional commitments to purchase private placement debt and equity securities at a specified future date. The Company regularly enters into
these agreements in the normal course of business. The fair value of these commitments generally cannot be estimated on the date the commitment is made as the terms and conditions of the underlying
private placement securities are not yet final.   

          The
Company established two VIEs that are not consolidated because the Company is not the primary beneficiary. The VIEs hold investments on behalf of unrelated third party investors that
are managed by Allstate Investment Management Company, a subsidiary of the Company. Their assets primarily consist of investment securities and cash, and the liabilities consist primarily of
long-term debt. The Company's maximum loss exposure related to the VIEs is the amortized cost of its investment. Information on each VIE as of December 31, 2008 is listed in the
following table.   

184  

7.     Reserve for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense     

          As described in Note 2, the Company establishes reserves for claims and claims expense ("loss") on reported and unreported claims of insured losses. The
Company's reserving process takes into account known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including the Company's experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends
involving claim payment patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, law changes, court decisions, changes to regulatory requirements and
economic conditions. In the normal course of business, the Company may also supplement its claims processes by utilizing third party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, other professionals
and information sources to assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process.   

          Because
reserves are estimates of the unpaid portions of losses that have occurred, including incurred but not reported ("IBNR") losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves,
including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best
estimates. The highest degree of uncertainty is associated with reserves for losses incurred in the current reporting period as it contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been
reported or settled. The Company regularly updates its reserve estimates as new information becomes available and as events unfold that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior
year reserve estimates, which may be material, are reported in property-liability insurance claims and claims expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period such changes are
determined.   

          Activity
in the reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is summarized as follows:   

Incurred
claims and claims expense represents the sum of paid losses and reserve changes in the calendar year. This expense includes losses from catastrophes of $3.34 billion,
$1.41 billion and $810 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, net of reinsurance and other recoveries (see Note 9). In 2008, losses from catastrophes included
$1.31 billion, net of recoveries, related to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. These estimates include net losses in personal lines auto and property policies and net losses on commercial policies.
Included in 2008 and 2006 losses from catastrophes are accruals for assessments from Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") and Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in the state of Florida
("FL Citizens"), respectively (see Note 13).   

          Catastrophes
are an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance business that have contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, material year-to-year
fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial position.   

          The
Company calculates and records a single best reserve estimate for losses from catastrophes, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial principles. As a result, management
believes that no other estimate is better than the recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties involved, including the factors described above, the ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from
recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimates. Accordingly, management believes that it is not practical to develop a meaningful range for any such changes in losses incurred.   

  185  

During
2008, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $27 million offset by increases in homeowners
reserves of $124 million due to catastrophe loss reestimates, and increases in other reserves of $55 million. The $27 million favorable decreases in auto reserves and
$55 million unfavorable increases in other reserves includes $45 million of IBNR losses reclassified from auto reserves to other reserves to be consistent with the recording of excess
liability policy premiums and losses. Incurred claims and claims expense includes unfavorable catastrophe loss reestimates of $125 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries, primarily
attributable to increased claim loss and expense reserves for litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane Katrina.   

          During
2007, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $311 million due to claim severity development
that was better than expected, offset by increases in homeowners reserves of $115 million due to catastrophe loss reestimates, and increases in environmental reserves of $63 million.
Incurred claims and claims expense includes unfavorable catastrophe loss reestimates of $127 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries, primarily attributable to increased claim loss and
expense reserves for 2005 catastrophe events.   

          During
2006, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $737 million due to claim severity development
that was better than expected, and late reported loss development that was better than expected due to lower frequency trends in recent years, decreases in homeowners reserves of $244 million
due to catastrophe loss reestimates, claim severity development and late reported loss development that were better than expected, and decreases in other reserves of $122 million due to
catastrophe loss reestimates and commercial lines loss development that was better than expected, offset by increases in asbestos reserves of $86 million. Claims and claims expense during 2006
includes favorable catastrophe loss reestimates of $223 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries, including a $63 million reduction in the Company's accrual for an assessment
from FL Citizens and $62 million due to recoupments of prior year assessments from FL Citizens and Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation ("LA Citizens").   

Management
believes that the reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense, net of recoverables, is appropriately established in the aggregate and adequate to cover the
ultimate net cost of reported and unreported claims arising from losses which had occurred by that date based on available facts, technology, laws and regulations.   

          For
further discussion of assessments from FL Citizens and LA Citizens, and asbestos and environmental reserves, see Note 13.   

8.     Reserve for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits and Contractholder Funds     

          At December 31, the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits consists of the following:   

186  

The
following table highlights the key assumptions generally used in calculating the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits:   

Product    
     
   Mortality    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Estimation method    

Structured settlement annuities  
     
  U.S. population with projected calendar year improvements; mortality rates adjusted for each impaired life based on reduction in life expectancy  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 2.9% to 11.7%  
     
  Present value of contractually specified future benefits  

Other immediate fixed annuities  
     
      1983 group annuity mortality table; 1983 individual annuity mortality table; Annuity 2000 mortality table with internal
modifications  
     
      Interest rate assumptions range from 1.6% to 11.5%  
     
      Present value of expected future benefits based on historical experience  

Traditional life insurance  
     
      Actual company experience plus loading  
     
      Interest rate assumptions range from 4.0% to 11.3%  
     
      Net level premium reserve method using the Company's withdrawal experience rates  

Other:  

Variable annuity guaranteed minimum death benefits (1)   
     
      100% of Annuity 2000 mortality table  
     
      Interest rate assumptions range from 5.3% to 5.9%  
     
      Projected benefit ratio applied to cumulative assessments  

Accident and health  
     
      Actual company experience plus loading  

Unearned premium; additional contract reserves for traditional life insurance  

(1)    In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential (see Note 3).    

          To the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a premium deficiency had those gains actually been realized, a
premium deficiency reserve is recorded for certain immediate annuities with life contingencies. A liability of $378 million and $1.06 billion is included in the reserve for
life-contingent contract benefits with respect to this deficiency as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The offset to this liability is recorded as a reduction of the
unrealized net capital gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income.   

          At
December 31, contractholder funds consist of the following:   

187  

The
following table highlights the key contract provisions relating to contractholder funds:   

Product    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Withdrawal/surrender charges    

Interest-sensitive life insurance  
     
  Interest rates credited range from 2.0% to 6.0%  
     
  Either a percentage of account balance or dollar amount grading off generally over 20 years  

Fixed annuities  
     
      Interest rates credited range from 1.3% to 11.5% for immediate annuities and 0% to 16% for other fixed annuities (which include
equity-indexed annuities whose returns are indexed to the S P 500)  
     
      Either a declining or a level percentage charge generally over nine years or less. Additionally, approximately 28.4% of fixed
annuities are subject to market value adjustment for discretionary withdrawals  

Funding agreements backing medium-term notes  
     
      Interest rates credited range from 0.5% to 6.5% (excluding currency-swapped medium-term notes)  
     
      Not applicable  

Other investment contracts:  

Variable guaranteed minimum income benefit (1)  and secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance and fixed annuities  
     
  Interest rates used in establishing reserves range from 1.8% to 10.3%  
     
  Withdrawal and surrender charges are based on the terms of the related interest-sensitive life insurance or fixed annuity contract  

Allstate Bank  
     
      Interest rates credited range from 0% to 5.5%  
     
      A percentage of principal balance for time deposits withdrawn prior to maturity  

(1)    In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential (see Note 3).    

          Contractholder funds include funding agreements held by VIEs issuing medium-term notes. The VIEs are Allstate Life
Funding, LLC, Allstate Financial Global Funding, LLC, Allstate Life Global Funding and Allstate Life Global Funding II, and their primary assets are funding agreements used
exclusively to back medium-term note programs.   

          Contractholder
funds activity for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

The Company offered various guarantees to variable annuity contractholders. Liabilities for variable contract guarantees related to death benefits
are included in reserve for life-contingent contract benefits and the liabilities related to the income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits are included in contractholder funds in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. All liabilities for variable contract guarantees are reported on a gross basis on the balance sheet with a corresponding reinsurance recoverable asset
for those contracts subject to reinsurance, including the Prudential Reinsurance Agreements as disclosed in Note 3.   

  188  

Absent any contract provision wherein the Company guarantees either a minimum return or account value upon death, a specified contract anniversary date, partial withdrawal or
annuitization, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts' funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. The account
balances of variable annuities contracts' separate accounts with guarantees included $7.07 billion and $13.32 billion of equity, fixed income and balanced mutual funds and
$730 million and $661 million of money market mutual funds at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          The
table below presents information regarding the Company's variable annuity contracts with guarantees. The Company's variable annuity contracts may offer more than one type of
guarantee in each contract; therefore, the sum of amounts listed exceeds the total account balances of variable annuity contracts' separate accounts with guarantees.   

(1)    Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
      (2)    Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum annuity payments in excess of the current account balance.
      (3)    Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum withdrawal balance (initial deposit) in excess of the current account balance at the balance sheet date.
      (4)    Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance in excess of the current account balance.    

          The liability for death and income benefit guarantees is equal to a benefit ratio multiplied by the cumulative contract charges earned, plus
accrued interest less contract benefit payments. The benefit ratio is calculated as the estimated present value of all expected contract benefits divided by the present value of all expected contract
charges. The establishment of reserves for these guarantees requires the projection of future separate account
fund performance, mortality, persistency and customer benefit utilization rates. These assumptions are periodically reviewed and updated. For guarantees related to death benefits, benefits represent
the current guaranteed minimum death benefit payments in excess of the current account balance. For guarantees related to income benefits, benefits represent the present value of the minimum
guaranteed annuitization benefits in excess of the current account balance.   

          Projected
benefits and contract charges used in determining the liability for certain guarantees are developed using models and stochastic scenarios that are also used in the development
of estimated expected gross profits. Underlying assumptions for the liability related to income benefits include assumed future annuitization elections based on factors such as the extent of benefit
to the potential annuitant, eligibility conditions and the annuitant's attained age. The liability for guarantees is re-evaluated periodically, and adjustments are made to the liability
balance through a charge or credit to life and annuity contract benefits.   

          Guarantees
related to withdrawal and accumulation benefits are considered to be derivative financial instruments; therefore, the liability for these benefits is established based on its
fair value.   

  189  

The
following table summarizes the liabilities for guarantees:   

(1)    Included
in the total liability balance at December 31, 2006 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $89 million, variable annuity
income benefits of $20 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $(7) million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $(1) million and other guarantees of
$53 million.
      (2)    Included
in the total liability balance at December 31, 2007 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $111 million, variable
annuity income benefits of $23 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $(0.4) million and other guarantees of $57 million.
      (3)    Included
in the total liability balance at December 31, 2008 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $67 million, variable annuity
income benefits of $201 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $147 million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $119 million and other guarantees of
$67 million.    
  190  

9.     Reinsurance     

          The effects of reinsurance on property-liability premiums written and earned and life and annuity premiums and contract charges for the years ended
December 31 are as follows:   

Property-Liability     

          The Company purchases reinsurance after evaluating the financial condition of the reinsurer, as well as the terms and price of
coverage. Developments in the insurance and reinsurance industries have fostered a movement to segregate asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities
with dedicated capital. Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions. The Company is unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectability
of reinsurance recoverables in the future.   

    Property-Liability reinsurance recoverable     

          Total amounts recoverable from reinsurers at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $2.35 billion and $2.30 billion,
respectively, including $78 million and $99 million, respectively, related to property-liability losses paid by the Company and billed to reinsurers, and $2.27 billion and
$2.21 billion, respectively, estimated by the Company with respect to ceded unpaid losses (including IBNR), which are not billable until the losses are paid.   

With
the exception of the recoverable balances from the Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association ("MCCA"), Lloyd's of London and other industry pools and facilities, as disclosed below,
the largest reinsurance recoverable balance the Company had outstanding was $81 million and $90 million from Westport Insurance Corporation (formerly Employers' Reinsurance Company) at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. No other amount due or estimated to be due from any single property-liability reinsurer was in excess of $56 million and $60 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, Allstate Texas Lloyd's ("ATL"), a syndicate insurance company, had $66 million and $5 million, respectively, of
reinsurance recoverable on the Texas excess catastrophe loss treaty. In 2008, the recoverable balance was primarily related to losses incurred from Hurricane Ike which occurred in 2008. In 2007, the
recoverable balance was related to losses incurred from Hurricane Rita which occurred in 2005. ATL cedes 100% of its business, net of reinsurance with external parties, to AIC.   

          The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $168 million and $185 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is related to the Company's
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. In 2008, there was $17 million of net recoveries. In 2007, there was $6 million of additions, $10 million of net recoveries and a
reduction of $46 million related to Equitas Limited's improved financial condition. (For further discussion, see the "Asbestos, Environmental and Other" section below.)   

  191  

Industry pools and facilities     

          Reinsurance recoverable on paid and unpaid claims including IBNR at December 31, 2008 and 2007 includes $1.11 billion and
$1.02 billion, respectively, from the MCCA. The MCCA is a mandatory reinsurance mechanism for personal injury protection losses over a retention level that increases each MCCA fiscal year. The
retention levels are $420 thousand per claim and $440 thousand per claim for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2008 and 2009, respectively. The MCCA is funded by assessments from
member companies who, in turn, can recover assessments from policyholders.   

          Ceded
premiums earned under the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF") agreement were $26 million, $45 million and $49 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Ceded losses incurred include $28 million, $22 million and $146 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company has access to reimbursement provided by the
FHCF for 90% of qualifying personal property losses that exceed its current retention of $80 million for the two largest hurricanes and $27 million for other hurricanes, up to a maximum
total of $398 million effective from June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009. Reinsurance recoverables include $36 million and $47 million recoverable from the FHCF for
qualifying property losses at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          Allstate
sells and administers policies as a participant in the National Flood Insurance Program ("NFIP"). The total amounts recoverable at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were
$138 million and $22 million, respectively. Ceded premiums earned include $257 million, $257 million and $232 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Ceded
losses incurred include $344 million, $65 million and $32 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Under the arrangement, the Federal Government is obligated to pay all
claims.   

    Catastrophe reinsurance     

          The Company has the following catastrophe reinsurance treaties in effect:   

an aggregate excess agreement covered by three contracts with different effective dates for Allstate Protection personal
lines auto and property business countrywide, except for Florida. The first contract which is 47.5% placed, covers storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, earthquakes, and fires
following earthquakes, and is effective June 1, 2007 to May 31, 2009. The remaining two contracts are 47.5% placed and cover storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service,
fires following earthquakes, and California wildfires, and are effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2010;     
           a California fires following earthquakes agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe
losses in California, effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2011;     
           multi-year reinsurance treaties that cover Allstate-brand personal property excess catastrophe losses in
Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, New York, and Texas effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2011;     
           a South-East agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses for storms
named or numbered by the National Weather Service in 10 Atlantic and Gulf states and the District of Columbia effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009;     
           a Texas agreement for additional hurricane coverage for Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses in
the state effective June 18, 2008 to June 17, 2011;     
           a Kentucky agreement that provides coverage for Allstate Protection personal property excess catastrophe losses in the
state for earthquakes and fires following earthquakes effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009;     
           a North-East agreement for additional hurricane coverage in the states of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for
Allstate Protection personal property and auto excess catastrophe losses effective June 15, 2007 to June 8, 2010; and     
           Four separate agreements for Allstate Floridian Insurance Company and its subsidiaries ("Allstate Floridian"), for
personal property excess catastrophe losses in Florida that coordinate coverage with our participation in the FHCF, effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009.    

Under
all reinsurance agreements, the Company ceded premiums earned of $679 million and $811 million in the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

Florida     

          During 2006, Allstate Floridian Insurance Company ("AFIC") and Allstate Floridian Indemnity ("AFI") entered into a 100% quota share
reinsurance agreement with Royal Palm Insurance Company ("Royal Palm") on selected personal property policies written in Florida. AFIC and AFI no longer offers coverage on these policies after their   

  192  

contract
terms expire, at which time Royal Palm may offer coverage to these policyholders. Any qualifying recoveries from the FHCF and the catastrophe reinsurance agreements are shared with Royal Palm
under the existing agreement. Subject to this agreement, AFIC and AFI ceded $63 million of unearned premiums in 2006 and the related transfer of cash was recorded in cash flows from operating
activities in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. AFIC and AFI ceded premiums and losses on these policies through their expiration under an indemnity reinsurance agreement totaling
$(16) million, $(25) million and $81 million of premiums written, $(15) million, $35 million and $84 million of premiums earned and $2 million,
$20 million and $16 million of incurred losses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

Asbestos, environmental and other     

          Reinsurance recoverables include $227 million and $240 million from Lloyd's of London at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. Lloyd's of London, through the creation of Equitas Limited, implemented a restructuring plan in 1996 to solidify its capital base and to segregate claims for years prior to 1993.
The recoverable from Equitas Limited syndicates is spread among thousands of Lloyd's of London investors who have unlimited liability. The reinsurance recoverables valuation allowance was reduced by
$46 million in 2007 related to Equitas Limited's improved financial position as a result of its obtaining reinsurance coverage with National Indemnity Company.   

Allstate Financial     

          The Company's Allstate Financial segment reinsures certain of its risks to other insurers primarily under yearly renewable term,
coinsurance, modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld agreements. These agreements result in a passing of the agreed-upon percentage of risk to the reinsurer in exchange
for negotiated reinsurance premium payments. Modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld are similar to coinsurance, except that the cash and investments that support the liability for
contract benefits are not transferred to the assuming company and settlements are made on a net basis between the companies. Allstate Financial cedes 100% of the morbidity risk on substantially all of
its long-term care contracts. Allstate Financial cedes specified percentages of the mortality risk on certain life policies, depending upon the issue date and product, to a pool of
fourteen unaffiliated reinsurers. Beginning in July 2007, for new life insurance contracts, Allstate Financial ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $3 million per life
for contracts issued to individuals age 70 and over, and ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $5 million per life for most other contracts. Also beginning in July
2007, for certain large contracts that meet specific criteria, Allstate Financial's retention limit was increased to $10 million per life. In the period prior to July 2007, but subsequent to
August 1998, Allstate Financial ceded the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $2 million per life, except in 2006 in certain instances when specific criteria were met, it ceded
the mortality risk associated with coverage in excess of $5 million per life. For
business sold prior to October 1998, Allstate Financial ceded mortality risk in excess of specific amounts up to $1 million per individual life.   

          In
addition, Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. Allstate Financial had reinsurance recoverables of
$1.57 billion and $1.26 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, due from Prudential related to the disposal of substantially all of its variable annuity business that
was effected through Reinsurance Agreements (see Note 3). In 2008, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of $238 million, contract benefits of $467 million, interest
credited to contractholder funds of $36 million, and operating costs and expenses of $47 million were ceded to Prudential pursuant to the Reinsurance Agreements. In 2007, life and
annuity premiums and contract charges of $317 million, contract benefits of $59 million, interest credited to contractholder funds of $43 million, and operating costs and expenses
of $72 million were ceded to Prudential pursuant to the Reinsurance Agreements. In 2006, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of $170 million, contract benefits of
$29 million, interest credited to contractholder funds of $35 million, and operating costs and expenses of $64 million were ceded to Prudential pursuant to the Reinsurance
Agreements. In addition, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 Allstate Financial had reinsurance recoverables of $181 million and $166 million, respectively due from subsidiaries of
Citigroup (Triton Insurance and American Health and Life Insurance), and Scottish Re (U.S.) Inc. in connection with the disposition of substantially all of the direct response distribution
business in 2003.   

          As
of December 31, 2008, the gross life insurance in force was $532 billion of which $252 billion was ceded to the unaffiliated reinsurers.   

  193  

Reinsurance recoverables at December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

At
December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 93% and 88%, respectively, of Allstate Financial's reinsurance recoverables are due from companies rated A- or better by
S P.   

   10.  Deferred Policy Acquisition and Sales Inducement Costs     

          Deferred policy acquisition costs for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    The
adoption of SOP 05-1 resulted in a $11 million adjustment to unamortized DAC related to the impact on future estimated gross
profits from the changes in accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer qualify for deferral (see Note 2).
      (2)    In
2006, DAC was reduced related to the disposition through reinsurance agreements of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business
(see Note 3).    

          Net accretion of DAC amortization related to realized capital gains and losses was $515 million, $17 million and $50 million
in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

  194  

As
disclosed in Note 3, DAC and DSI balances were reduced during 2006 related to the disposal through reinsurance agreements of substantially all of the variable annuity business.   

DSI
activity for Allstate Financial, which primarily relates to fixed annuities, for the years ended December 31 was as follows:   

(1)    The
adoption of SOP 05-1 resulted in a $2 million adjustment to unamortized DSI related to the impact on future estimated gross
profits from the changes in accounting for certain costs associated with contract continuations that no longer qualify for deferral (see Note 2).
      (2)    In
2006, DSI was reduced related to the disposition through reinsurance agreements of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business
(see Note 3).    

   11.  Capital Structure     

    Debt outstanding     

          Total debt outstanding at December 31 consisted of the following:   

(1)    Senior
Notes are subject to redemption at the Company's option in whole or in part at any time at the greater of either 100% of the principal amount plus
accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or the discounted sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest and accrued and unpaid interest to the
redemption date.
      (2)    The
Company classifies any borrowings, which have a maturity of twelve months or less at inception as short-term debt.    
  195  

Total debt outstanding by maturity at December 31 consisted of the following:   

The
Allstate Bank received a $10 million long-term advance from the FHLB in April 2008, and another $10 million advance in September 2008. The FHLB advances are
secured with fixed income securities pledged to the FHLB. During 2008, $1 million was repaid on the advances.   

          In
2007, the Company issued $500 million of Series A 6.50% and $500 million of Series B 6.125% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior
Subordinated Debentures (together the "Debentures"). The net proceeds were used for the repurchase of the Company's common stock. The scheduled maturity dates for the Debentures are May 15,
2057 and May 15, 2037 for Series A and Series B, respectively, with a final maturity date of May 15, 2067. The Debentures may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at
any time on or after May 15, 2037 or May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B, respectively, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of
redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part, prior to May 15, 2037 and May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B, respectively, at their principal
amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if greater, a make-whole price.   

          Interest
on the Debentures is payable semi-annually at the stated fixed annual rate to May 15, 2037 and May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B,
respectively, and then payable quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.12% and 1.935% for Series A and Series B, respectively. The Company may elect at one
or more times to defer payment of interest on the Debentures for one or more consecutive interest periods that do not exceed 10 years. Interest compounds during such deferral periods at the
rate in effect for each period. The interest deferral feature obligates the Company in certain circumstances to issue common stock or certain other types of securities if it cannot otherwise raise
sufficient funds to make the required interest payments. The Company has reserved 75 million shares of its authorized and unissued common stock to satisfy this obligation.   

In
connection with the issuance of the Debentures, the Company entered into replacement capital covenants. These covenants are not intended for the benefit of the holders of the
Debentures and may not be enforced by them. Rather, they are for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of the Company's indebtedness, initially the 6.90% Senior Debentures due
2038. Pursuant to these covenants, the Company has agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the Debentures on or before May 15, 2067 and May 15, 2047 for Series A and
Series B, respectively, unless, subject to certain limitations, the Company has received proceeds in specified amounts from the issuance of specified securities. These covenants terminate in
2067 and 2047 for Series A and Series B, respectively, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the Debentures of the particular series due to the
occurrence of an event of default. An event of default, as defined by the supplemental indentures, includes default in the payment of interest or principal and bankruptcy proceedings.   

          The
Company is the primary beneficiary of a consolidated VIE used to acquire up to 38 automotive collision repair stores ("synthetic lease VIE"). In 2006, the Company renewed the
synthetic lease for a five-year term at a floating rate due 2011. The Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position include $40 million and $40 million of property
and equipment, net, and long-term debt as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

To
manage short-term liquidity, Allstate can issue commercial paper, draw on its credit facilities and engage in securities repurchase agreements (see Note 2). The
Company currently maintains a commercial paper program and a credit facility as a potential source of funds. These include a $1.00 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and a commercial
paper program with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion. The facility has an initial term of five years expiring in 2012 with two optional one-year extensions that can be exercised at
the end of any of the remaining four years of the facility upon approval of existing or replacement lenders providing more than two-thirds of the commitments to lend. This facility also
contains an increase provision that would allow up to an additional $500 million of borrowing provided the increased portion could be fully syndicated at a later date among existing or new
lenders. This facility has a financial covenant requiring the Company not to exceed a 37.5% debt to capital resources ratio as defined in the agreement. Although the right to borrow under the facility
is not subject to a minimum rating requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of the Company's senior, unsecured, nonguaranteed
long-term debt. The total amount   

  196  

outstanding
at any point in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot exceed the amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility. No amounts were
outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. The Company had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007. The Company paid
$347 million, $320 million and $322 million of interest on debt in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          During
2006, the Company filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC that expires in May 2009. The registration statement covers an unspecified amount of securities and
can be used to issue debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and securities of subsidiaries.   

Capital stock     

          The Company had 900 million shares of issued common stock of which 536 million shares were outstanding and
364 million shares were held in treasury as of December 31, 2008. In 2008, the Company reacquired 28 million shares at an average cost of $47.64 and reissued one million shares
under equity incentive plans.   

   12.  Company Restructuring     

          The Company undertakes various programs to reduce expenses. These programs generally involve a reduction in staffing levels, and in certain cases, office
closures. Restructuring and related charges include employee termination and relocation benefits, and post-exit rent expenses in connection with these programs, and non-cash
charges resulting from pension benefit payments made to agents in connection with the 1999 reorganization of Allstate's multiple agency programs to a single exclusive agency program and the Company's
2006 voluntary termination offer ("VTO"). The expenses related to these activities are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as restructuring and related charges, and totaled
$23 million, $29 million and $182 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          The
following table illustrates the inception to date changes in the restructuring liability:   

Restructuring
and related charges included $94 million in 2006 related to the Company's VTO and reduction in force. The VTO included severance, which was recorded as a
restructuring liability and fully settled during 2006. The VTO also included one-time termination benefits for accelerated vesting of stock-based incentive compensation, eligibility for
postretirement benefits, and a non-cash pension settlement charge recorded during the third quarter of 2006, which were expensed as incurred. The VTO was offered to most employees located
at the Company's headquarters.   

          At
December 31, 2007, the total liability was $25 million and consisted of $23 million in employee costs and $2 million in exit costs. The payments applied
against the liability for employee costs primarily reflect severance costs, and the payments for exit costs generally consist of post-exit rent expenses and contract termination penalties.   

  197  

13.  Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities     

    Leases     

          The Company leases certain office facilities and computer equipment. Total rent expense for all leases was $294 million,
$304 million and $308 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          Minimum
rental commitments under noncancelable capital and operating leases with an initial or remaining term of more than one year as of December 31, 2008 are as follows:   

In 2006, the Company entered into sale-leaseback transactions to dispose of three buildings and lease back certain portions of the
buildings ranging from 49% to 100% for a period of ten years. The transactions resulted in a pre-tax gain of $12 million of which $4 million was recognized as a gain in 2006
and $8 million was deferred and will be amortized as a reduction to rent expense over the ten-year leaseback period. The Company also entered into another sale-leaseback
transaction in 2006 to dispose of a building and leaseback approximately 23% of the building for a period of three years. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $8 million
of which $7 million was recognized as a gain in 2006 and the remaining $1 million was deferred and will be amortized as a reduction to rent expense over the three-year
leaseback period. The Company has limited involvement other than being a tenant, and the leases are accounted for as operating leases.   

    State facility assessments     

          The Company is required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations in various
states that provide insurance coverage to individuals or entities that
otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because of the Company's participation, it may be exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities and/or to
assessments from these facilities.   

          Allstate
Floridian is subject to assessments from FL Citizens, which was initially created by the state of Florida to provide insurance to property owners unable to obtain coverage in
the private insurance market. Effective July 1, 2008, FL Citizens, at the discretion and direction of its Board of Governors ("FL Citizens Board"), can levy a regular assessment on "assessable
insurers" and "assessable insureds" for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of 6% of the deficit or 6% of Florida property premiums industry-wide for the prior
year. Prior to July 2008, the assessment rate was 10%. The base of "assessable insurers" includes all property and casualty premiums in the state, except workers' compensation, medical malpractice,
accident and health insurance and policies written under NFIP. An insurer may recoup a regular assessment through a surcharge to policyholders. In order to recoup this assessment, an insurer must file
for a policy surcharge with the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") at least fifteen days prior to imposing the surcharge on policies. If a deficit remains after the regular assessment,
FL Citizens can also levy emergency assessments in the current and subsequent years. Companies are required to collect the emergency assessments directly from residential property policyholders and
remit to FL Citizens as collected.   

          FL
Citizens reported losses from Hurricane Wilma in 2005, which followed a deficit for the 2004 plan year. The FL Citizens Board certified the 2005 FL Citizens deficit at
$1.73 billion of which $920 million was to be funded through a regular assessment. The Company paid its portion of the deficit assessment totaling $14 million during 2006 and has
recouped $6 million as of December 31, 2008. The Company expects to continue recoupment in 2009. The remainder of the deficit was funded by bonds issued in 2006.   

          The
Company is also subject to assessments from LA Citizens. LA Citizens can levy a regular assessment on participating companies for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of
the greater of 10% of the calendar year deficit or 10% of Louisiana direct property premiums industry-wide for the prior calendar year.   

  198  

Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund     

          Allstate Floridian participates in the mandatory coverage provided by the FHCF and therefore has access to reimbursements on certain
qualifying Florida hurricane losses (see Note 9) from the FHCF, has exposure to assessments and pays annual premiums to the FHCF for this reimbursement protection. The FHCF has the authority to
issue bonds to pay its obligations to insurers participating in the mandatory coverage in excess of its capital balances. Payment of these bonds is funded by emergency assessments on all property and
casualty premiums in the state, except workers' compensation, medical malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies written under the NFIP. The FHCF emergency assessments are limited to 6%
of premiums per year beginning the first year in which reimbursements require bonding, and up to a total of 10% of premiums per year for assessments in the second and subsequent years, if required to
fund additional bonding. The FHCF issued approximately $625 million and $4 billion in bonds in 2008 and 2006, respectively, and the FL OIR ordered an emergency assessment of 1% of
premiums collected for all policies renewed after January 1, 2007. As required, companies will collect the FHCF emergency assessments directly from policyholders and remit them to the FHCF as
they are collected.   

          Facilities
such as FL Citizens, LA Citizens and the FHCF are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders, however, the exposure to assessments and the
availability of recoupments or premium rate increases from these facilities may not offset each other in the Company's financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not
offset each other in financial statements for the same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases, as well as the possibility of policies not
being renewed in subsequent years.   

    California Earthquake Authority     

          Exposure to certain potential losses from earthquakes in California is limited by the Company's participation in the California
Earthquake Authority ("CEA"), which provides insurance for California earthquake losses. The CEA is a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage for
earthquake damage. Insurers selling homeowners insurance in California are required to offer earthquake insurance to their customers either through their company or by participation in the CEA. The
Company's homeowners policies continue to include coverages for losses caused by explosions, theft, glass breakage and fires following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by the CEA.   

          Should
losses arising from an earthquake cause a deficit in the CEA, additional funding would be obtained through reinsurance proceeds and assessments on participating insurance
companies. Beginning December 1, 2008, participating insurers are required to pay an assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.47 billion, if the capital of the CEA falls below
$350 million. Participating insurers are required to pay a second assessment, currently estimated not to exceed $1.30 billion, if aggregate CEA earthquake losses exceed
$8.74 billion and the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million. In 2007, the authority of the CEA to assess participating insurers was extended for ten years from December 1,
2008, the date the previous authority was due to expire.   

          At
October 31, 2008, the CEA's capital balance was approximately $3.15 billion. If the CEA assesses its member insurers for any amount, the amount of future assessments on
members is reduced by the amounts previously assessed. To date, the only assessment made by the CEA has been its initial assessment paid by participating insurers beginning in 1996.   

          All
future assessments on participating CEA insurers are based on their CEA insurance market share as of December 31 of the preceding year. As of December 31, 2007, the
Company's share of the CEA was 19.9%. Allstate does not expect its CEA market share to materially change. At this level, the Company's maximum possible CEA assessment would be $551 million
during 2009. Accordingly, assessments from the CEA for a particular quarter or annual period may be material to the results of operations and cash flows, but not the financial position of the Company.
Management believes Allstate's exposure to earthquake losses in California has been significantly reduced as a result of its participation in the CEA.   

    Texas Windstorm Insurance Association     

          The Company participates in the mandatory coverage provided by the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA"), for losses relating
to hurricane activity. Amounts assessed to each company are allocated based upon its proportion of business written. The Company was assessed $9 million for losses relating to Hurricane Dolly
in August 2008. The assessment was based on a combination of 2006 and 2007
voluntary writings in the State of Texas. The entire assessment was deemed non-recoupable via premium tax offsets.   

  199  

In
September 2008, TWIA assessed the Company $66 million for losses relating to Hurricane Ike. The assessment was based on 2007 direct voluntary writings in the State of Texas. We
expect to recoup $35 million of the assessment via premium tax offsets over a five year period. $31 million of the assessment is eligible for cession under the Company's reinsurance
program. The TWIA board has not indicated the likelihood of any possible future assessments to insurers at this time. However, assessments from the TWIA for a particular quarter or annual period may
be material to the results of operations and cash flows, but not the financial position of the Company. Management believes Allstate's exposure to losses in Texas has been significantly reduced as a
result of its participation in the TWIA.   

    Guaranty funds     

          Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, for certain
obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Amounts assessed to each company are typically related to its proportion of business written in each state. The Company's
policy is to accrue assessments as the related written premium upon which the assessment is based is written, subsequent to the occurrence of a formal determination of insolvency. As of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, the liability balance included in other liabilities and accrued expenses was $118 million and $107 million, respectively. The related premium tax
offsets included in other assets were $29 million and $21 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

Shared markets     

          As a condition of maintaining its licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, the Company is required
to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable
to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to the results of operations.   

    PMI runoff support agreement     

          The Company has certain limited rights and obligations under a capital support agreement ("Runoff Support Agreement") with PMI Mortgage
Insurance Company ("PMI"), the primary operating subsidiary of PMI Group, related to the Company's disposition of PMI in prior years. Under the Runoff Support Agreement, the Company would be required
to pay claims on PMI policies written prior to October 28, 1994 if PMI
fails certain financial covenants and fails to pay such claims. The agreement only covers these policies and not any policies issued on or after that date. In the event any amounts are so paid, the
Company would receive a commensurate amount of preferred stock or subordinated debt of PMI Group or PMI. The Runoff Support Agreement also restricts PMI's ability to write new business and pay
dividends under certain circumstances. Management does not believe this agreement will have a material adverse effect on results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

Guarantees     

          The Company provides residual value guarantees on Company leased automobiles. If all outstanding leases were terminated effective
December 31, 2008, the Company's maximum obligation pursuant to these guarantees, assuming the automobiles have no residual value, would be $17 million at December 31, 2008. The
remaining term of each residual value guarantee is equal to the term of the underlying lease that ranges from less than one year to three years. Historically, the Company has not made any material
payments pursuant to these guarantees.   

          The
Company owns certain fixed income securities that obligate the Company to exchange credit risk or to forfeit principal due, depending on the nature or occurrence of specified credit
events for the referenced entities. In the event all such specified credit events were to occur, the Company's maximum amount at risk on these fixed income securities, as measured by the amount of the
aggregate initial investment was $195 million at December 31, 2008. The obligations associated with these fixed income securities expire at various dates during the next six years.   

          In
the normal course of business, the Company provides standard indemnifications to contractual counterparties in connection with numerous transactions, including acquisitions and
divestitures. The types of indemnifications typically provided include indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties, taxes and certain other liabilities, such as third party
lawsuits. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and are entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. The terms
of the indemnifications vary in duration and nature. In many cases, the maximum   

  200  

obligation
is not explicitly stated and the contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify have not occurred and are not expected to occur. Consequently, the maximum amount of the obligation
under such indemnifications is not determinable. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments pursuant to these obligations.   

          The
aggregate liability balance related to all guarantees was not material as of December 31, 2008.   

    Regulation     

          The Company is subject to changing social, economic and regulatory conditions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or legislative
bodies seek to influence and restrict premium rates, require premium refunds to policyholders, restrict the ability of insurers to cancel or non-renew policies, require insurers to
continue to write new policies or limit their ability to write new policies, limit insurers' ability to
change coverage terms or to impose underwriting standards, impose additional regulations regarding agent and broker compensation and otherwise expand overall regulation of insurance products and the
insurance industry. The ultimate changes and eventual effects of these initiatives on the Company's business, if any, are uncertain.   

          The
National Association of Insurance Commissioners has initiated a multi-state examination of Allstate's claims handling practices and has designated Florida, Illinois, Iowa and New
York as lead states. Allstate intends to cooperate with the examiners.   

     Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries      

     Background      

          The Company and certain subsidiaries are involved in a number of lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising
out of various aspects of its business. As background to the "Proceedings" subsection below, please note the following:   

These matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to many uncertainties and
complexities, including the underlying facts of each matter; novel legal issues; variations between jurisdictions in which matters are being litigated, heard, or investigated; differences in
applicable laws and judicial interpretations; the length of time before many of these matters might be resolved by settlement, through litigation or otherwise; the fact that some of the lawsuits are
putative class actions in which a class has not been certified and in which the purported class may not be clearly defined; the fact that some of the lawsuits involve multi-state class actions in
which the applicable law(s) for the claims at issue is in dispute and therefore unclear; and the current challenging legal environment faced by large corporations and insurance companies.    
           The outcome on these matters may also be affected by decisions, verdicts, and settlements, and the timing of such
decisions, verdicts, and settlements, in other individual and class action lawsuits that involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities and by other legal, governmental, and regulatory actions
that involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities.     
           In the lawsuits, plaintiffs seek a variety of remedies including equitable relief in the form of injunctive and other
remedies and monetary relief in the form of contractual and extra-contractual damages. In some cases, the monetary damages sought include punitive or treble damages. Often specific information about
the relief sought, such as the amount of damages, is not available because plaintiffs have not requested specific relief in their pleadings. When specific monetary demands are made, they are often set
just below a state court jurisdictional limit in order to seek the maximum amount available in state court, regardless of the specifics of the case, while still avoiding the risk of removal to federal
court. In Allstate's experience, monetary demands in pleadings bear little relation to the ultimate loss, if any, to the Company.     
           In connection with regulatory examinations and proceedings, government authorities may seek various forms of relief,
including penalties, restitution and changes in business practices. The Company may not be advised of the nature and extent of relief sought until the final stages of the examination or proceeding.    
           For the reasons specified above, it is often not possible to make meaningful estimates of the amount or range of loss that
could result from the matters described below in the "Proceedings" subsection. The Company reviews these matters on an ongoing basis and follows the provisions of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for
Contingencies", when making accrual and disclosure decisions. When assessing reasonably possible and probable outcomes, the Company bases its decisions on its assessment of the ultimate outcome
following all appeals.    
 
  201  

Due to the complexity and scope of the matters disclosed in the "Proceedings" subsection below and the many uncertainties
that exist, the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be reasonably predicted. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of
amounts currently reserved and may be material to the Company's operating results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual period. However, based on information currently known to it,
management believes that the ultimate outcome of all matters described below, as they are resolved over time, is not likely to have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company.    

Proceedings      

          There are a number of state and nationwide class action lawsuits pending in various state courts challenging the legal propriety of
Allstate's medical bill review processes on a number of grounds, including the manner in which Allstate determines reasonableness and necessity. These lawsuits, which to a large degree mirror similar
lawsuits filed against other carriers in the industry, allege these processes are used by Allstate systematically to undervalue claims. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages in the form of contractual and
extra-contractual damages. The Company denies these allegations. One nationwide class action has been certified. The Company continues to vigorously defend these cases.   

          There
is a nationwide putative class action pending against Allstate that challenges Allstate's use of a vendor's automated database in valuing total loss automobiles. To a large degree,
this lawsuit mirrors similar lawsuits filed against other carriers in the industry. Plaintiffs allege that Allstate systematically underpays first party total loss vehicle claims. The plaintiffs are
seeking actual and punitive damages. The lawsuit is in the early stages of discovery and Allstate is vigorously defending it.   

The
Company is defending a number of matters filed in the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, including individual lawsuits, and several statewide putative class action lawsuits
pending in Mississippi and Louisiana. These matters are in various stages of development. The lawsuits and developments in litigation arising from the hurricanes include the
following:   

The Mississippi Attorney General filed a suit asserting that the flood exclusion found in Allstate's and other insurance
companies' policies is either ambiguous, unenforceable as unconscionable or contrary to public policy, or inapplicable to the damage suffered in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. In December 2008, the
trial court ruled that, as a matter of law, the flood exclusions are not ambiguous, unconscionable or against public policy and do not constitute a deceptive trade practice. The Court also ruled that
the Attorney General lacks standing necessary to bring the suit, as he is not a party to the insurance contracts at issue. Thus, all of the claims filed against the Company were dismissed.    
           Six members of the Mississippi Windstorm Underwriters Association ("MWUA") have filed two separate lawsuits against the
MWUA board members and the companies they represent, including an Allstate subsidiary, alleging that the Board purchased insufficient reinsurance to protect the MWUA members. One of these lawsuits
(filed by four MWUA members) is pending in federal court and was filed as a class action. In that case, Plaintiffs' motion for class certification has been denied. Defendants filed motions for summary
judgment as to the individual plaintiffs' claims. These motions for summary judgment were denied. The trial on the individual plaintiffs' claims is scheduled to start on March 3, 2009. After
the court denied class certification in the first case, two MWUA members that are not named plaintiffs in the first case filed another virtually identical lawsuit which is currently pending in
Mississippi state court.     
           The Company has also been sued in a putative class action in the United States District Court for the Western District of
Louisiana. The plaintiffs allege that they were entitled to, but did not receive, payment for general contractor overhead and profit ("GCOP") or that the GCOP they received was not adequate to
compensate them for the entire costs of a general contractor. The plaintiffs also alleged that Allstate incorrectly calculated depreciation on property losses. The Court granted partial summary
judgment, and dismissed the claim challenging the method of calculating depreciation. In October 2008, the Court heard plaintiffs' motion to certify three subclasses: the first class would impose a
"three trade rule", meaning any time three or more trades are reflected on the estimate, GCOP must be paid; the second class encompassed the alleged miscalculation of GCOP when both general and
specialty contractors are involved; and the third class sought to impose on the Company statutory penalties for its alleged breach of contract with regard to the first two subclasses. The Court denied
plaintiffs' motion on the certification of the two subclasses regarding the "three trade rule" and statutory penalties. The plaintiffs' motion for certification of the third subclass alleging that
GCOP is not properly calculated when both general and specialty contractors are involved is pending.    
 
  202  

The Louisiana Attorney General filed a class action lawsuit in state court against Allstate and other insurers on behalf
of Road Home fund recipients alleging that the insurers have failed to pay all damages owed under their policies. The insurers removed the matter to federal court. The district court denied
plaintiffs' motion to remand the matter to state court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has upheld the denial of remand motion. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss. Plaintiffs'
motion to remand the claims involving a Road Home subrogation agreement is pending.     
           The Louisiana Attorney General also has filed a lawsuit in state court against Allstate, other insurers, a consulting
company, and two computer database companies. The lawsuit is brought under the Louisiana Monopolies Act and generally alleges the defendants conspired to suppress competition and thwart policyholder
recoveries. In December 2008, the U.S. District Court granted defendant insurers' motions to dismiss the lawsuit.     
           Private plaintiffs have filed a    qui tam    action under the Federal False
Claims Act against Allstate and certain other insurers in federal court in Louisiana regarding claims that they administered under the federally funded National Flood Insurance Program. The basic
allegations are that insurers and engineering firms falsely or fraudulently identified the cause of Hurricane Katrina related property damage as "flood" so that those claims would be paid through the
National Flood Insurance Program. The action was dismissed and plaintiffs appealed. On February 18, 2009, the appellate court affirmed the trial court's dismissal of Allstate from the action.    

The
various suits described above seek a variety of remedies, including actual and/or punitive damages in unspecified amounts and/or declaratory relief. The Company has been vigorously
defending these suits and other matters related to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.   

          In
addition, the Company had been providing documents to federal and state authorities conducting investigations into the insurance industry's handling of claims in the aftermath of
Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, including a federal grand jury sitting in the Southern District of Mississippi. The Assistant U.S. Attorney has requested the Company to provide additional information
with respect to claim handling. The Company is in the process of gathering this information. Other insurers have received similar subpoenas and requests for information.   

          Allstate
is defending various lawsuits involving worker classification issues. These lawsuits include several certified class actions challenging the overtime exemption claimed by the
Company under the Fair Labor Standards Act or a state wage and hour law. In these cases, plaintiffs seek monetary relief, such as penalties and liquidated damages, and non-monetary relief,
such as injunctive relief. In November 2008, the court in the Fair Labor Standards Act cases voluntarily dismissed 3,250 plaintiffs, leaving five remaining plaintiffs. These class actions mirror
similar lawsuits filed against other carriers in the industry and other employers. Allstate is continuing to vigorously defend its worker classification lawsuits.   

          The
Company is defending certain matters relating to the Company's agency program reorganization announced in 1999. These matters are in various stages of development.   

These matters include a lawsuit filed in 2001 by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC") alleging
retaliation under federal civil rights laws (the "EEOC I" suit) and a class action filed in 2001 by former employee agents alleging retaliation and age discrimination under the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act ("ADEA"), breach of contract and ERISA violations (the "Romero I" suit). In 2004, in the consolidated EEOC I and Romero I litigation, the trial court issued a memorandum and order that,
among other things, certified classes of agents, including a mandatory class of agents who had signed a release, for purposes of effecting the court's declaratory judgment that the release is voidable
at the option of the release signer. The court also ordered that an agent who voids the release must return to Allstate "any and all benefits received by the [agent] in
exchange for signing the release." The court also stated that, "on the undisputed facts of record, there is no basis for claims of age discrimination." The EEOC and plaintiffs have asked the court to
clarify and/or reconsider its memorandum and order and in January 2007, the judge denied their request. In June 2007, the court granted the Company's motions for summary judgment. Following
plaintiffs' filing of a notice of appeal, the Third Circuit issued an order in December 2007 stating that the notice of appeal was not taken from a final order within the meaning of the federal law
and thus not appealable at this time. In March 2008, the Third Circuit decided that the appeal should not summarily be dismissed and that the question of whether the matter is appealable at this time
will be addressed by the Court along with the merits of the appeal.     
           The EEOC also filed another lawsuit in 2004 alleging age discrimination with respect to a policy limiting the rehire of
agents affected by the agency program reorganization (the "EEOC II" suit). In EEOC II, in 2006,    
 
  203  

the
court granted partial summary judgment to the EEOC. Although the court did not determine that the Company was liable for age discrimination under the ADEA, it determined that the rehire policy
resulted in a disparate impact, reserving for trial the determination on whether the Company had reasonable factors other than age to support the rehire policy. The Company's interlocutory appeal from
the partial summary judgment was granted. In June 2008, the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed summary judgment in the EEOC's favor. In September 2008, the Court of Appeals granted the Company's
petition for rehearing    en banc    and vacated its earlier decision affirming the trial court's grant of summary judgment in favor of the EEOC. The Court of
Appeals then dismissed the appeal, determining that it lacked jurisdiction to consider the appeal at this stage in the litigation.    

The Company is also defending a certified class action filed by former employee agents who terminated their employment
prior to the agency program reorganization. Plaintiffs allege that they were constructively discharged so that Allstate could avoid paying ERISA and other benefits offered under the reorganization.
They claim that the constructive discharge resulted from the implementation of agency standards, including mandatory office hours and a requirement to have licensed staff available during business
hours. The court approved the form of class notice which was sent to approximately 1,800 potential class members in November 2007. Fifteen individuals opted out. The Company's motions for judgment on
the pleadings were partially granted. In May 2008, the Court granted summary judgment in Allstate's favor on all class claims. Plaintiffs moved for reconsideration and in the alternative to decertify
the class. Allstate opposed this motion and filed a motion for summary judgment with respect to the remaining non-class claim. In August 2008, the court denied plaintiffs' motion to
reconsider and to decertify the class. In February 2009, plaintiffs moved to dismiss the sole remaining claim with prejudice, which the court promptly granted, ending this litigation in the trial
court.     
           A putative nationwide class action has also been filed by former employee agents alleging various violations of ERISA,
including a worker classification issue. These plaintiffs are challenging certain amendments to the Agents Pension Plan and are seeking to have exclusive agent independent contractors treated as
employees for benefit purposes. This matter was dismissed with prejudice by the trial court, was the subject of further proceedings on appeal, and was reversed and remanded to the trial court in 2005.
In June 2007, the court granted Allstate's motion to dismiss the case. Following plaintiffs' filing of a notice of appeal, the Third Circuit issued an order in December 2007 stating that the notice of
appeal was not taken from a final order within the meaning of the federal law and thus not appealable at this time. In March 2008, the Third Circuit decided that the appeal should not summarily be
dismissed and that the question of whether the matter is appealable at this time will be addressed by the Court along with the merits of the appeal.    

In
all of these various matters, plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages, and equitable relief. Allstate has been vigorously defending these lawsuits and other matters related
to its agency program reorganization.   

          Allstate
is defending a certified 13-state class action challenging the method by which Allstate discloses installment fees. The plaintiffs contend that installment fees must
be disclosed on the insurance policy itself, which would include the declarations page, because the fees allegedly meet the legal definition of "premium." Plaintiffs seek repayment of installment fees
since October 1996. The New Mexico trial court had initially certified the 13-state class in 2005. In 2007, the class, except for New Mexico, was set aside on appeal. In June 2008, the New
Mexico Supreme Court reinstated the 13-state class of Allstate policyholders who paid installment fees from October 1996 to present. The Court has denied the Company's motion for
reconsideration. The matter now is pending before the trial court.   

     Other matters      

          Various other legal, governmental, and regulatory actions, including state market conduct exams, and other governmental and regulatory
inquiries are currently pending that involve the Company and specific aspects of its conduct of business. Like other members of the insurance industry, the Company is the target of a number of class
action lawsuits and other types of proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts. These actions are based on a variety of issues and target a range of the
Company's practices. The outcome of these disputes is currently unpredictable.   

  204  

One or more of these matters could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual period. However, based on information
currently known to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome of all matters described in this "Other Matters" subsection, in excess of amounts currently reserved, as they are resolved over
time is not likely to have a material effect on the operating results, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

    Asbestos and environmental     

          Allstate's reserves for asbestos claims were $1.23 billion and $1.30 billion, net of reinsurance recoverables of
$704 million and $752 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Reserves for environmental claims were $195 million and $232 million, net of reinsurance
recoverables of $56 million and $107 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Approximately 64% and 63% of the total net asbestos and environmental reserves at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were for incurred but not reported estimated losses.   

          Management
believes its net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and
regulations. However, establishing net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are greater than those presented by other types of
claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimate. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long reporting
delays, uncertainty as to the number and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the determination,
availability and timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability, availability and collectability of recoveries from reinsurance, retrospectively
determined premiums and other contractual agreements; and estimating the extent and timing of any contractual liability, and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the
interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium,
reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Courts have reached different and sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage;
what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are determined; how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether
clean-up costs represent insured property damage. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future, and the ultimate cost may vary materially from the
amounts currently recorded resulting in an increase in loss reserves. In addition, while the Company believes that improved actuarial techniques and databases have assisted in its ability to estimate
asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines net loss reserves, these refinements may subsequently prove to be inadequate indicators of the extent of probable losses. Due to the uncertainties
and factors described above, management believes it is not practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

   14.  Income Taxes     

          The Company and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. Tax liabilities and benefits realized by the consolidated group
are allocated as generated by the respective entities.   

          The
Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") is currently examining the Company's 2005 and 2006 federal income tax returns. The IRS examination of the Company's 2003 and 2004 tax returns is
complete, and a closing agreement documenting the settlement of that audit was signed by the Company and the IRS. The statute of limitations for 2003 and 2004 expired during the third quarter of 2008.
The Company's federal income tax returns for tax years prior to 2003 have been examined by the IRS and the statute of limitations has expired on those years. Any adjustments that may result from IRS
examinations of tax returns are not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

  205  

The
reconciliation of the change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

($ in millions)    
     
   2008    
     
   2007    

Balance beginning of year  
     
   $  
  76  
     
   $  
  48  

Increase for tax positions taken in a prior year  

1  

2  

Decrease for tax positions taken in a prior year  

Increase for tax positions taken in the current year  

4  

15  

Decrease for tax positions taken in the current year  

(Decrease) increase for settlements  

(60  
  )  
     
   11  

Reductions due to lapse of statute of limitations  

Balance end of year  
     
   $  
  21  
     
   $  
  76  

The
Company believes it is reasonably possible that the liability balance will not significantly increase or decrease within the next twelve months. Because of the impact of deferred tax
accounting, recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits is not expected to impact the Company's effective tax rate.   

          The
Company recognizes interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company recorded $5 million of interest income and $1 million of
interest expense relating to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense in 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, total interest accrued with respect to unrecognized
tax benefits was $0.1 million and $7 million, respectively. No amounts have been accrued for penalties.   

          The
components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 31 are as follows:   

Although
realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, will be realized based on the Company's
assessment that the deductions ultimately recognized for tax purposes will be able to be fully utilized. The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets increased by $43 million in 2008.   

          The
components of income tax (benefit) expense for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

206  

As
of December 31, 2008, the Company has a net operating loss carryforward of approximately $593 million, which will be available to offset future taxable income. This
carryforward will expire at the end of 2023.   

          The
Company paid income taxes of $511 million, $2.03 billion and $1.64 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company had a current income tax receivable
of $1.48 billion and $155 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          A
reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate on income from operations for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

15.  Statutory Financial Information     

          Allstate's domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices
prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include a variety of publications of the NAIC, as well as state laws,
regulations and general administrative rules. Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices not so prescribed.   

All
states require domiciled insurance companies to prepare statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual, subject to any
deviations prescribed or permitted by the applicable insurance commissioner and/or director.   

          Statutory
accounting practices differ from GAAP primarily since they require charging policy acquisition and certain sales inducement costs to expense as incurred, establishing life
insurance reserves based on different actuarial assumptions, and valuing certain investments and establishing deferred taxes on a different basis.   

Statutory
net income and capital and surplus of Allstate's domestic insurance subsidiaries, determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by
insurance regulatory authorities are as follows:   

(1)    The
Property-Liability statutory capital and surplus balances exclude wholly-owned subsidiaries included in the Allstate Financial segment.    

          The commissioner of the Illinois Division of Insurance has permitted ALIC to record its market value adjusted annuity assets and liabilities at
book value pursuant to the Illinois Insurance Code which provides an alternative from market value accounting with approval of the commissioner. This accounting practice would have increased statutory
capital and surplus by $394 million as of October 1, 2008. On a pro-forma basis, this accounting practice increased statutory capital and surplus by $1.24 billion at
December 31, 2008 over what it would have been had the permitted practice not been allowed. The increase from October 1, 2008 was primarily the result of decreases in the fair value of
the investments, while the reserve balances were comparable.   

          The
commissioner of the Illinois Division of Insurance has permitted AIC and ALIC to admit deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized within three years of the balance sheet
date limited to 15% of statutory capital and surplus, instead of deferred tax assets that are expected to be realized within one year of the balance sheet date limited to 10% of statutory capital and
surplus. This accounting practice increased statutory capital and surplus by $365 million at December 31, 2008 over what it would have been had the permitted practice not been allowed.
Admitted statutory-basis deferred tax assets totaled $1.76 billion or 60% of the gross deferred tax assets before non-admission limitations.   

  207  

Dividends     

          The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent on business conditions, income, cash requirements of the Company, receipt of
dividends from AIC and other relevant factors. The payment of shareholder dividends by AIC without the prior approval of the state insurance regulator is limited to formula amounts based on net income
and capital and surplus, determined in conformity with statutory accounting practices, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. Notification and approval of
intercompany lending activities is also required by the Illinois Division of Insurance ("IL DOI") for transactions that exceed a level that is based on a formula using statutory admitted assets and
statutory surplus.   

          AIC
paid dividends of $3.40 billion in 2008, which was less than the maximum amount allowed under Illinois insurance law without the prior approval of the IL DOI based on 2007
formula amounts. Based on 2008 AIC statutory net income, the maximum amount of dividends AIC will be able to pay without prior IL DOI approval at a given point in time during 2009 is
$1.30 billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve months measured at that point in time.   

16.  Benefit Plans     

    Pension and other postretirement plans     

          Defined benefit pension plans cover most full-time employees, certain part-time employees and employee-agents.
Benefits under the pension plans are based upon the employee's length of service and eligible annual compensation. A cash balance formula was added to the Allstate Retirement Plan effective
January 1, 2003. All eligible employees hired before August 1, 2002 were provided with a one-time opportunity to choose between the cash balance formula and the final average
pay formula. The cash balance formula applies to all eligible employees hired after August 1, 2002.   

The
Company also provides certain health care and life insurance subsidies for employees hired before January 1, 2003 when they retire ("postretirement benefits"). Qualified
employees may become eligible for these benefits if they retire in accordance with the Company's established retirement policy and are continuously insured under the Company's group plans or other
approved plans in accordance with the plan's participation requirements. The Company shares the cost of the retiree medical benefits with retirees based on years of service, with the Company's share
being subject to a 5% limit on annual medical cost inflation after retirement. The Company has the right to modify or terminate these pension and postretirement benefit plans.   

Obligations and funded status     

          The Company calculates benefit obligations based upon generally accepted actuarial methodologies using the PBO for pension plans and
the APBO for other postretirement plans. Pursuant to the adoption of SFAS No. 158 as described in Note 2, the determination of pension costs and other postretirement obligations as of
December 31, 2008 are determined using a December 31 measurement date. For December 31, 2007 and prior periods, an October 31 measurement date was utilized. The benefit
obligations represent the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed to employee service rendered as of the measurement date. The PBO is measured using the pension benefit formula and
assumptions as to future compensation levels. A plan's funded status is calculated as the difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. The Company's funding policy for
the pension plans is to make annual contributions at a level that is in accordance with regulations under the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") and generally accepted actuarial principles. The Company's
postretirement benefits plans are not funded.   

  208  

The
components of the plans' funded status that are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, are as follows:   

The
increase of $1.26 billion in the pension net actuarial loss during 2008 is related to asset returns being less than expected returns partially offset by an increase in the
discount rate. The majority of the $2.06 billion net actuarial pension benefit losses not yet recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in 2008 reflects the effect of unfavorable
equity market conditions on the value of the pension plan assets, and to a lesser extent decreases in the discount rate in prior years. The increase of $161 million in the OPEB net actuarial
gain during 2008 is primarily related to an increase in the discount rate and favorable claims experience.   

The
change in 2008 in items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost, which is recorded in unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost, is shown in the table
below.   

($ in millions)    
     
   Pension 
benefits    
     
   Postretirement 
benefits    

Items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost December 31, 2007  
     
   $  
  785  
     
   $  
  (229  
  )  

Effects of changing the measurement date pursuant to SFAS No. 158:  

Transition period amortization adjustment to retained earnings, pre-tax  

(5  
  )  
     
   3  

Net actuarial (gain) loss arising during the transition period  

152  

(30  
  )  

Items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost January 1, 2008  

932  

(256  
  )  

Net actuarial (gain) loss arising during the period  

1,223  

(155  
  )  

Net actuarial gain (loss) amortized to net periodic benefit cost  

(94  
  )  
     
   24  

Prior service cost arising during the period  

(2  
  )  

Prior service (cost) credit amortized to net periodic benefit cost  

2  

Translation adjustment and other  

(13  
  )  
     
   (2  
  )  

Items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost December 31, 2008  
     
   $  
  2,050  
     
   $  
  (391  
  )  

The
net actuarial (gain) loss is recognized as a component of net periodic cost amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to receive benefits.
Estimates of the net actuarial (gain) loss and prior service cost (credit) expected to be recognized as component of net periodic benefit cost during 2009 are shown in the table below.   

($ in millions)    
     
   Pension benefits    
     
   Postretirement benefits    

Net actuarial (gain) loss  
     
   $  
  13  
     
   $  
  (31  
  )  

Prior service cost (credit)  

(2  
  )  
     
   2  

The
accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") for all defined benefit pension plans was $3.93 billion and $4.42 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
ABO is the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered at the measurement date. However, it differs from the PBO due to the exclusion
of an assumption as to future compensation levels.   

  209  

The
PBO, ABO and fair value of plan assets for the Company's pension plans with an ABO in excess of plan assets were $4.57 billion, $3.93 billion, and $3.40 billion,
respectively as of December 31, 2008, and $175 million, $175 million, and $5 million, respectively as of December 31, 2007. Included in the accrued benefit cost of
the pension benefits are certain unfunded non-qualified plans with accrued benefit costs of $198 million and $170 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively.   

          The
changes in benefit obligations for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    Benefits
paid include lump sum distributions, a portion of which may trigger settlement accounting treatment.
      (2)    In
2007, the Company amended its postretirement benefits plan to allow exclusive agent independent contractors who met eligibility requirements at the time
of conversion from an employee agent, to enroll in the retiree medical plan under certain circumstances.    

Components of net periodic cost     

          The components of net periodic cost for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Assumptions     

          Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost for the years ended
December 31 are:   

210  

Weighted
average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 are listed in the following table. Assumptions for December 31, 2008 are based on a
December 31 measurement date. Assumptions for December 31, 2007 and prior are based on an October 31 measurement date.   

The
weighted average health care cost trend rate used in measuring the accumulated postretirement benefit cost is 8.0% for 2009, gradually declining to 5.0% in 2015 and remaining at that
level thereafter.   

          Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement health care plans. A one percentage-point increase in assumed health care
cost trend rates would increase the total of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by $6 million and
$46 million, respectively. A one percentage-point decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates would decrease the total of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit
cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by $5 million and $42 million, respectively.   

    Pension plan assets     

          The pension plans target percentage of plan assets and the actual percentage of plan assets, by asset category at December 31
are as follows:   

211  

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. This assumption is reviewed annually giving consideration
to appropriate financial data including, but not limited to, the plan asset allocation, the period over which benefits will be paid, historical returns on plan assets and other relevant market data. A
consistent method was used to determine the expected long-term return on plan assets assumption at December 31, 2008 and 2007 of 8.5%. As of the 2008 measurement date, the
arithmetic average of the annual actual return on plan assets for the most recent 10 and 5 years was 3.3% and 4.6%, respectively.   

Pension
plan assets did not include any of the Company's common stock at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, pension plan assets included $11 million of the
Company's common stock.   

          The
change in pension plan assets for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Cash flows     

          There was no required cash contribution necessary to satisfy the minimum funding requirement under the IRC for the tax qualified
pension plans as of December 31, 2008. The Company currently plans to contribute $292 million to its pension plans in 2009.   

          The
Company contributed $40 million and $45 million to the postretirement benefit plans in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Contributions by participants were
$37 million and $41 million in 2008 and 2007.   

    Estimated future benefit payments     

          Estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid in the next 10 years, based on the assumptions used to measure the
Company's benefit obligation at December 31, 2008, and the estimated subsidy to be received are as follows:   

Profit sharing plans     

          Employees of the Company, with the exception of those employed by the Company's international subsidiaries and Sterling Collision
Centers ("Sterling") subsidiary, are eligible to become members of The Savings and Profit Sharing Fund of Allstate Employees ("Allstate Plan"). The Company's contributions are based on the Company's
matching obligation and certain performance measures. The Company is responsible for funding its anticipated contribution to the Allstate Plan, and may, at the discretion of management, use the ESOP
to pre-fund certain portions. In connection with the Allstate Plan, the Company has a note from the ESOP with a principal balance of $22 million at December 31, 2008. The
ESOP note has a fixed interest rate of 7.9% and matures in 2019. The Company records dividends on the ESOP shares in retained income and all the shares held by the ESOP are included in basic and
diluted weighted average common shares outstanding.   

  212  

The
Company's contribution to the Allstate Plan was $48 million, $124 million and $127 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts were reduced by
the ESOP benefit computed for the years ended December 31 as follows:   

The
Company contributed $5 million, $13 million and $13 million to the ESOP in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2008, total committed to be
released, allocated and unallocated ESOP shares were 0.2 million, 33 million and 6 million, respectively.   

          Allstate
has profit sharing plans for eligible employees of its Canadian insurance subsidiaries and Sterling. Profit sharing expense for these plans was $2 million,
$8 million and $9 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

17.  Equity Incentive Plans     

          The Company currently has two equity incentive plans that permit it to grant nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted or unrestricted
shares of the Company's stock and restricted stock units to certain employees and directors of the Company. The total compensation expense related to equity awards was $85 million,
$90 million and $98 million and the total income tax benefits were $29 million, $30 million and $34 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively. Total cash received from the exercise of options was $33 million, $109 million and $239 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Total tax benefit realized on options exercised and stock unrestricted was $12 million, $43 million and $67 million for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          The
Company records compensation expense related to awards under these plans over the vesting period of each grant. The Company records compensation expense for employees eligible for
continued vesting upon retirement over the vesting period to the date that the employee is eligible for retirement. As of December 31, 2008, total unrecognized compensation cost related to all
nonvested awards was $114 million, which is expected to be recognized over the weighted average vesting period of 2.20 years.   

Options
are granted under the plans at exercise prices equal to the fair value of the Company's common stock on the applicable grant date. The options granted under the Allstate plans
generally vest ratably over a four-year period. For directors, vesting is generally over a three-year period. The options granted may be exercised once vested and will expire
ten years after the date of grant unless the employee or director retires. After retirement, employee stock options vest as scheduled. For directors, vesting accelerates to the date of retirement.
When the options become vested, they may be exercised on or before the earlier of the option expiration date or the fifth anniversary of the employee's or director's retirement. Restricted stock and
restricted stock units generally vest and unrestrict in full on the fourth anniversary of the grant date, except for directors which vest immediately and unrestrict immediately after leaving the
board. The awards are subject to forfeiture upon termination. For terminations due to retirement, shares continue to unrestrict as provided for in the original grant. As disclosed in Note 12,
in 2006 the Company accelerated the vesting of stock-based incentive compensation as a one-time benefit for employees electing its VTO program.   

          A
total of 49.6 million shares of common stock were originally authorized to be used for awards under the plans, subject to adjustment in accordance with the plans' terms. At
December 31, 2008, 12.7 million shares were reserved and remained available for future issuance under these plans. The Company uses its treasury shares for these issuances.   

The
fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee
termination within the valuation model. In addition, separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. The expected term of
options granted is derived from the output of the binominal lattice model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility of fair value
is implied based on traded options and historical volatility of the Company's common stock.   

  213  

The
expected dividends are based on the current dividend yield of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The risk-free rate for periods within the contractual life of the option
is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The assumptions used are shown in the following table.   

A
summary of option activity for the year ended December 31, 2008 is shown in the following table.   

The
weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $9.98, $16.08 and $15.25 during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The intrinsic
value, which is the difference between the fair value and the exercise price, of options exercised was $9 million, $68 million and $149 million during the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total fair value of options vested was zero, $57 million and $61 million during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively.   

          The
changes in restricted stock and restricted stock units are shown in the following table for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

The
fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is based on the market value of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The market value in part reflects the
payment of future dividends expected. The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units granted was $48.00, $61.75 and $54.10 during the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units vested was $25 million, $34 million and $7 million
during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

          The
tax benefit realized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 related to tax deductions from stock option exercises and included in shareholders' equity was $3 million, $20 million and
$47 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized in 2008, 2007 and 2006 related to all stock-based compensation and credited directly to shareholders' equity was $3 million,
$30 million and $53 million, respectively.   

  214  

18.  Business Segments     

          Allstate management is organized around products and services, and this structure is considered in the identification of its four reportable segments. These
segments and their respective operations are as follows:   

             Allstate Protection    sells principally private passenger auto and homeowners insurance in the United States and Canada. Revenues from
external customers generated outside the United States were $665 million, $668 million and $614 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon underwriting results.   

             Discontinued Lines and Coverages    consists of business no longer written by Allstate, including results from asbestos, environmental and
other discontinued lines claims, and certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. This segment also includes the historical results of the commercial and reinsurance businesses sold
in 1996. The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon underwriting results.   

Allstate Financial    sells life insurance, retirement and investment products and voluntary accident and health insurance to individual and
institutional customers. The principal individual products are fixed annuities; interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; and voluntary accident and health insurance. The principal
institutional product is funding agreements backing medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual investors. Banking products and services are also offered to customers through
the Allstate Bank. Revenues from external customers generated outside the United States were immaterial with respect to Allstate Financial total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006. The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon operating income.   

             Corporate and Other    comprises holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.   

          Allstate
Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages together comprise Property-Liability. The Company does not allocate Property-Liability investment income, realized capital gains
and losses, or assets to the Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments. Management reviews assets at the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial, and Corporate and Other levels
for decision-making purposes.   

          The
accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those described in Note 2. The effects of certain inter-segment transactions are excluded from segment performance
evaluation and therefore eliminated in the segment results.   

    Measuring segment profit or loss     

          The measure of segment profit or loss used by Allstate's management in evaluating performance is underwriting income (loss) for the
Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments and operating income (loss) for Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments. A reconciliation of these measures to net income
is provided below.   

             Underwriting income (loss)    is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expenses ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating
costs and expenses, and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.   

             Operating income (loss)    is net income (loss) excluding:   

realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on
non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income,     
           accretion (amortization) of DAC and DSI, to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital
gains and losses,     
           (gain) loss on disposition of operations, after-tax, and     
           adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of
the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.    
 
  215  

Summarized revenue data for each of the Company's business segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating costs and
expenses.    
  216  

Summarized financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)    During
the fourth quarter of 2008, for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, an aggregate premium deficiency of
$336 million, pre-tax ($219 million, after-tax) resulted primarily from an experience study indicating that the annuitants on certain life-contingent
contracts are projected to live longer than we anticipated when the contracts were issued, and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio yield. The deficiency was recorded
through a reduction in deferred acquisition costs. During 2006, there was a write-off of present value of future profits related to a block of corporate owned life insurance policies that
terminated due to bankruptcy of the policyholder.
      (2)    For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating costs and
expenses.    
  217  

Additional significant financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Interest
expense is primarily incurred in the Corporate and Other segment. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are generally made in the Property-Liability segment. A
portion of these long-lived assets are used by entities included in the Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments, and accordingly, are charged expenses in proportion to their
use.   

          Summarized
data for total assets and investments for each of the Company's reportable segments as of December 31 are as follows:   

The
balances above reflect the elimination of related party investments between the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial segments, and the Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other
segments.   

   19.  Other Comprehensive Income     

          The components of other comprehensive (loss) income on a pre-tax and after-tax basis for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

218  

20.  Quarterly Results (unaudited)     

219  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF 
THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION     

          We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related Consolidated Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income, Shareholders' Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008. We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in    Internal
Control-Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for these financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying     Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures   . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.   

          We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.   

          A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

          Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

          In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

          As
discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and accounting for deferred
acquisition costs associated with internal replacements in 2007 and defined pension and other postretirement plans in 2006.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 25, 2009   

  220  

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     

          None.    

    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures     

            Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted
an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive officer and the
principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance that material information required to be disclosed in our reports
filed with or submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the Securities
Exchange Act and made known to management, including the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   

            Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

          Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 based on the criteria related to internal control over financial reporting described in "Internal
Control Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.   

          Deloitte  
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K,
has issued their attestation report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting, which is included herein.   

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008, there have been no changes
in our
internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.    

    Item 9B.    Other Information     

None.   

  221  

Part III     

    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     

          Information regarding directors of The Allstate Corporation standing for election at the 2009 annual stockholders meeting is
incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to the descriptions in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Items to be Voted On Item 1. Election of Directors."   

Information
regarding the involvement of a director or executive officer of The Allstate Corporation in certain legal proceedings is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to
the descriptions in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Items to be Voted On Item 1. Election of Directors."   

          Information
regarding our audit committee and audit committee financial experts is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to the first paragraph of the discussion under the
captions "Corporate Governance Practices Board Committees Audit Committee" in the Proxy Statement.   

Information
regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to "Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy Statement.   

          Information
regarding executive officers of The Allstate Corporation is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to Part I, Item 1 of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers."   

          We
have adopted a code of ethics that applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and controller. The text of our code of
ethics is posted on our Internet website, Allstate.com.    

    Item 11.    Executive Compensation     

          Information required for Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the following
captions:   

Corporate Governance Practices Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation    
           Corporate Governance Practices Directors' Compensation and Benefits     
           Executive Compensation     

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     

          Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated in this Item 12 by
reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the following captions:   

Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans     
           Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers     
           Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners     

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     

Information required for Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Related
Person Transactions" and "Corporate Governance Practices Determinations of Independence of Nominees for Election."    

    Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services     

          Information required for Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Items
to be Voted On Item 2. Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accountant."   

  222  

Part IV     

    Item 15.(a)(1)    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.     

          The following consolidated financial statements, notes thereto and related information of The Allstate Corporation (the "Company") are
included in Item 8.   

  Consolidated
Statements of Operations   

  Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income   

  Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position   

  Consolidated
Statements of Shareholders' Equity   

  Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows   

  Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements   

  Quarterly
Results   

  Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Item 15.(a)(2)     

          The following additional financial statement schedules and independent auditors' report are furnished herewith pursuant to the
requirements of Form 10-K.   

The Allstate Corporation

Page    

Schedules required to be filed under the provisions of Regulation S-X Article 7:  

Schedule I  
     
       Summary of Investments Other than Investments in Related Parties  

S-1  

Schedule II  
     
       Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (The Allstate Corporation)  

S-2  

Schedule III  
     
       Supplementary Insurance Information  

S-6  

Schedule IV  
     
       Reinsurance  

S-7  

Schedule V  
     
       Valuation Allowances and Qualifying Accounts  

S-8  

Schedule VI  
     
       Supplementary Information Concerning Consolidated Property-Casualty Insurance Operations  

S-9  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

S-10  

All
other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or in notes
thereto.   

    Item 15.(a)(3)     

          The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The exhibit numbers followed by an asterisk
(*) indicate exhibits that are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. The SEC File Number for the exhibits incorporated by reference is 1-11840.   

3(i)  
     
   Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 17, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K
filed May 18, 2007  

3(ii)  
     
   Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Allstate Corporation effective September 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed
September 19, 2008  

4(iii)  
     
   The Allstate Corporation hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request, the instruments defining the rights of holders of each issue of long-term debt of it and its consolidated subsidiaries  

10.1  
     
   Credit Agreement dated May 8, 2007, among The Allstate Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company, as Borrowers; the Lenders party thereto, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as
Syndication Agent; Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Documentation Agents; Barclays Bank, PLC, Morgan Stanley Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Co-Agents; and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent;
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2007  

10.2  
     
   Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of May 22, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed May 27,
2008  

223  

10.3*  
     
   The Allstate Corporation Annual Covered Employee Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective November 13, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The Allstate Corporation
annual report on Form 10-K for 2007  

10.4*  
     
   The Allstate Corporation Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of November 13, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Allstate Corporation annual report
on Form 10-K for 2007  

10.5*  
     
   The Allstate Corporation Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective November 13, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to The Allstate Corporation annual
report on Form 10-K for 2007  

10.6*  
     
   The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated as of May 28, 2004, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The Allstate Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2004  

10.7*  
     
   The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective September 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to The Allstate Corporation current report on
Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.8*  
     
   Form of Executive Officer Option Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on
Form 8-K filed July 20, 2006  

10.9*  
     
   Form of Executive Officer Option Award Agreement dated May 15, 2001 under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to The Allstate Corporation
quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001  

10.10*  
     
   Form of Executive Officer Option Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on
Form 10-K for 2003  

10.11*  
     
   Form of Option Award Agreement for awards granted on or after September 13, 2008 under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Allstate
Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.12*  
     
   Form of Executive Officer Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to The Allstate Corporation annual report
on Form 10-K for 2005  

10.13*  
     
   Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for awards granted on or after September 13, 2008 under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The
Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.14*  
     
   Form of amended and restated Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for certain retirement eligible/retired employees with regards to awards outstanding on September 13, 2008 under The Allstate Corporation 2001
Equity Incentive Plan incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.15*  
     
   The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective February 20, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K
for 2006  

10.16*  
     
   Form of stock option under The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 1999  

10.17*  
     
   Form of stock option with reload under The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 1999  

10.18*  
     
   Allstate Insurance Company Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, as amended and restated effective December 31, 2008  

10.19*  
     
   Retirement Benefits of Edward M. Liddy, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2003  

10.20*  
     
   Form of Tier One Change of Control Employment Agreement  

10.21*  
     
   Form of Amended and Restated Tier Two Change of Control Employment Agreement to be effective as of December 31, 2008  

10.22*  
     
   Form of Termination of Change of Control Employment, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2007  

224  

Item 15.   (b)     

          The exhibits are listed in Item 15. (a)(3) above.    

    Item 15.    (c)     

          The financial statement schedules are listed in Item 15. (a)(2) above.   

  225  

SIGNATURES     

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION 
(Registrant)  

/s/ SAMUEL H. PILCH 

By:  
     
   Samuel H. Pilch 
(Controller)  

February 24, 2009  

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacity and on the
dates indicated.   

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ THOMAS J. WILSON 

Thomas J. Wilson  
     
   Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director (Principal Executive Officer)  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ DON CIVGIN 

Don Civgin  
      
    Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ F. DUANE ACKERMAN 

F. Duane Ackerman  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

Robert D. Beyer  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ W. JAMES FARRELL 

W. James Farrell  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ JACK M. GREENBERG 

Jack M. Greenberg  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ RONALD T. LEMAY 

Ronald T. LeMay  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ H. JOHN RILEY, JR. 

H. John Riley, Jr.  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ JOSHUA I. SMITH 

Joshua I. Smith  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ JUDITH A. SPRIESER 

Judith A. Sprieser  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

/s/ MARY ALICE TAYLOR 

Mary Alice Taylor  
      
    Director  

February 24, 2009  

226  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE I SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS 
OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES     

    DECEMBER 31, 2008     

S-1  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE II CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

See
accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-2  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED) CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION     

See
accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-3  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED) CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

See
accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-4  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED) CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION     

   1.     General     

          The financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 8.
The long-term debt presented in Note 11 "Capital Structure" are direct obligations of the Registrant, with the exception of the following obligations at December 31:   

2.     Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information     

          The Registrant paid $344 million, $313 million and $319 million of interest on debt in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

  S-5  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE III SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION     

(1)    A
single investment portfolio supports both Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments.    
  S-6  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE IV REINSURANCE     

(1)    No
reinsurance or coinsurance income was netted against premium ceded in 2008, 2007 or 2006.    
  S-7  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE V VALUATION ALLOWANCES AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS     

S-8  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    SCHEDULE VI SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONCERNING 
CONSOLIDATED PROPERTY-CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS     

S-9  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

   To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
The Allstate Corporation     

          We have audited the consolidated financial statements of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, and have issued our report thereon
dated February 25, 2009 (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change in the Company's method of accounting for uncertainty in income
taxes and accounting for deferred acquisition costs associated with internal replacements in 2007, and defined pension and other postretirement plans in 2006); such consolidated financial statements
and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference. Our audits also included the consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company
listed in the accompanying index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 25, 2009   

  S-10  

<EX-10.20>
 2
 a2189233zex-10_20.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.20

EXHIBIT 10.20   

SUPPLEMENTAL
RETIREMENT INCOME PLAN   

(As
Amended and Restated Effective December 31, 2008)  

SECTION 1   

Definitions   

1.1.              Beneficiary .  A Participant s  Beneficiary 
under the Plan means the person or persons entitled to benefits under the Retirement
Plan because of the Participant s death. 

1.2.              Board of Directors .   Board
of Directors  means the Board of Directors of Allstate Insurance Company. 

1.3.              Code .   Code  means the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, including regulations and other guidance of
general applicability promulgated thereunder. 

1.4.              Committee .   Committee  means the
Administrative Committee under the Retirement Plan. 

1.5.              Company .   Company  means Allstate
Insurance Company, an Illinois corporation. 

1.6.              Date of Death .   Date
of Death  means the date of the Participant s death. 

1.7.              Deferral Period Interest for Pre-409A
Benefits .   Deferral Period Interest for Pre-409A
Benefits  for the deferred portion of Pre-409A Benefits means the blended first
segment lump sum interest rate used to calculate the lump sum payment under the
Retirement Plan and will apply to the deferred portion of the Pre-409A Benefit
from the period beginning on the Payment Start Date and ending on the Plan
Payment Date for Pre-409A Benefits, or, if earlier, the date Pre-409A Benefits
are paid. 

1.8.              Effective Date .  The
Plan was established as of January 1, 1978 and restated as of January 1,
1996.  The  Effective Date  of the Plan
as amended and restated and set forth herein is December 31, 2008. 

1.9.              Eligible Annual Compensation .   Eligible
Annual Compensation  means a Participant s Annual Compensation as defined in
the Retirement Plan, but without regard to the applicable calendar year
limitation imposed by Section 401(a)(17) of the Code. 

1.10.            Employers .  The Company and each
subsidiary or affiliate of the Company which adopts the Retirement Plan is
referred to herein individually as an  Employer  and collectively as the  Employers.  

1.11.            ERISA .   ERISA  means the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 

1.12.            Hardship .  Hardship means an urgent
financial need that cannot be satisfied through other reasonable sources, as
determined by the Committee. 

1.13.            Participant .   Participant  means any
employee of an Employer who is participating in the Plan, as provided herein. 

1.14.            Payment Start Date .   Payment
Start Date  means the date on which a Participant s benefits are paid or
commence to be paid to him from the Retirement Plan 

1.15.            Plan .   Plan  means the Supplemental
Retirement Income Plan, as described herein. 

1.16.            Plan Payment Date for Pre-409A Benefits .   Plan
Payment Date for Pre-409A Benefits  means the January 1 coincident with or
next following the Payment Start Date on which the Retirement Plan becomes obligated
to pay a Participant s benefits. 

1.17.            Plan Payment Date for Post-409A Benefits .   Plan
Payment Date for Post-409A Benefits  for a participant who separates from
service prior to age 55 means the first business day of the calendar month
after the Participant s separation from service that is, or next follows, the
later of (i) the January 1 following the Participant s attainment of
age 55 or (ii) the date that is the six-month anniversary of the
separation from service.   Plan Payment
Date for Post-409A Benefits  for a participant who separates from service on or
after reaching age 55 means the first business day of the calendar month after
the Participant s separation from service that is, or next follows, the later
of (i) the January 1 following the Participant s separation from
service or (ii) the date that is the six-month anniversary of the
separation from service. If a Participant dies prior to a separation from
service or after a separation from service but before the Plan Payment Date for
Post-409A Benefits and such death occurs between January 1 and June 30,
the Post-409A Benefits payable to the Beneficiary shall be paid between July 1
and December 31 of the same calendar year as the Participant s death.  If a Participant dies prior to a separation
from service or after a separation from service but before the Plan Payment
Date for Post-409A Benefits and such death occurs between July 1 and December 31,
the Post-409A Benefits payable to the Beneficiary shall be paid between January 1
and December 31 of the calendar year next following the Participant s
death. 

For purposes of this subsection,  separation from
service  shall mean a termination of employment upon which a Participant ceases
performing services for all entities within the Company s controlled group, as
defined in Code Sections 414(b) and 414(c) ( i.e ., the
80-percent controlled group). 
Notwithstanding, a separation from service shall also include a
reduction in a Participant s rate of services to any such entity that is
reasonably anticipated to be a permanent reduction to a rate that is 20 percent
or less of the average rate of services performed by the Participant in the 36
months prior to such reduction.  If a
Participant ceases or reduces services under a bona fide leave of absence, a
separation from service occurs after the close of the 6-month anniversary of
the commencement of such leave; provided, however, that if the Participant has
a statutory or contractual right to reemployment, the separation from service
shall be delayed until the date that the Participant s right ceases or, if the
Participant resumes services, until the Participant subsequently separates from
service.  For purposes of determining
whether a Participant has a separation from service, services taken into account
shall include services performed for the Company as an independent contractor
but not services performed as a  

non-employee director
of any entity within the controlled group. 
Determination of whether a separation from service occurs shall be made
in a manner that is consistent with Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(h).  

1.18.            Pre-409A Benefit .   Pre-409A
Benefit  means the benefit that was fully earned and vested as of December 31,
2004, under the terms of the Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, including
any Deferral Period Interest for Pre-409A Benefits and, therefore, is not
subject to Code Section 409A. 

1.19.            Post-409A Benefit .   Post-409A
Benefit  means any benefit that is not a Pre-409A Benefit. 

1.20.            Required Distributions .   Required
Distributions  means distributions required to be made by the Retirement Plan
as defined in Section 401(a)(9) of the Code. 

1.21.            Retirement Plan .   Retirement
Plan  means the Allstate Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time. 

SECTION 2   

Introduction   

2.1.              Purpose .  The Employers maintain the
Retirement Plan, a defined benefit pension plan which is intended to meet the
applicable requirements of the Code.  The
Code places limitations and restrictions on the amount of benefits which may be
paid from, and the amount of compensation which may be taken into account in
calculating benefits under, the Retirement Plan.  The purpose of this Plan is to provide
benefits to Participants in the Plan which would otherwise be earned under but
may not be provided from the Retirement Plan because of these limitations and
restrictions of the Code.  It is intended
that this Plan only cover a select group of management or highly compensated
employees for purposes of ERISA.  The
Plan is intended to conform to the requirements of Code Section 409A with
respect to Post-409A Benefits. 

2.2.              Administration .  The
Plan will be administered by the Committee. 
The Committee has the discretionary authority to issue such rules as
it deems appropriate and to construe and interpret the provisions of the Plan
and make factual determinations thereunder, including the power to determine
the rights or eligibility of employees or Participants and any other persons,
and the amounts of their benefits under the Plan, and to remedy ambiguities,
inconsistencies or omissions.  Any
decision by the Committee hereunder or with respect hereto shall be final,
binding and conclusive on all Participants and all other persons
whomsoever.  The Committee shall
interpret the Plan in a manner that it determines does not result in taxation
of Participants under Code Section 409A. 

2.3.              Plan Benefits for Participants Whose Benefits
Commenced Prior to the Effective Date.   Pre-409A Benefits that
commenced prior to the Effective Date will, except as otherwise specifically
provided herein, be governed in all respects by the terms of the Plan as in
effect as of the date the Participant s benefits commenced.  The benefits provided hereunder with respect
to Participants whose benefits commence on or after the Effective 

Date will be governed in all respects by the terms of this Plan, which
have been amended to conform the requirements of Code Section 409A for
Post-409A Benefits.  

SECTION 3   

Participation
and Amount of Benefits   

3.1.              Eligibility .  Each employee of an Employer
who is a Participant in the Retirement Plan, who is entitled to receive final
average pay or cash balance benefits from the Retirement Plan, and whose
benefits thereunder have been limited by the Code as described in subsection
2.1 will become a Participant in this Plan. 
In the event of the death of such a Participant, his Beneficiary shall
be entitled to receive the Participant s benefits under the Plan.  Benefits payable under the Plan to a
Participant or his Beneficiary are determined in accordance with subsections
3.2 and 3.3.  Benefits under the Plan with
respect to a Participant or Beneficiary (in the event of a Participant s death)
may be comprised of both Pre-409A Benefits and Post-409A Benefits.  An employee agent eligible for a benefit
under the Agents Pension Plan is not eligible for benefits under this Plan. 

3.2.              Amount of Pre-409A Benefits .  The
amount of any benefits which otherwise would have been provided for a
Participant under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2004, but which
may not be paid from such plan because of the limitations and restrictions
imposed by the Code, shall be calculated as provided in this subsection 3.2 and
paid under this Plan as provided in Section 4 below.  Such benefits shall be equal to the excess
of:  (a) the amount of retirement
benefit as of December 31, 2004 which otherwise would have been provided
for the Participant (or in the event of his death, his Beneficiary) by the
Retirement Plan, determined without regard to the limitations of the Code and
by taking into account any compensation deferred on or before December 31,
2004 under The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan and The Allstate
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Employee Agents which is not
included as Annual Compensation (as defined in the Retirement Plan) under the
Retirement Plan; over (b) the actual amount of retirement benefit determined
for the Participant or his Beneficiary under the Retirement Plan as of December 31,
2004.  The Amount of Pre-409A Benefits
will be calculated on the Payment Start Date and will include Deferral Period
Interest for Pre-409A Benefits, as applicable. 

3.3              Amount of Post-409A Benefits .  The
amount of any benefits which otherwise would have been provided for a
Participant under the Retirement Plan after December 31, 2004, but which
may not be paid from such plan because of the limitations and restrictions
imposed by the Code, shall be calculated as provided in this subsection 3.3 and
paid under this Plan as provided in Section 4 below.  Such benefits shall be equal to the excess
of:  (a) the amount of retirement
benefit earned after December 31, 2004 which otherwise would have been
provided for the Participant (or in the event of his death, his Beneficiary) by
the Retirement Plan, determined without regard to the limitations of the Code
and by taking into account any compensation deferred after December 31,
2004 under The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan and The Allstate
Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Employee Agents which is not included
as Annual Compensation (as defined in the Retirement Plan) under the Retirement
Plan; over (b) the actual amount of retirement benefit determined for the
Participant or his Beneficiary under the Retirement Plan after December 31,
2004. 

The amount of any Post-409A Benefits paid to a Participant shall be
determined on the Plan Payment Date for Post-409A Benefits using the lump sum
death benefit calculation methodology described in Section E.6.(A)(1) of
the Retirement Plan for final average pay benefits or Section 3.8(A) of
the Retirement Plan for cash balance benefits, as applicable, and the lump sum methodology
and actuarial methods in effect under the Retirement Plan.  

The amount of any Post-409A Benefits paid to a Beneficiary shall be
determined on the death benefit payment date for Post-409A Benefits using the
lump sum death benefit provisions contained in Section E.6. of the
Retirement Plan for final average pay benefits or Section 3.8(A) of
the Retirement Plan for cash balance benefits, as applicable, and the lump sum
methodology and actuarial methods in effect under the Retirement Plan.  

SECTION 4   

Payment
of Benefits(1)   

4.1.              Form and Time of Payment for Pre-409A
Benefits and Post-409A Benefits .  All Pre-409A Benefits shall be paid in a single
lump sum on the Plan Payment Date for Pre-409A Benefits, except (i) upon
demonstrating a Hardship to the Committee, Pre-409A Benefits may be paid after
the Participant s Payment Start Date and before the January 1 first
following the day preceding the Participant s Plan Payment Date for Pre-409A
Benefits; or (ii) if a Participant or Beneficiary should die prior to
receipt of pre-409A Benefits, such benefits shall be paid in a lump sum as soon
as practicable thereafter to the estate of such Participant or Beneficiary. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, Participants receiving Required Distributions from the Pension
Plan will receive their Pre-409A Benefits at the same time and in the same form
as their Retirement Plan benefits.  Notwithstanding,
the foregoing, Participants receiving Required Distributions from the
Retirement Plan will receive their Pre-409A Benefits at the same time and in
the same form as their Retirement Plan Benefits.  All Post-409A Benefits shall be paid in a
single lump sum on the Plan Payment Date for Post-409A Benefits. 

4.2.              Facility of Payment .  Any
amount payable under the Plan to a person under legal disability or who, in the
judgment of the Committee, is unable to properly manage his financial affairs,
may be paid to such person s legal representative, or may be applied for the
benefit of such person in any manner selected by the Committee. 

4.3.              Review of Benefit Determinations .  The
Committee will provide notice in writing to any Participant or Beneficiary
whose claim for benefits under the Plan is denied and the Committee shall
afford such Participant or Beneficiary a full and fair review of its decision
if so requested. 

4.4.              Payment and Funding of Benefits . 
Amounts payable under the Plan to or on account of a Participant shall
be paid directly by the Employers, and shall be provided from the 

(1) See Appendix A for Payment of Benefit information for
Participants with a Plan Payment Date on or before January 1, 1996 or for
Participants who retired under the Company s 1994 Special Retirement
Opportunity.  

general assets of the Employers. 
No assets of the Employers shall be set aside solely for the purpose of
providing benefits hereunder, and the Employers  obligation to pay such
benefits is not limited to any particular assets of the Employer.  Benefits under the Plan are not funded, the
Employers  obligation to pay such benefits is merely a contractual obligation,
and a Participant or Beneficiary shall be treated as a general creditor of the
Employers with respect to any benefits payable under the Plan.  

SECTION 5   

Miscellaneous   

5.1.              Action by Company .  Any
action required or permitted to be taken by the Company under the Plan shall be
by resolution of its Board of Directors, by resolution of a duly authorized
committee of its Board of Directors, or by a person or persons authorized by
resolution of its Board of Directors or such committee. 

5.2.              Gender and Number . 
Where the context admits, words in the masculine gender shall include
the feminine and neuter genders, the singular shall include the plural, and
plural shall include the singular. 

5.3.              Controlling Law . 
Except to the extent superseded by laws of the United States, the laws
of Illinois shall be controlling in all matters relating to the Plan. 

5.4.              Employment Rights .  The
Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, and participation in the
Plan will not give any employee the right to be retained in the employ of an
Employer, nor any right or claim to any benefit under the Plan, unless such
right or claim has specifically accrued under the terms of the Plan. 

5.5.              Interests Not Transferable .  The
interests of persons entitled to benefits under the Plan are not subject to
their debts or other obligations and, except as may be required by the tax
withholding provisions of the Code or any state s income tax act, may not be
voluntarily or involuntarily sold, transferred, alienated, assigned or
encumbered. 

5.6.              Successors .  The Plan is binding on all
persons entitled to benefits hereunder and their respective heirs and legal
representatives, and on the Employers and their successors and assigns. 

SECTION 6   

Amendment
and Termination   

The Company reserves the right at any time and from time to time to
amend or terminate the Plan in accordance with the procedures set forth in
subsection 5.1.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no amendment or termination of this Plan with respect to Post-409
Benefits shall be made in accordance with this Section 6 unless such
termination or amendment complies with Code Section 409A.  

Appendix A  

Payment of Benefits  

  Plan Payment Date on or Before January 1, 1996 or Special
Retirement Opportunity Participants  

A.1              Normal Form of Payment for Pre-409A
Benefits .  Except as provided in subsection 4.2, for
Participants with a plan payment date on or before January 1, 1996 or
Participants who retired under the Company s 1994 Special Retirement
Opportunity, benefits under the Plan shall be paid to a Participant (or in the
case of his death, to his Beneficiary) monthly, commencing as of the earliest
of (i) the Participant s Payment Start Date or (ii) the date 60 days
following Participant s Date of Death (or the date the Committee receives
notification of the Participant s death, if more than 7 days after Participant s
Date of Death) and continuing during his lifetime (or the lifetime of his
Beneficiary), with the last payment to be made for the month in which the
Participant s or Beneficiary s death occurs. 
For purposes of this Appendix A,  plan payment date  means the day
following the date on which the Retirement Plan becomes obligated to pay a
Participant s benefits. 

A.2.             Optional Forms of Payment for Pre-409A
Benefits .  In lieu of the form and amount of benefit
specified in subsection A.1, a Participant with a plan payment date on or
before January 1, 1996 or who retired under the Company s 1994 Special
Retirement Opportunity (or in the case of his death, his Beneficiary) may elect
(in accordance with subsection A.4) a benefit in such other form as then would
be available to such Participant or Beneficiary under the Retirement Plan.  The actuarial rates, factors and assumptions
used to determine the amount of optional forms of benefit under the Retirement
Plan shall be used to calculate the amount of optional forms of payment under
this Plan. 

A.3.             Time of Payment for Pre-409A Benefits .  For
Participants with a Plan Payment Date on or before January 1, 1996 or
Participants who retired under the Company s 1994 Special Retirement
Opportunity, benefits under the Plan shall be paid as of the earliest of (i) the
Participant s Payment Start Date or (ii) the date 60 days following
Participant s Date of Death (or the date the Committee receives notification of
the Participant s death, if more than 7 days after Participant s Date of
Death).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a
Participant with a Plan Payment Date on or before January 1, 1996 or who
retired under the Company s 1994 Special Retirement Opportunity (or in the case
of his death, his Beneficiary) may elect (in accordance with subsection A.4) to
defer payment of any lump sum benefits (elected under subsection A.2, if
available) to the first or second January 1 next following his Plan
Payment Date.  If a Participant or
Beneficiary elects to defer payment of benefits under this subsection A.3,
simple interest (at the post-1990 PBGC rate used to calculate the participant s
lump sum, or such other rate as may be used by the Retirement Plan) shall be
added to such benefits, to the date of payment. 
If a Participant or Beneficiary who elects to defer payment of benefits
under this subsection 4.3 should die prior to receipt of payment, such benefits
shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable thereafter to the estate of
such Participant or Beneficiary. 

A.4.             Pre-409A Benefit Payment Elections .  For
Participants with a plan payment date on or before January 1, 1996 or
Participants who retired under the Company s 1994 Special Retirement
Opportunity, except as otherwise provided below, elections of an optional form
of payment under subsection 4.2 and elections to defer payment under subsection 

4.4 shall be irrevocable, must be in writing, and must be filed with
the Committee at least 30 days prior to the Participant s plan payment date or,
in the case of an election by a Beneficiary, at any time prior to the date 60
days following Participant s Date of Death (or the date the Committee receives
notification of the Participant s death, if more than 7 days after Participant s
Date of Death).  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, (i) if a Participant is retiring by mutual agreement with the
Company in less than 30 days, and the date of the Participant s retirement is
outside his control, the Participant s election may be made at any time prior
to his plan payment date; and (ii) elections by a Participant who retires
after December 31, 1994 under the Company s 1994 Special Retirement
Opportunity must be filed with the Committee on or before the December 31
of the year prior to their plan payment date for Pre-409A Benefits.  

A.5.             Special Election to Commute Pre-409A Benefit
Payments .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the
Plan, a Participant or Beneficiary who is receiving periodic benefit payments
under the Plan on account of a Participant who terminated employment prior to October 1,
1994 may elect (as provided below) to have the remaining unpaid balance of such
payments as of December 30, 1994 paid in a lump sum as soon as
practicable after January 1, 1995. 
Each election under this subsection A.5 shall be irrevocable, must be in
writing, and must be filed with the Committee on or before December 31,
1994.  The actuarial rates, factors and
assumptions used to determine lump sum payments under the Retirement Plan as of
December 30, 1994 shall be used to calculate lump sum payments under this
subsection A.5. 

</EX-10.20>

<EX-10.22>
 3
 a2189233zex-10_22.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.22

EXHIBIT
10.22   

[AMENDED AND
RESTATED](1)  

CHANGE OF CONTROL
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

AMONG  

THE ALLSTATE
CORPORATION,  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE
COMPANY  

AND  

[INSERT NAME OF EXECUTIVE]  

  (Tier One)  

(1) This text is to
be used in Agreements originally entered into prior to November 11, 2008,
and being amended and restated on or after this date.  

TABLE OF
CONTENTS   

i  

ii  

THE ALLSTATE
CORPORATION  

[AMENDED AND
RESTATED](2) CHANGE OF CONTROL EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

[THIS AGREEMENT dated as of
             ,
200  (the   Agreement Date  ) is made by and among The Allstate
Corporation, a Delaware corporation (  Allstate  ), the Allstate Insurance
Company, an Illinois insurance corporation (  AIC  ), and                           
(  Executive  ).](3)  

[The Allstate Corporation, a Delaware corporation (  Allstate  ),
Allstate Insurance Company, an Illinois insurance company (  AIC  ), and                           
(  Executive  ) are parties to a Change of Control Employment Agreement
(the  Original Agreement ) originally entered into on
                    (the  Agreement Date ).    The Board of Directors approved the amendment and
restatement of the Original Agreement on November 13, 2007 and the further
amendment and restatement in the form of this Amended and Restated Agreement on
November 11, 2008, such Amended and Restated Agreement is entered into, to
be effective as of                          
                                            . (4) 

RECITALS  

On February 12, 1999
Allstate originally adopted Change of Control Employment Agreements, and on November 13,
2007 and November 11, 2008 approved certain changes to the terms of such
Agreements.  Allstate has determined that
it is in the best interests of Allstate and its stockholders to assure that the
Company will have the continued service of Executive.  Allstate also believes it is imperative to
reduce the distraction of Executive that would result from the personal
uncertainties caused by a pending or threatened change of control of Allstate,
to encourage Executive s full attention and dedication to the Company, and to
provide Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a change of
control that will satisfy the expectations of Executive and be competitive with
those of similarly situated corporations. 
This Agreement is intended to accomplish these objectives.  

ARTICLE I. 
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS  

As used in this Agreement, the terms specified below shall have the
following meanings:  

1.1             Accrued
Annual Bonus   means the amount of any Annual Bonus earned and due to be
paid but not yet paid to Executive as of the Executive s Termination Date,
other than amounts that Executive has elected to defer.  

(2) This text is to
be used in Agreements originally entered into prior to November 11, 2008,
and being amended and restated on or after this date.  

  (3) This text is to be used in Agreements entered
into on or after November 11, 2008.  

  (4) This text is to be used in Agreements
originally entered into prior to November 11, 2008, and being amended and
restated on or after this date.  

1.2                                      Accrued
Base Salary   means the amount of Executive s Base Salary that is accrued
but unpaid as of the Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that Executive
has elected to defer. 

1.3                                      Accrued
LTIP Bonus   means the amount of any LTIP Bonus earned and due to be paid
but not yet paid to Executive as of the Executive s Termination Date, other
than amounts that Executive has elected to defer. 

1.4                                      Accrued
Obligations   means, as of any date, the sum of Executive s Accrued Base
Salary, Accrued Annual Bonus, Accrued LTIP Bonus, any accrued but unpaid
vacation pay, and any other amounts and benefits that are then due to be paid
or provided to Executive by the Company (other than pursuant to
Sections 2.4 or 4.1(b) or any defined benefit or defined contribution
plan of the Company, whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code), but have not yet been paid or provided (as applicable). 

1.5                                      Agreement
Date      see the introductory
paragraph of this Agreement. 

1.6                                      Agreement
Term   means the period commencing on the Agreement Date and ending on the
third anniversary of the Agreement Date or, if later, such later date to which
the Agreement Term is extended pursuant to the following sentence.  Commencing on the second anniversary of the
Agreement Date, the Agreement Term shall automatically be extended each day by
one day to create a new one-year term until, at any time after the second
anniversary of the Agreement Date, the Company delivers written notice (an   Expiration
Notice  ) to Executive that the Agreement shall expire on a date specified
in the Expiration Notice (the   Expiration Date  ) that is not less than
12 months after the date the Expiration Notice is delivered to Executive;
provided, however, that if an Effective Date or an Imminent Control Change Date
occurs before the Expiration Date specified in the Expiration Notice, then such
Expiration Notice shall be void and of no further effect.    Imminent Control Change Date   means (i) any
date on which a proposal or offer for a Change of Control is presented to
Allstate s stockholders generally or to any of Allstate s directors or
executive officers or is publicly announced (whether by advertisement, press
release, press interview, public statement, SEC filing or otherwise) or (ii) any
subsequent date as of which such proposal or offer for a Change of Control
remains effective and has not expired or been revoked. 

1.7                                      AIC  
  see the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. 

1.8                                      Allstate  
  see the introductory paragraph of this Agreement. 

1.9                                      Annual
Bonus     see Section 2.2(b). 

1.10                                Annual
Performance Period     see Section 2.2(b). 

1.11                                Article  
means an article of this Agreement. 

1.12                                Base
Salary     see Section 2.2(a). 

1.13                                Beneficiary  
  see Section 10.3. 

2  

1.14                                Board  
means the Board of Directors of Allstate or, from and after the Effective Date
of a Change of Control that gives rise to a Surviving Corporation, the Board of
Directors of such Surviving Corporation. 

1.15                                Bonus
Plan     see Section 2.2(b). 

1.16                                Cause  
  see Section 3.3(b). 

1.17                                CEO  
means Chief Executive Officer. 

1.18                                Change
of Control   means, except as otherwise provided at the end of this Section,
the occurrence of any one or more of the following: 

(a)                                     ( Voting Power)  any Person or group (as such term is defined
in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)),
other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of
Allstate or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires or has acquired during the
12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such
Person of Persons, ownership of stock of Allstate possessing 30% or more of the
combined voting power of all Voting Securities of Allstate (such a Person or
group that is not a Similarly Owned Company (as defined below), a   More than
30% Owner  ), except that no Change of Control shall be deemed to have
occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a corporation with respect to
which both more than 70% of the common stock of such corporation and Voting
Securities representing more than 70% of the combined voting power of the
Voting Securities of such corporation are then owned, directly or indirectly,
by the Persons who were the direct or indirect owners of the common stock and
Voting Securities of Allstate immediately before such acquisition in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately before such
acquisition, of the common stock and Voting Securities of Allstate, as the case
may be (a   Similarly Owned Company   or 

(b)                                     (Majority Ownership)  any Person or group (as such term is
defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)),
other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of
Allstate or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires ownership of more than 50% of the
voting power of all Voting Securities of Allstate or of the total fair market
value of the stock of Allstate (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly
Owned Company, a   Majority Owner  ), except that no Change of Control
shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a  Similarly
Owned Company ; or 

(c)                                      (Board Composition)  a majority of the members of the Board is
replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election
is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board before the date of
the appointment or election (  Board Turnover   or 

(d)                                     (Reorganization)  the consummation of a merger, reorganization,
consolidation, or similar transaction, or of a plan or agreement for the
sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the consolidated
assets of Allstate, or a plan of liquidation of Allstate (any of the foregoing,
a   Reorganization Transaction  ) that, does not qualify as an Exempt
Reorganization Transaction. 

3  

Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary: (i) no
transaction or event shall constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this
Agreement unless the transaction or event constituting the Change of Control
also constitutes a change in the ownership of a corporation (as defined in
Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)), a change in effective
control of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi))
or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a
corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii));
and (ii)  no sale or
disposition of one or more Subsidiaries ( Sale Subsidiary ) or the assets
thereof shall constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement if
the investments in and advances by Allstate and its Subsidiaries (other than
the Sale Subsidiaries) to such Sale Subsidiary as of immediately prior to the
sale or disposition determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles ( GAAP ) (but after intercompany eliminations and net of the effect
of intercompany reinsurance) are less than 51% of the Consolidated Total
Shareholders  Equity of Allstate as of immediately prior to the sale or
disposition.  Consolidated Total
Shareholders  Equity means, at any date , the total shareholders  equity of Allstate and
its Subsidiaries at such date, as reported in the consolidated financial
statements prepared in accordance with GAAP . 

1.19                                Code  
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  Any reference to any section of the Code
shall also refer to any successor provision. 

1.20                                Company  
means Allstate, AIC and each of Allstate s other Subsidiaries. 

1.21                                Company
Certificate     see Section 5.1(b). 

1.22                                Company
Counsel Opinion     see Section 5.5. 

1.23                                Competitive
Business   means as of any date (including during the one-year period
commencing on the Termination Date) any corporation or other Person (and any
branch, office or operation thereof) that engages in, or proposes to engage in: 

(a)                                     the
underwriting, reinsurance, marketing or sale of (i) any form of insurance
of any kind that the Company as of such date does, or proposes to, underwrite,
reinsure, market or sell (any such form of insurance, an   Allstate Insurance
Product  ) or (ii) any other form of insurance that is marketed or sold
in competition with any Allstate Insurance Product, or 

(b)                                    any
other business that as of such date is a direct and material competitor of the
Company; 

and that is located (i) anywhere in the United States, or (ii) anywhere
outside of the United States where the Company is then engaged in, or proposes
to engage in, any of such activities.  

1.24                                Consummation
Date   means the date on which a Reorganization Transaction is consummated. 

1.25                                Disability  
  see Section 3.1(b). 

1.26                                Disability
Effective Date     see Section 3.1. 

4  

1.27                                Effective
Date   means the date on which a Change of Control first occurs during the
Agreement Term. 

1.28                                Exchange
Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

1.29                                Excise
Taxes     see Section 5.1. 

1.30                                Executive
Counsel Opinion     see Section 5.5. 

1.31                                Executive s
Gross-Up Determination     see Section 5.2(a). 

1.32                                Exempt
Reorganization Transaction   means a Reorganization Transaction that fails
to result in (a) any Person or group (as
such term is defined in Treasury
Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)) becoming a More than 30%
Owner or a Majority Owner, (b) Board Turnover, or (c) a sale or
disposition to any Person or group (as
such term is defined in Treasury
Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)) of the assets of Allstate
that have a total Gross Fair Market Value (as defined below) equal to at least
forty percent (40%) of the total Gross Fair Market Value of all of the assets
of Allstate immediately before such transaction.    Gross Fair Market Value   means the
value of the assets of Allstate, or the value of the assets being disposed of,
determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets. 

1.33                                Good
Reason     see Section 3.4(b). 

1.34                                Gross-up
Multiple     see Section 5.4. 

1.35                                Gross-up
Payment     see Section 5.1. 

1.36                                including  
means including without limitation. 

1.37                                IRS  
means the Internal Revenue Service. 

1.38                                IRS
Claim     see Section 5.6. 

1.39                                Legal
and Other Expenses     see Section 6.1(a). 

1.40                                LTIP  
means the Allstate Long-Term Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (or any
successor plan). 

1.41                                LTIP
Award   means an incentive compensation opportunity granted under the LTIP. 

1.42                                LTIP
Bonus   means the amount paid or earned in respect of an LTIP Award. 

1.43                                LTIP
Performance Period   means any performance period designated in accordance
with any LTIP approved by the Board or any committee of the Board. 

1.44                                LTIP
Target Award   means, in respect of any LTIP Award, the amount that
Executive would have been entitled to receive for the LTIP Performance Period
corresponding to  

5  

such LTIP Award if the performance goals established pursuant to such
LTIP Award were achieved at the 100% level as of the end of the LTIP Performance
Period.  

1.45                                Lump
Sum Value   of an annuity payable pursuant to a defined benefit plan means,
as of a specified date, the present value of such annuity, as determined, as of
such date, under generally accepted actuarial principles using (i) the applicable
interest rate, mortality tables and other methods and assumptions under Code Section 417(e) as
published by the IRS and used for determining the value of an immediate annuity
on the Termination Date or (ii) if such interest rate and mortality assumptions
are no longer published by the IRS, the interest rate and mortality assumptions
determined in a manner as similar as practicable to the manner by which the
Code Section 417(e) interest rate and mortality assumptions were
determined immediately prior to the IRS s cessation of publication of such
assumptions; provided, however, that if such defined benefit plan provides for
a lump sum distribution and such lump-sum distribution either (x) is the
only payment method available under such plan or (y) provides for a
greater amount than the Lump Sum Value of the Maximum Annuity available under
such plan, then  Lump Sum Value  shall mean such lump sum amount. 

1.46                                Maximum
Annuity   means, in respect of a defined benefit plan (whether or not
qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code), an annuity computed in
whatever manner permitted under such plan (including frequency of annuity
payments, attained age (whether determined as of a current date or as of a
future date upon the commencement of annuity payments), and nature of surviving
spouse benefits, if any) that yields the greatest Lump Sum Value. 

1.47                               More
than 30 % Owner     see paragraph (a) of the definition of  Change of
Control.  

1.48                                Notice
of Consideration     see Section 3.3(c). 

1.49                                Non-Qualified
Plan     see Section 2.4. 

1.50                                Notice
of Termination   means a written notice given in accordance with Section 10.8
that sets forth (i) the specific termination provision in this Agreement
relied on by the party giving such notice, (ii) in reasonable detail the
specific facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for such
Termination of Employment, and (iii) if the Termination Date is other than
the date of receipt of such Notice of Termination, the Termination Date. 

1.51                                Person  
means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited
liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, association,
corporation, institution, public benefit corporation, entity or government
instrumentality, division, agency, body or department. 

1.52                                Plans  
means plans, programs, or Policies of the Company. 

1.53                                Policies  
means policies, practices or procedures of the Company. 

1.54                                Post-Change
Period   means the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the
second anniversary of the Effective Date. 

6  

1.55           Potential
Parachute Payments     see Section 5.1.  

1.56           Pro-rata
Annual Bonus   means, in respect of the Company s fiscal year during which
the Termination Date occurs, an amount equal to the product of Executive s
Target Annual Bonus (determined as of the Termination Date) multiplied by a
fraction, the numerator of which equals the number of days from and including
the first day of such fiscal year through and including the Termination Date,
and the denominator of which equals 365.  

1.57           Pro-rata
LTIP Bonus   means an amount equal to the sum of each of the following
amounts:  for each LTIP Performance
Period that is in effect as of a Termination Date, Executive s LTIP Target
Award for such LTIP Performance Period multiplied by a fraction, the numerator
of which equals the number of days from and including the beginning of such
LTIP Performance Period through and including the Termination Date, and the
denominator of which equals the aggregate number of days in such LTIP
Performance Period.  

1.58           Refund
Claim     see Section 5.6.  

1.59           Reorganization
Transaction     see clause (d) of the definition of  Change of Control.   

1.60           Restricted
Shares   means shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar
awards.  

1.61           SEC  
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

1.62           Section  
means, unless the context otherwise requires, a section of this Agreement.  

1.63           SERP  
means a supplemental executive retirement Plan that is a Non-Qualified Plan.  

1.64           Stock
Options   means stock options, stock appreciation rights (including limited
stock appreciation rights), or similar awards.  

1.65           Subsidiary  
means any corporation, business trust, limited liability company or partnership
with respect to which Allstate owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities
representing more than 50% of the aggregate voting power of the
then-outstanding Voting Securities.  

1.66           Surviving
Corporation   means the corporation resulting from a Reorganization
Transaction or, if securities representing at least 50% of the aggregate Voting
Power of such resulting corporation are directly or indirectly owned by another
corporation, such other corporation.  

1.67           Target
Annual Bonus   as of any date means the amount equal to the product of Base
Salary determined as of such date multiplied by the percentage of such Base
Salary to which Executive would have been entitled immediately prior to such
date under any Bonus Plan for the Annual Performance Period for which the
Annual Bonus is awarded if the performance  

7  

goals established pursuant to such Bonus Plan were achieved at the 100%
level as of the end of the Annual Performance Period.  

1.68           Taxes  
means federal, state, local and other income, employment and other taxes.  

1.69           Termination
Date   means the date of the receipt of the Notice of Termination by
Executive (if such Notice is given by the Company) or by the Company (if such
Notice is given by Executive), or any later date, not more than 15 days after
the giving of such Notice, specified in such Notice; provided, however, that:  

(a)             if Executive s employment is
terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Termination Date shall be the
date of Executive s death or the Disability Effective Date (as defined in Section 3.1(a)),
as applicable; and  

(b)             if no Notice of Termination is
given, the Termination Date shall be the last date on which Executive is
employed by the Company.  

1.70           Termination
of Employment   means any termination of Executive s employment with the
Company, whether such occurs by reason of (a) the initiative of any
Company or Executive or (b) the death of Executive; provided that such
termination is also a  separation from service  within the meaning of Treasury
Regulation 1.409A-1(h).  

1.71           Voting
Securities   of a corporation means securities of such corporation that are
entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such corporation.  

ARTICLE II.  

  POST-CHANGE PERIOD  

2.1            Position
and Duties .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period, (x) Executive s
position (including offices, titles, reporting requirements and
responsibilities), authority and duties shall be at least commensurate in all
material respects with the most significant of those held, exercised and
assigned at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective
Date and (y) Executive s services shall be performed at the location where
Executive was employed immediately before the Effective Date or any other
location which does not constitute a material geographic change from the former
location.  

(b)           During the Post-Change Period (except
during any periods of vacation to which Executive is entitled and any
authorized sick, disability or other leave of absence), Executive shall devote
Executive s full attention and time to the business and affairs of the Company
and, to the extent necessary to discharge the duties assigned to Executive in
accordance with this Agreement, to use Executive s best efforts to perform such
duties.  During the Post-Change Period,
Executive may (i) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or
committees, (ii) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach
at educational institutions and (iii) manage personal investments, so long
as such activities  

8  

are consistent with the Policies of the Company at the
Effective Date and do not significantly interfere with the performance of
Executive s duties under this Agreement. 
To the extent that any such activities have been conducted by Executive
immediately prior to the Effective Date and were consistent with the Policies
of the Company at the Effective Date, the continued conduct of such activities
(or activities similar in nature and scope) after the Effective Date shall not
be deemed to interfere with the performance of Executive s duties under this
Agreement.  

2.2            Compensation .  

(a)            Base Salary .  During the Post-Change Period, the Company
shall pay or cause to be paid to Executive an annual base salary in cash, which
shall be paid in a manner consistent with the Company s payroll practices in
effect immediately before the Effective Date, at an annual rate not less than
12 times the highest monthly base salary paid or payable to Executive by the
Company in respect of the 12-month period immediately before the Effective Date
(such annual rate salary, the   Base Salary  ).  During the Post-Change Period, the Base
Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time
and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in
base salary awarded to other peer executives of the Company.  Any increase in Base Salary shall not limit
or reduce any other obligation of the Company to Executive under this
Agreement.  After any such increase, the
Base Salary shall not be reduced and  Base Salary  shall thereafter refer to
the increased amount.  

(b)            Annual Bonus .  The Company shall also pay or cause to be
paid to Executive a bonus (the   Annual Bonus  ), which shall be not less
than the Target Annual Bonus determined as of the Effective Date, for each
Annual Performance Period that ends during the Post-Change Period.    Annual Performance Period   means each
period designated in accordance with any annual bonus arrangement or Plan (a   Bonus
Plan  ) that is based on performance and approved by the Board or any
committee of the Board, or in the absence of any Bonus Plan or any such
designated period of time, each calendar year.  

(c)            LTIP Bonus .  The Company shall also:  

(i)              pay
or cause to be paid to Executive an LTIP Bonus equal to the LTIP Target Award
for each LTIP Award for which an LTIP Performance Period is in effect as of the
Effective Date; and  

(ii)             throughout
the Post-Change Period, grant LTIP Awards to Executive as follows:  

(1)             LTIP Awards shall
be granted no less frequently than is contemplated by the terms of the LTIP and
the Company s practices thereunder, as such terms and practices are in effect
immediately prior to the Effective Date;  

(2)             each such LTIP
Award shall provide for the payment of a percentage of Executive s Base Salary
in effect at the beginning of the  

9  

Performance
Period applicable to such LTIP Award that is no less than the average of the
Target LTIP Percentages (as defined below) for all of Executive s LTIP Awards
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Date; and  

(3)           the target
performance goals established for each such LTIP Award shall be substantially
comparable to the target performance goals under Executive s LTIP Awards
outstanding on the Effective Date;  

Target LTIP Percentage   means, in respect of
any LTIP Award, the percentage of Executive s Base Salary (determined as of the
beginning of the applicable LTIP Performance Period) that Executive would be
entitled to receive after the completion of the applicable LTIP Performance
Period if the performance goals applicable to such LTIP Award as of the date
immediately prior to the Effective Date were achieved at the 100% level.  

(d)            Incentive, Savings and Retirement
Plans .  Executive shall also be
entitled to participate during the Post-Change Period in all cash and equity
incentive (including long-term incentives), savings and retirement Plans
applicable to other peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall such
Plans provide Executive with incentive (including long-term incentives),
savings and retirement benefits during the Post-Change Period that are
materially less valuable or have terms materially less favorable, in the
aggregate, than the most valuable and favorable of those provided by the
Company for Executive under such Plans as in effect at any time during the
90-day period immediately before the Effective Date.  

(e)            Welfare Benefit Plans .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive and
Executive s family shall be eligible to participate in, and receive all
benefits under, welfare benefit Plans provided by the Company (including
medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary continuance, individual life,
group life, dependent life, accidental death and travel accident insurance Plans)
and applicable to other peer executives of the Company and their families, but
in no event shall such Plans provide benefits during the Post-Change Period
that are materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable
of those provided to Executive under such Plans as in effect at any time during
the 90-day period immediately before the Effective Date.  

(f)             Fringe Benefits .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to fringe benefits in accordance with the most favorable
Plans applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall such
Plans provide fringe benefits that are materially less favorable, in the
aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by the Company to
Executive under such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day period
immediately before the Effective Date.  

(g)            Expenses .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to prompt reimbursement of all reasonable employment-related
expenses incurred by Executive upon the Company s receipt of accountings in
accordance with the most favorable Policies applicable to peer executives of
the Company, but in no event shall  

10  

such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate,
than the most favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under
such Policies in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before
the Effective Date.  

(h)            Office and Support Staff .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to an office or offices of a size and with furnishings and
other appointments, and to secretarial and other assistance in accordance with
the most favorable Policies applicable to peer executives of the Company, but
in no event shall such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate,
than the most favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under
such Policies in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before
the Effective Date.  

(i)             Vacation .  During the Post-Change Period, Executive
shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable
Policies applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall
such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most
favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under such Policies in
effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective
Date.  

2.3            Stock Incentive Awards .  

(a)             On
the Effective Date of a Change of Control, (i) all of Executive s unvested
Stock Options then outstanding (whether granted before or after the Agreement
Date) shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable, and (ii) all
of Executive s Restricted Shares then outstanding shall immediately become fully
vested and nonforfeitable.  

(b)             [This
Section 2.3 amends all award agreements dated as of any date before the
Agreement Date.  Accordingly, all
provisions of such award agreements relating to a change of control of the
Company, including all grants of limited stock appreciation rights, are hereby
cancelled (if not previously cancelled), effective as of the Agreement
Date.](5)  

2.4            Unfunded Deferred Compensation .  On the Effective Date of a Change of Control,
Executive shall become fully vested in all benefits previously accrued under
any deferred compensation Plan (including a SERP) that is not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code (a   Non-Qualified Plan  ). 
Within five business days after the Effective Date of a Change of
Control, the Company shall pay to Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to:  

(a)           the sum of the Lump-Sum Values of all
Maximum Annuities that are payable pursuant to all defined benefit
Non-Qualified Plans, plus  

(b)           the sum of Executive s account
balances under all defined contribution Non-Qualified Plans.  

(5) This text
is to be used in Agreements originally entered into prior to November 11,
2008, and being amended and restated on or after this date.  

11  

To the extent that, if, for any reason, any portion of such
Non-Qualified Plan benefit is not so paid, the Company shall pay Executive in
lieu thereof a lump-sum cash payment equal to such unpaid portion within the
five-business day period specified in the preceding sentence.  

ARTICLE III.  

  TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

3.1            Disability .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period, the
Company may terminate Executive s employment because of Executive s Disability
by giving Executive or his legal representative, as applicable, (i) written
notice in accordance with Section 10.8 of the Company s intention to
terminate Executive s employment pursuant to this Section and (ii) a
certification of Executive s Disability by a physician selected by the Company
or its insurers, subject to the consent of Executive or Executive s legal
representative, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.  Executive s employment shall
terminate effective on the 30th day (the   Disability Effective Date  )
after Executive s receipt of such notice unless, before the Disability
Effective Date, Executive shall have resumed the full-time performance of
Executive s duties.  

(b)             Disability   means any
medically determinable physical or mental impairment of an Executive that:  

(i)            has lasted for a continuous period
of not less than (x) six months or (y) such longer period, if any,
that is available to Executive under the Company s Policies relating to the
continuation of employee status after the onset of disability, as such Policies
are in effect when Disability is determined, but in no event shall such
Policies be materially less favorable to the Executive than the most favorable
of such Policies in effect for peer executives at any time during the 90-day
period immediately before the Effective Date,  

(ii)           can be expected to be permanent or of
indefinite duration, and  

(iii)          renders Executive unable to perform
the duties required under this Agreement.  

3.2            Death .  Executive s employment shall terminate
automatically upon Executive s death during the Post-Change Period.  

3.3            Cause .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period, the
Company may terminate Executive s employment for Cause solely in accordance
with all of the substantive and procedural provisions of this Section.  

(b)             Cause   means any one or more
of the following:  

12  

(i)            Executive s
conviction of a felony or other crime involving fraud, dishonesty or moral
turpitude;  

(ii)           Executive s willful
or reckless material misconduct in the performance of Executive s duties;  

(iii)          Executive s
habitual neglect of duties; or  

(iv)          Executive s willful
or intentional breach of this Agreement;  

provided, however,
that for purposes of clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv), Cause shall not include any
one or more of the following:  

(1)           bad judgment or
negligence;  

(2)           any act or omission
believed by Executive in good faith to have been in or not opposed to the
interest of the Company (without intent of Executive to gain, directly or
indirectly, a profit to which Executive was not legally entitled);  

(3)           any act or omission
with respect to which a determination could properly have been made by the
Board that Executive had satisfied the applicable standard of conduct for
indemnification or reimbursement under Allstate s by-laws, any applicable
indemnification agreement, or applicable law, in each case as in effect at the
time of such act or omission; or  

(4)           any act or omission
with respect to which Executive receives a Notice of Consideration (as defined
below) more than six months after the earliest date on which any member of the
Board, not a party to the act or omission, knew or should have known of such
act or omission; and  

further provided,
that if a breach of this Agreement involved an act or omission based on
Executive s good faith and reasonable belief that Executive s act or omission
was in the best interests of the Company or was required by applicable law or
administrative regulation, such breach shall not constitute Cause unless the
Company gives Executive written notice of such breach that specifically refers
to this Section and, within 30 days after such notice is given, Executive
fails to cure such breach to the fullest extent that it is curable.  

(c)           The Company shall strictly observe
each of the following procedures in connection with any Termination of
Employment for Cause:  

(i)            A meeting of the Board shall be
called for the stated purpose of determining whether Executive s acts or
omissions satisfy the requirements of Section 3.3(b) and, if so,
whether to terminate Executive s employment for Cause.  

13  

(ii)           Not less than 30 days prior to the
date of such meeting, the Company shall provide Executive and each member of
the Board written notice (a   Notice of Consideration  ) of (x) a detailed
description of the acts or omissions alleged to constitute Cause, (y) the
date, time and location of such meeting of the Board, and (z) Executive s
rights under clause (iii) below.  

(iii)          Executive shall have the opportunity
to appear before the Board in person and, at Executive s option, with legal
counsel, and/or to present to the Board a written response to the Notice of
Consideration.  

(iv)          Executive s employment may be
terminated for Cause only if (x) the acts or omissions specified in the
Notice of Consideration did in fact occur and do constitute Cause as defined in
this Section, (y) the Board makes a specific determination to such effect
and to the effect that Executive s employment should be terminated for Cause
and (z) the Company thereafter provides Executive with a Notice of
Termination that specifies in specific detail the basis of such Termination of
Employment for Cause and which Notice shall be consistent with the reasons set
forth in the Notice of Consideration. 
The Board s determination specified in clause (y) of the preceding
sentence shall require the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the members of
the Board.  

(v)           In the event that the existence of
Cause shall become an issue in any action or proceeding between the Company and
Executive, the Company shall, notwithstanding the determination referenced in
clause (iv) of this Section 3.3(c), have the burden of establishing
that the actions or omissions specified in the Notice of Consideration did in
fact occur and do constitute Cause and that the Company has satisfied the
procedural requirements of this Section 3.3(c).  The satisfaction of the Company s burden
shall require clear and convincing evidence.  

3.4            Good Reason .  

(a)           During the Post-Change Period,
Executive may terminate his employment for Good Reason in accordance with the
substantive and procedural provisions of this Section.  A Termination of Employment for Good Reason
will be deemed to have occurred during the Post-Change Period if Executive
gives notice as provided in Section 3.4(d) within the Post-Change
Period and the Termination of Employment is no more than thirty (30) days after
the expiration of the cure period described in Section 3.4(e).  

(b)             Good Reason   means the first
to occur of the following actions or omissions that, unless otherwise
specified, occurs during a Post-Change Period without the consent of Executive:  

(i)            a material
diminution in Executive s base compensation;  

(ii)           any material
diminution in Executive s authority, duties, or responsibilities as set forth
in Paragraph 2.1(a);  

14  

(iii)          any material
diminution in the authority, duties, or responsibilities of the person to whom
Executive reports, including a requirement that Executive report to a corporate
officer or employee instead of reporting directly to the Board, if applicable;  

(iv)          a material change in
the geographic location at which Executive must perform services; or  

(v)           any other action or
inaction that constitutes a material breach of this Agreement by the Company;  

(c)           Any reasonable determination by
Executive that any of the events specified in subsection (b) above has
occurred and constitutes Good Reason shall be conclusive and binding for all
purposes, unless the Company establishes by clear and convincing evidence that
Executive did not have any reasonable basis for such determination.  

(d)           In the event of any Termination of
Employment by Executive for Good Reason, Executive shall notify the Company of
the events constituting such Good Reason by a Notice of Termination within
ninety days of the date Executive should have known of the events constituting
Good Reason.  

(e)           Company shall have thirty days from
the date Executive provides Notice of Termination pursuant to Section 3.4(d) to
remedy the conditions constituting Good Reason during which period no
termination for Good Reason shall be deemed to have occurred.  

(f)            If the Company has not remedied the
conditions constituting Good Reason within the thirty-day period described in Section 3.4(e),
then, in order for Executive s termination to constitute a termination for Good
Reason, the date of Termination of Employment must occur no later than twelve
(12) months after the date of the first action or omission constituting Good
Reason.  

ARTICLE IV.  

  COMPANY S OBLIGATIONS
UPON A TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

4.1              If by Executive for Good Reason
or by the Company Other Than for Cause or Disability .  If, during the Post-Change Period, the
Company terminates Executive s employment other than for Cause or Disability,
or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason, the Company s sole
obligations to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall
be as follows:  

(a)             The Company shall pay Executive, in
addition to all vested rights arising from Executive s employment as specified
in Article II, a lump-sum cash amount equal to the sum of the following:  

(i)            all Accrued
Obligations;  

15  

(ii)                                     Executive s
Pro-rata Annual Bonus reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any Annual
Bonus paid to Executive with respect to the Company s fiscal year in which the
Termination Date occurs; 

(iii)                                  Executive s
Pro-rata LTIP Bonus reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of any LTIP
Bonus paid to Executive with respect to the Company s fiscal year in which the
Termination Date occurs; 

(iv)                                 all
amounts previously deferred by, or accrued to the benefit of, Executive under
any defined contribution Non-Qualified Plans, whether or not vested, together
with any accrued earnings thereon, to the extent that such amounts and earnings
have not been previously paid by the Company (whether pursuant to Section 2.4
or otherwise); 

(v)                                    an
amount equal to three (3.0) times the sum of (y) Base Salary, and (z) the
Target Annual Bonus, each determined as of the Termination Date; provided,
however, that any reduction in Executive s Base Salary or Target Annual Bonus
that would qualify as Good Reason shall be disregarded for this purpose; and 

(vi)                                 to
the extent not paid pursuant to clause (iv) of this Section 4.1(a),
an amount equal to the sum of the value of the unvested portion of Executive s
accounts or accrued benefits under any defined contribution Plan (whether or
not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code) maintained by the
Company as of the Termination Date and forfeited by Executive by reason of the
Termination of Employment. 

Such lump-sum amount shall be paid no more than five
business days after the date of Termination of Employment.  

(b)                                    The
Company shall pay Executive, in lieu of all benefits under all defined benefit
Non-Qualified Plans that have accrued on or before the Termination Date but
remain unpaid as of such date, a lump-sum cash amount equal to the positive
difference, if any, between: 

(i)                                        the
sum of the Lump-Sum Values of each Maximum Annuity that would be payable to
Executive under any defined benefit Plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code) if Executive had: 

(1)                                     become
fully vested in all such benefits to the extent that such benefits are unvested
as of the Termination Date, 

(2)                                     attained
as of the Termination Date an age that is three years greater than Executive s
actual age, 

(3)                                     accrued
a number of years of service (for purposes of determining the amount of such
benefits, entitlement to early retirement benefits, and all other purposes of
such defined benefit plans) that is three 

16  

years greater than
the number of years of service actually accrued by Executive as of the
Termination Date, and  

(4)                                     received
the lump-sum severance benefits specified in Section 4.1(a) (excluding
all LTIP Bonuses, and all amounts in respect of Stock Options or Restricted
Shares, if any) as covered compensation in equal monthly installments during
the three year period following Termination of Employment, 

minus  

(ii)                                   the
sum of (x) the Lump-Sum Values of the Maximum Annuity benefits vested and
payable (whether currently or at some future date) to Executive under each
defined benefit Plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the
Code and (y) the aggregate amounts simultaneously or previously paid
(whether pursuant to Section 2.4 or otherwise) to Executive under the
defined benefit Plans (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code) described in clause (i) of this Section 4.1(b). 

(c)                                     Such
lump-sum amount shall be paid no more than five business days after the date of
Termination of Employment. (i) On the date of Termination of Employment,
all of Executive s unvested Stock Options then outstanding (whether granted
before or after the Agreement Date) shall immediately become fully vested and
exercisable, and (ii) all of Executive s Restricted Shares then
outstanding shall immediately become fully vested and nonforfeitable.  This Section 4.1(c) amends all
award agreements dated as of any date before the Agreement Date. 

(d)                                    All
of Executive s then-outstanding Stock Options that were granted after the
Agreement Date, whether vested on or before the date of Termination of
Employment, shall thereafter remain exercisable until the last to occur of (x) the
first anniversary of the date of Termination of Employment, and (y) any
period provided in the applicable stock option agreement or stock option plan
as then in effect, but in no event shall such period of exercisability continue
after the earlier of (i) the date on which such Stock Options would have
expired if Executive had remained an employee of the Company, or (ii) the
tenth anniversary of the original date of the Stock Option grant. 

(e)                                     Within
five business days after date of Executive s Termination of Employment, the
Company shall deliver to Executive certificates for all Restricted Shares
theretofore held by or on behalf of the Company. 

(f)                                       The
Company shall pay on behalf of Executive all reasonable fees and costs charged
by the outplacement firm selected by Executive to provide outplacement services
to Executive that are incurred no later than the end of the second year
following the year in which the Termination of Employment occurs. 

(g)                                    During
the period of time which Executive would be entitled to continuation coverage
under a Company-sponsored group health plan under Section 4980 of the Code
or such later date as any Plan may specify, the Company shall continue to  

17  

make available to Executive and Executive s family
welfare benefits (including medical, prescription, dental, disability, salary
continuance, individual life, group life, accidental death and travel accident
insurance plans and programs) that are at least as favorable as the most
favorable Plans of the Company applicable to other peer executives and their
families as of the Termination Date, but which are in no event less favorable
than the most favorable Plans of the Company applicable to other peer
executives and their families during the 90-day period immediately before the
Effective Date.  The cost of such welfare
benefits, including continuation coverage required by Section 4980 of the
Code ( COBRA ), to Executive shall not exceed the cost of such benefits to
Executive immediately before the Termination Date or, if less, the Effective
Date.  Executive s rights under this Section shall
be co-extensive with any post-termination continuation coverage Executive may
have pursuant to applicable law, including COBRA,.  Accordingly, in order to receive this
coverage, Executive shall timely elect continuation coverage under COBRA for
Executive and Executive s covered dependents. 
Notwithstanding any of the above, such welfare benefits shall be
secondary to any similar welfare benefits provided by Executive s subsequent
employer as provided in the Plans.  

4.2                                     If
by the Company for Cause .  If the
Company terminates Executive s employment for Cause during the Post-Change
Period, the Company s sole obligation to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2
and this Article shall be to pay Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to
all Accrued Obligations determined as of the Termination Date. 

4.3                                     If
by Executive Other Than for Good Reason . 
If Executive terminates employment during the Post-Change Period other
than for Good Reason, Disability or death, the Company s sole obligation to
Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be to pay
Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations determined as
of the Termination Date. 

4.4                                     If
by the Company for Disability .  If
the Company terminates Executive s employment by reason of Executive s Disability
during the Post-Change Period, the Company s sole obligation to Executive under
Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be as follows: 

(a)                                     to
pay Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations
determined as of the Termination Date, and 

(b)                                    to
provide Executive disability and other benefits after the Termination Date that
are not less favorable to Executive than the most favorable of such benefits
then available under Plans of the Company to disabled peer executives of the
Company. 

Such disability and other benefits shall also be not materially less
favorable, in the aggregate, to Executive than the most favorable of the
disability and other benefits available to Executive under such Plans in effect
at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the Effective Date.  

4.5                                     If
Upon Death .  If Executive s
employment is terminated by reason of Executive s death during the Post-Change
Period, the Company s sole obligations to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2
and this Article shall be as follows: 

18  

(a)                                     to
pay Executive s estate or Beneficiary a lump-sum cash amount equal to all
Accrued Obligations; and 

(b)                                    to
provide Executive s estate or Beneficiary survivor and other benefits that are
not less than the most favorable survivor and other benefits then available
under Plans of the Company to the estates or the surviving families of peer
executives of the Company. 

Such survivor benefits shall also be no less favorable, in the
aggregate, than the most favorable of the survivor benefits available to
Executive under such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day period
immediately preceding the Effective Date.  

4.6                                     Amount
Contested . 

(a)                                     In
the event of any dispute between the Company and Executive as to the nature or
extent of the Company s obligation to make any payments or provide other
benefits to Executive or Executive s family pursuant to Sections 4.1 or 2.4,
Executive shall have the right, exercisable by written notice given to the
Company within 90 days after the Executive believes a payment or provision of
benefits should have occurred, to obtain, within 30 days after the Company s
receipt of Executive s demand therefor, a written certificate prepared by the
Company and certified by Allstate s independent auditors (a   Section 4.6
Certificate  ). The Section 4.6 Certificate shall specify in detail
either (i) the amount and nature of each payment or other benefit that the
Company believes is then due and owing to Executive pursuant to Section 2.4
or 4.1, as applicable, or (ii) if the Company asserts that the conditions
to Executive s entitlement to severance or other benefits pursuant to Section 4.1
or 2.4, as applicable, have for any reason not been satisfied, the amount and
nature of each payment or other benefit that the Company believes would be due
and owing to Executive pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, if
all of such applicable conditions had been fully satisfied.  Executive may not demand more than one Section 4.6
Certificate in respect of his rights under Section 4.1 or more than one Section 4.6
Certificate in respect of his rights under Section 2.4. 

(b)                                    Each
Section 4.6 Certificate shall include schedules that specify in detail how
each amount or other benefit specified therein was computed, together with
appropriate references to specific provisions of this Agreement or of any
applicable Plans or Policies of the Company, copies of which Plans or Policies
shall be attached to such schedules. 

(c)                                     The
Company shall be precluded from asserting that any portion of the payments or
other benefits due to Executive pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as
applicable, is less than the amount specified in the Section 4.6
Certificate. The Section 4.6 Certificate shall in no event be binding on
Executive and Executive shall have the right to assert that any or all of the
payments or other benefits to be provided pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4
are greater than or different from those specified in the Section 4.6
Certificate. 

19  

(d)                                    If
the Company shall for any reason fail to deliver to Executive a Section 4.6
Certificate in compliance with this Section within 30 days after the
Company s receipt of Executive s written demand therefor, Executive s
determination of the amount and nature of payments or other benefits due to
Executive (i) pursuant to Section 4.1 and set forth in an Executive s
Severance Determination (as defined below) or (ii) pursuant to Section 2.4
and set forth in an Executive s Deferred Compensation Determination (as defined
below) shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of this Agreement
unless the Company shall establish, by clear and convincing evidence, that
Executive s Severance Determination or Executive s Deferred Compensation
Determination, as applicable, is incorrect and that a different amount (which
may be zero or a positive amount) or nature of payments or other benefits is
correct.    Executive s Severance
Determination   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive
compensation counsel to the effect that the amount and nature of severance and
other benefits due to Executive pursuant to Section 4.1 is the amount and
nature that a court of competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not
subject to further appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in
accordance with this Agreement and applicable law.    Executive s Deferred Compensation
Determination   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive
compensation counsel to the effect that the amount of payments due to Executive
pursuant to Section 2.4 is the amount that a court of competent
jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further appeal, is most
likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with this Agreement and
applicable law. 

ARTICLE V. 
CERTAIN ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS BY THE COMPANY  

5.1                                     Gross-up
for Certain Taxes . 

(a)                                     If
it is determined by Allstate s independent auditors that any monetary or other
benefit received or deemed received by Executive from the Company or any
Affiliate pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise, whether or not in connection
with a Change of Control (such monetary or other benefits collectively, the   Potential
Parachute Payments  ), is or will become subject to any excise tax under Section 4999
of the Code or any similar tax under any United States federal, state, local or
other law other than Section 409A of the Code (such excise tax and all
such similar taxes collectively,   Excise Taxes  ), then the Company shall,
subject to Sections 5.6 and 5.7, within five business days after such
determination, pay Executive an amount (the   Gross-Up Payment  ) equal to
the product of: 

(i)                            the
amount of such Excise Taxes 

multiplied by  

(ii)                         the
Gross-Up Multiple (as defined in Section 5.4). 

20  

The Gross-Up Payment is intended to compensate
Executive for all Excise Taxes payable by Executive with respect to Potential
Parachute Payments and all Taxes or Excise Taxes payable by Executive with
respect to the Gross-Up Payment.  The
Company shall not compensate Executive for any taxes, penalties or interest
related to Section 409A of the Code payable by Executive.  

(b)                                    The
determination of Allstate s independent auditors described in Section 5.1(a),
including the detailed calculations of the amounts of the Potential Parachute
Payments, Excise Taxes and Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions relating
thereto, shall be set forth in a written certificate of such auditors (the   Company
Certificate  ) delivered to Executive. 
Executive or the Company may at any time request the preparation and
delivery to Executive of a Company Certificate. 
The Company shall cause the Company Certificate to be delivered to
Executive as soon as reasonably possible after such request. 

5.2                                     Determination
by Executive . 

(a)                                     If
(i) the Company shall fail to deliver a Company Certificate to Executive
within 30 days after its receipt of his written request therefor, or (ii) within
90 days after Executive s receipt of a Company Certificate, Executive provides
notice to Company that Executive disputes either (x) the amount of the
Gross-Up Payment set forth therein or (y) the determination set forth
therein to the effect that no Gross-Up Payment is due by reason of Section 5.7
or otherwise, and Executive takes further measures within 180 days to enforce
the Gross-Up Payment, then Executive may elect to require the Company to pay a
Gross-Up Payment in the amount determined by Executive as set forth in an
Executive Counsel Opinion (as defined in Section 5.5).  Any such demand by Executive shall be made by
delivery to the Company of a written notice that specifies the Gross-Up Payment
determined by Executive (together with the detailed calculations of the amounts
of Potential Parachute Payments, Excise Taxes and Gross-Up Payment and the
assumptions relating thereto) and an Executive Counsel Opinion regarding such
Gross-Up Payment (such written notice and opinion collectively, the   Executive s
Gross-Up Determination  ).  Within 30
days after delivery of an Executive s Gross-Up Determination to the Company,
the Company shall either (i) pay Executive the Gross-Up Payment set forth
in the Executive s Gross-Up Determination (less the portion thereof, if any,
previously paid to Executive by the Company) or (ii) deliver to Executive
a Company Certificate and a Company Counsel Opinion (as defined in Section 5.5),
and pay Executive the Gross-Up Payment specified in such Company
Certificate.  If for any reason the
Company fails to comply with the preceding sentence, the Gross-Up Payment
specified in the Executive s Gross-Up Determination shall be controlling for
all purposes. 

(b)                                    If
Executive does not request a Company Certificate, and the Company does not
deliver a Company Certificate to Executive, then (i) the Company shall,
for purposes of Section 5.7, be deemed to have determined that no Gross-Up
Payment is due and (ii) Executive shall not pay any Excise Taxes in
respect of Potential Parachute Payments except in accordance with Sections 5.6(a) or
(d). 

21  

5.3                                           Additional
Gross-up Amounts .  If for any reason
(whether pursuant to subsequently enacted provisions of the Code other than Section 409A
of the Code, final regulations or published rulings of the IRS, a final
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, a determination of the Company s
independent auditors set forth in a Company Certificate or, subject to the last
two sentences of Section 5.2(a), an Executive s Gross-Up Determination) it
is later determined that the amount of Excise Taxes payable by Executive is
greater than the amount determined by the Company or Executive pursuant to Section 5.1
or 5.2, as applicable, then the Company shall, subject to Sections 5.6 and 5.7,
pay Executive within 30 days after the determination an amount (which shall
also be deemed a Gross-Up Payment) equal to the product of: 

(a)                                     the
sum of (i) such additional Excise Taxes and (ii) any interest,
penalties, expenses or other costs incurred by Executive as a result of having
taken a position in accordance with a determination made pursuant to Section 5.1
or 5.2, as applicable, 

multiplied by  

(b)                                    the
Gross-Up Multiple. 

5.4                                     Gross-up
Multiple .  The   Gross-Up Multiple  
shall equal a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1.0), and the
denominator of which is one (1.0) minus the lesser of (i) the sum,
expressed as a decimal fraction, of the effective after-tax marginal rates of
all Taxes and any Excise Taxes applicable to the Gross-Up Payment or (ii) 0.80,
it being intended that the Gross-Up Multiple shall in no event exceed five
(5.0).  (If different rates of tax are
applicable to various portions of a Gross-Up Payment, the weighted average of
such rates shall be used.)  For purposes
of this Section, Executive shall be deemed to be subject to the highest
effective after-tax marginal rate of Taxes. 

5.5                                     Opinion
of Counsel .    Executive Counsel
Opinion   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation
counsel to the effect (i) that the amount of the Gross-Up Payment
determined by Executive pursuant to Section 5.2 is the amount that a court
of competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further
appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with
this Article and applicable law and (ii) if the Company has
previously delivered a Company Certificate to Executive, that there is no
reasonable basis or no substantial authority for the calculation of the
Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Company Certificate.   Company Counsel
Opinion   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation
counsel to the effect that (i) the amount of the Gross-Up Payment set
forth in the Company Certificate is the amount that a court of competent
jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further appeal, is most
likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with this Article and
applicable law and (ii) for purposes of Section 6662 of the Code,
Executive has substantial authority to report on his federal income tax return
the amount of Excise Taxes set forth in the Company Certificate. 

22  

5.6                                     Amount
Increased or Contested . 

(a)                                     Executive
shall notify the Company in writing (an   Executive s Notice  ) of any
claim by the IRS or other taxing authority (an   IRS Claim  ) that, if
successful, would require the payment by Executive of Excise Taxes in respect
of Potential Parachute Payments in an amount in excess of the amount of such
Excise Taxes determined in accordance with Section 5.1 or 5.2, as
applicable.  Executive s Notice shall
include the nature and amount of such IRS Claim, the date on which such IRS
Claim is due to be paid (the   IRS Claim Deadline ), and a copy of all
notices and other documents or correspondence received by Executive in respect
of such IRS Claim.  Executive shall give
the Executive s Notice as soon as practicable, but no later than the earlier of
(i) 10 business days after Executive first obtains actual knowledge of
such IRS Claim or (ii) five business days before the IRS Claim Deadline;
provided, however, that any failure to give such Executive s Notice shall
affect the Company s obligations under this Article only to the extent
that the Company is actually prejudiced by such failure.  If at least one business day before the IRS
Claim Deadline the Company shall: 

(i)                                        deliver
to Executive a Company Certificate to the effect that the IRS Claim has been
reviewed by the Company s independent auditors and, notwithstanding the IRS
Claim, the amount of Excise Taxes, interest or penalties payable by Executive
is less than the amount specified in the IRS Claim, 

(ii)                                     pay
to Executive an amount (which shall also be deemed a Gross-Up Payment) equal to
the positive difference between the product of (x) the amount of Excise
Taxes, interest and penalties specified in the Company Certificate, if any,
multiplied by (y) the Gross-Up Multiple, less the portion of such product,
if any, previously paid to Executive by the Company, and 

(iii)                                  direct
Executive pursuant to Section 5.6(d) to contest the balance of the
IRS Claim, 

then Executive shall pay only the amount, if any, of
Excise Taxes, interest and penalties specified in the Company Certificate.  In no event shall Executive pay an IRS Claim
earlier than 30 days after having given an Executive s Notice to the Company
(or, if sooner, the IRS Claim Deadline).  

(b)                                    At
any time after the payment by Executive of any amount of Excise Taxes or
related interest or penalties in respect of Potential Parachute Payments (whether
or not such amount was based on a Company Certificate, an Executive s Gross-Up
Determination or an IRS Claim), the Company may in its discretion require
Executive to pursue a claim for a refund (a   Refund Claim  ) of all or
any portion of such Excise Taxes, interest or penalties as the Company may
specify by written notice to Executive. 

(c)                                     If
the Company notifies Executive in writing that the Company desires Executive to
contest an IRS Claim or to pursue a Refund Claim, Executive shall: 

(i)                                        give
the Company all information that it reasonably requests in writing from time to
time relating to such IRS Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, 

23  

(ii)                                     take
such action in connection with such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable)
as the Company reasonably requests in writing from time to time, including
accepting legal representation with respect thereto by an attorney selected by
the Company, subject to the approval of Executive (which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed), 

(iii)                                  cooperate
with the Company in good faith to contest such IRS Claim or pursue such Refund
Claim, as applicable, 

(iv)                                 permit
the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such IRS Claim or
Refund Claim, as applicable, and 

(v)                                    contest
such IRS Claim or prosecute Refund Claim (as applicable) to a determination
before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in
one or more appellate courts, as the Company may from time to time determine in
its discretion. 

The Company shall control all proceedings in
connection with such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) and in its
discretion may cause Executive to pursue or forego any and all administrative
appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the IRS or other taxing
authority in respect of such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable);
provided that (i) any extension of the statute of limitations relating to
payment of taxes for the taxable year of Executive relating to the IRS Claim is
limited solely to such IRS Claim, (ii) the Company s control of the IRS
Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) shall be limited to issues with respect
to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable, and (iii) Executive shall be
entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by
the IRS or other taxing authority.  

(d)                                    The
Company may at any time in its discretion direct Executive to (i) contest
the IRS Claim in any lawful manner or (ii) pay the amount specified in an
IRS Claim and pursue a Refund Claim; provided, however, that if the Company
directs Executive to pay an IRS Claim and pursue a Refund Claim, the Company
shall advance the amount of such payment to Executive on an interest-free basis
and shall indemnify Executive, on an after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise
Taxes and related interest or penalties imposed with respect to such advance. 

(e)                                     The
Company shall pay directly all legal, accounting and other costs and expenses
(including additional interest and penalties) incurred by the Company or
Executive in connection with any IRS Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, and
shall indemnify Executive, on an after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise Taxes
and related interest and penalties imposed as a result of such payment of costs
and expenses. 

5.7                                     Limitations
on Gross-Up Payments . 

(a)                                     Notwithstanding
any other provision of this Article V, if the aggregate After-Tax Amount
(as defined below) of the Potential Parachute Payments and Gross-Up  

24  

Payment that, but for this Section 5.7, would be
payable to Executive, does not exceed 110% of the After-Tax Floor Amount (as
defined below), then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive and the
aggregate amount of Potential Parachute Payments payable to Executive shall be
reduced (but not below the Floor Amount) to the largest amount that would both (i) not
cause any Excise Taxes to be payable by Executive and (ii) not cause any
Potential Parachute Payments to become nondeductible by the Company by reason
of Section 280G of the Code (or any successor provision).  For purposes of the preceding sentence,
Executive shall be deemed to be subject to the highest effective after-tax
marginal rate of Taxes.  

(b)                                    For
purposes of this Agreement: 

(i)                                          After-Tax
Amount   means the portion of a specified amount that would remain after
payment of all Taxes and Excise Taxes paid or payable by Executive in respect
of such specified amount; and 

(ii)                                       Floor
Amount   means the greatest pre-tax amount of Potential Parachute Payments
that could be paid to Executive without causing Executive to become liable for
any Excise Taxes in connection therewith; and 

(iii)                                    After-Tax
Floor Amount   means the After-Tax Amount of the Floor Amount. 

5.8                                     Refunds .  If, after the receipt by Executive of any
payment or advance of Excise Taxes by the Company pursuant to this Article,
Executive receives any refund with respect to such Excise Taxes, Executive
shall (subject to the Company s complying with any applicable requirements of Section 5.6)
promptly pay the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest
paid or credited thereon after Taxes applicable thereto).  If, after the receipt by Executive of an
amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5.6, a determination is
made that Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such
claim and the Company does not notify Executive in writing of its intent to
contest such determination within 30 days after the Company receives written
notice of such determination, then such advance shall be forgiven and shall not
be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance shall offset, to the
extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.  Any contest of a denial of refund shall be
controlled by Section 5.6. 

ARTICLE VI. 
EXPENSES AND INTEREST  

6.1                                     Legal
and Other Expenses . 

(a)                                     If
Executive incurs legal fees (including fees in connection with the delivery of
an Executive Counsel Opinion) or other expenses (including expert witness and
accounting fees) in an effort to determine, secure, preserve, establish
entitlement to, or obtain benefits under this Agreement (collectively,   Legal
and Other Expenses  ), the Company shall, regardless of the outcome of such
effort, pay or reimburse Executive for such Legal and Other Expenses in
accordance with Section 6.1(b). 

25  

(b)                                    All
Legal and Other Expenses shall be paid or reimbursed on a monthly basis within
10 days after Allstate s receipt of Executive s written request accompanied by
evidence that such Legal and Other Expenses were incurred. 

(c)                                     If
Executive does not prevail (after exhaustion of all available judicial
remedies) in respect of a claim by Executive or by the Company hereunder, and
the Company establishes before a court of competent jurisdiction, by clear and
convincing evidence, that Executive had no reasonable basis for his claim
hereunder, or for his response to the Company s claim hereunder, or acted in
bad faith, no further payment of or reimbursement for Legal and Other Expenses
shall be due to Executive in respect of such claim and Executive shall refund
any amounts previously paid or reimbursed hereunder with respect to such claim. 

6.2                                     Interest .  If the Company does not pay an amount due to
Executive under this Agreement within five business days after such amount
first became due and owing, interest shall accrue on such amount from the date
it became due and owing until the date of payment at an annual rate equal to
200 basis points above the base commercial lending rate published in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect from time to time during
the period of such nonpayment. 

ARTICLE VII.  

  NO SET-OFF OR MITIGATION  

7.1                                     No
Set-off by Company .  Executive s
right to receive when due the payments and other benefits provided for under
this Agreement is absolute, unconditional and subject to no set-off, counterclaim
or legal or equitable defense.  Time is
of the essence in the performance by the Company of its obligations under this
Agreement.  Any claim that the Company
may have against Executive, whether for a breach of this Agreement or
otherwise, shall be brought in a separate action or proceeding and not as part
of any action or proceeding brought by Executive to enforce any rights against
the Company under this Agreement, except if (i) the Company s claim is
determined by a court to be a compulsory counterclaim under applicable law or (ii) if
a court determines that the Company would otherwise be materially prejudiced if
its claim were to be brought in a separate action. 

7.2                                     No
Mitigation .  Executive shall not have
any duty to mitigate the amounts payable by the Company under this Agreement by
seeking new employment or self-employment following termination.  Except as specifically otherwise provided in
this Agreement, all amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement shall be paid
without reduction regardless of any amounts of salary, compensation or other
amounts that may be paid or payable to Executive as the result of Executive s
employment by another employer or self-employment. 

ARTICLE VIII.  

  RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS  

8.1                                     Non-Competition .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the period beginning
on the Effective Date 

26  

and ending on the first anniversary of the Termination Date, directly or
indirectly, in any capacity:  

(a)                                     engage
or participate in, become employed by, serve as a director of, or render
advisory or consulting or other services in connection with, any Competitive
Business; provided, however, that this Section 8.1(a) shall not
preclude Executive from being an employee of, or consultant to, any business
unit of a Competitive Business if (i) such business unit does not qualify
as a Competitive Business in its own right and (ii) Executive does not
have any direct or indirect involvement in, or responsibility for, any
operations of such Competitive Business that cause it to qualify as a
Competitive Business; or 

(b)                                    make
or retain any financial investment, whether in the form of equity or debt, or
own any interest, in any Competitive Business; provided, however, that nothing
in this subsection shall restrict Executive from making an investment in any
Competitive Business if such investment (i) represents no more than 1% of
the aggregate market value of the outstanding capital stock or debt (as
applicable) of such Competitive Business, (ii) does not give Executive any
right or ability, directly or indirectly, to control or influence the policy
decisions or management of such Competitive Business, and (iii) does not
create a conflict of interest between Executive s duties under this Agreement
and his interest in such investment. 

8.2                                     Non-Solicitation .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the period
beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the first anniversary of the
Termination Date, directly or indirectly: 

(a)                                     other
than in connection with the good-faith performance of his duties as an officer
of the Company, encourage any employee or agent of the Company to terminate his
relationship with the Company; 

(b)                                    employ,
engage as a consultant or adviser, or solicit the employment or engagement as a
consultant or adviser, of any employee or agent of the Company (other than by
the Company or its Affiliates), or cause or encourage any Person to do any of
the foregoing; 

(c)                                     establish
(or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, or encourage others
to establish (or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, any
employee or agent of the Company; or 

(d)                                    interfere
with the relationship of the Company with, or endeavor to entice away from the
Company, any Person who or which at any time during the period commencing one
year prior to the Agreement Date was or is a material customer or material
supplier of, or maintained a material business relationship with, the Company. 

8.3                                     Reasonableness
of Restrictive Covenants . 

(a)                                     Executive
acknowledges that the covenants contained in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 are
reasonable in the scope of the activities restricted, the geographic area 

27  

covered by the restrictions, and the duration of the
restrictions, and that such covenants are reasonably necessary to protect the
Company s relationships with its employees, customers and suppliers.  Executive further acknowledges such covenants
are essential elements of this Agreement and that, but for such covenants, the
Company would not have entered into this Agreement.  

(b)                                    The
Company and Executive have each consulted with their respective legal counsel
and have been advised concerning the reasonableness and propriety of such
covenants.  Executive acknowledges that
his observance of the covenants contained in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 will not deprive
him of the ability to earn a livelihood or to support his dependents. 

8.4                                     Right
to Injunction; Survival of Undertakings . 

(a)                                     In
recognition of the necessity of the limited restrictions imposed by Sections
8.1 and 8.2, the parties agree that it would be impossible to measure solely in
money the damages that the Company would suffer if Executive were to breach any
of his obligations under such Sections. 
Executive acknowledges that any breach of any provision of such Sections
would irreparably injure the Company. 
Accordingly, Executive agrees that the Company shall be entitled, in
addition to any other remedies to which the Company may be entitled under this
Agreement or otherwise, to an injunction to be issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, to restrain any actual breach, or threatened breach, of such
provisions, and Executive hereby waives any right to assert any defense that
the Company has an adequate remedy at law for any such breach. 

(b)                                    If
a court determines that any of the covenants included in this Article VIII
is unenforceable in whole or in part because of such covenant s duration or
geographical or other scope, such court may modify the duration or scope of
such provision, as the case may be, so as to cause such covenant as so modified
to be enforceable. 

(c)                                     All
of the provisions of this Article VIII shall survive any Termination of
Employment without regard to (i) the reasons for such termination or (ii) the
expiration of the Agreement Term. 

8.5                                     Non-Disparagement .  If Executive remains employed by the Company
on the Effective Date, Executive shall not at any time during the two-year
period commencing on the Termination Date (a) make any written or oral
statement that brings the Company or any of its then-current or former
employees, officers or agents into disrepute, or tarnishes any of their images
or reputations or (b) publish, comment on or disseminate any statements
suggesting or accusing the Company or any of its then-current or former agents,
employees or officers of any misconduct or unlawful behavior.  This Section shall not be deemed to be
breached by testimony of Executive given in any judicial or governmental
proceeding that Executive reasonably believes to be truthful at the time given
or by any other action of Executive that he reasonably believes is taken in accordance
with the requirements of applicable law or administrative regulation. 

28  

ARTICLE IX.  

  NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS  

9.1                                     Waiver
of Certain Other Rights .  To the
extent that Executive shall have received severance payments or other severance
benefits under any other Plan or agreement of the Company prior to receiving
severance payments or other severance benefits pursuant to Article IV, the
severance payments and other severance benefits under such other Plan or
agreement shall reduce (but not below zero) the corresponding severance
payments or other severance benefits to which Executive shall be entitled under
Article IV.  To the extent that
Executive receives payments or other benefits pursuant to Article IV,
Executive hereby waives the right to receive a corresponding amount of future
severance payments or other severance benefits under any other Plan or
agreement of the Company.  To the extent
that Executive receives payments pursuant to Section 4.1(b), Executive
hereby waives the right to receive payments or other benefits under any
Non-Qualified Plan that have accrued as of the Termination Date.  To the extent that Executive received
payments or other benefits pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(ii) or
(iii),  Executive hereby waives the right
to receive any Annual Bonus or LTIP Bonus payments with respect to the Annual
Performance Period or LTIP Performance Periods in effect as of the Termination
Date. 

9.2                                     Other
Rights .  Except as expressly provided
in Section 9.1, this Agreement shall not prevent or limit Executive s
continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other
Plans provided by the Company and for which Executive may qualify, nor shall
this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have
under any other agreements with the Company. 
Amounts that are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise
entitled to receive under any Plan and any other payment or benefit required by
law at or after the Termination Date shall be payable in accordance with such
Plan or applicable law except as expressly modified by this Agreement. 

ARTICLE X.  

  MISCELLANEOUS  

10.1                               No
Assignability .  This Agreement is
personal to Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company
shall not be assignable by Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of
descent and distribution.  This Agreement
shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive s legal
representatives. 

10.2                               Successors .  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of
and be binding on the Company and its successors and assigns.  The Company will require any successor
(whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise)
to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company to assume
expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the
same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such
succession had taken place.  Any
successor to the business or assets of the Company that assumes or agrees to
perform this Agreement by operation of law, contract, or otherwise shall be
jointly and severally liable with the Company under this Agreement as if such
successor were the Company. 

29  

10.3                               Payments
to Beneficiary .  If Executive dies
before receiving amounts to which Executive is entitled under this Agreement,
such amounts shall be paid in a lump sum to one or more beneficiaries
designated in writing by Executive (each, a   Beneficiary  ), or if none
is so designated, to Executive s estate. 

10.4                               Non-Alienation
of Benefits .  Benefits payable under
this Agreement shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation,
sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, charge, garnishment, execution
or levy of any kind, either voluntary or involuntary, before actually being
received by Executive, and any such attempt to dispose of any right to benefits
payable under this Agreement shall be void. 

10.5                               No
Deference .  Unless otherwise expressly
provided in this Agreement, no determination pursuant to, or interpretation of,
this Agreement made by the board of directors (or any committee thereof) of
Allstate or any Successor Corporation shall be entitled to any presumptive
validity or other deference in connection with any judicial or administrative
proceeding relating to or arising under this Agreement. 

10.6                               Severability .  If any one or more Articles, Sections or
other portions of this Agreement are declared by any court or governmental authority
to be unlawful or invalid, such unlawfulness or invalidity shall not serve to
invalidate any Article, Section or other portion not so declared to be
unlawful or invalid.  Any Article, Section or
other portion so declared to be unlawful or invalid shall be construed so as to
effectuate the terms of such Article, Section or other portion to the
fullest extent possible while remaining lawful and valid. 

10.7                               Amendments .  This Agreement shall not be amended or
modified except by written instrument executed by Executive, Allstate and AIC. 

10.8                               Notices .  All notices and other communications under
this Agreement shall be in writing and delivered by hand, by nationally
recognized delivery service that promises overnight delivery, or by first-class
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid,
addressed as follows: 

If to Executive, to
Executive at his most recent home address on file with the Company.  

If to Allstate or AIC:  

The Allstate Corporation  

  2775 Sanders Road  

  Northbrook, Illinois  60062  

  Attention:  General Counsel  

or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the
other in writing.  Notice and
communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.  

10.9                               Counterparts .  This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which
together constitute one and the same instrument. 

30  

10.10                         Governing Law .  This Agreement shall be interpreted and
construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois, without regard
to its choice of law principles. 

10.11                         Captions .  The captions of this Agreement are not a part
of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. 

10.12                         Number and Gender .  Wherever appropriate, the singular shall
include the plural, the plural shall include the singular, and the masculine
shall include the feminine. 

10.13                         Tax Withholding .  The Company may withhold from any amounts
payable under this Agreement any Taxes that are required to be withheld by any
applicable law or regulation. 

10.14                         No Waiver .  Executive s failure to insist upon strict
compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed a waiver of
such provision or any other provision of this Agreement.  A waiver of any provision of this Agreement
shall not be deemed a waiver of any other provision, and any waiver of any
default in any such provision shall not be deemed a waiver of any later default
thereof or of any other provision. 

10.15                         Joint and Several Liability .  The obligations of Allstate and AIC to
Executive under this Agreement shall be joint and several. 

10.16                         No Rights Prior to Effective
Date .  Notwithstanding any provision
of this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement shall not entitle Executive
to any compensation, severance or other benefits of any kind prior to an
Effective Date. 

10.17                         Six-month Delay .  Any payment considered to be deferred
compensation under Section 409A of the Code and not subject to an exception
or exemption thereunder, shall not be paid to Executive prior to the first
business day following the date that is six (6) months after the date of
Executive s Termination of Employment. 
Any payments that would otherwise have been made to Executive during
such six (6) month period shall instead be aggregated and not paid to
Executive prior to the first business day following the date that is six (6) months
after the date of  Executive s
Termination of Employment.  Any payments
subject to a six-month delay shall be paid with interest which shall accrue
from the date such payment became due and owing until the date of payment at an
annual rate equal to 200 basis points above the base commercial lending rate
published in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect
from time to time during the six-month delay period.  Any payments scheduled to be made after the
date that is six (6) months after the Termination of Employment shall be
paid to Executive in accordance with the other provisions of this Agreement or
applicable plan. 

10.18.                      Interpretation to Avoid 409A
Penalties .  This Agreement is
intended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code so as
to avoid the imposition of excise taxes and penalties on the Executive under Section 409A
of the Code.  The Agreement shall be
interpreted, construed and administered consistent with that intent. 

10.19                         Entire
Agreement .  This Agreement contains
the entire understanding of Allstate, AIC and Executive with respect to its
subject matter. 

31  

[IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive, Allstate and AIC have
executed this Change of Control Employment Agreement as of the date first above
written.](6)  

[IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive, Allstate and AIC have
executed this Amended and Restated Change of Control Employment Agreement as
of 
                                                        .](7)  

EXECUTIVE  

[insert
  name of Executive]   

THE ALLSTATE
  CORPORATION  

By:  

Title:  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE
  COMPANY  

By:  

Title:  

(6) This text is to be used in Agreements entered into on or after
November 11, 2008.  

  (7) This text is to be used in Agreements originally entered into
prior to November 11, 2008, and being amended and restated on or after
this date.  

32  

</EX-10.22>

<EX-10.23>
 4
 a2189233zex-10_23.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.23

EXHIBIT 10.23   

AMENDED AND RESTATED  

CHANGE OF CONTROL EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT  

AMONG  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION,  

ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY  

AND  

[NAME OF EXECUTIVE]  

  (Tier Two)  

TABLE
OF CONTENTS   

i  

ii  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION  

AMENDED AND RESTATED  

CHANGE OF CONTROL EMPLOYMENT
AGREEMENT  

The
Allstate Corporation, a Delaware corporation (  Allstate  ), Allstate
Insurance Company, an Illinois insurance company (  AIC  ), and                                                          (  Executive  )
are parties to a Change of Control Employment Agreement (the  Original Agreement )
originally entered into on                     (the  Agreement Date ).  The Board of Directors approved the amendment
and restatement of the Original Agreement on November 13, 2007 and the
further amendment and restatement in the form of this Amended and Restated
Agreement on November 11, 2008, such Amended and Restated Agreement to be
effective on December 31, 2008, subject to Executive s execution of this
Amended and Restated Agreement.  

To comply with the provisions of Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code so as to avoid the imposition of excise taxes and
penalties on the Executive under Section 409A and to amend certain
provisions of the original Agreement, this Amended and Restated Agreement is
entered into, to be effective as of December 31, 2008.  

PURPOSES  

On February 12, 1999
Allstate originally adopted Change of Control Employment Agreements, and on November 13,
2007 and November 11, 2008 approved certain changes to the terms of such
Agreements. Allstate has determined that it is in the best interests of
Allstate and its stockholders to assure that the Company will have the continued
service of Executive. Allstate also believes it is imperative to reduce the
distraction of Executive that would result from the personal uncertainties
caused by a pending or threatened change of control of Allstate, to encourage
Executive s full attention and dedication to the Company, and to provide
Executive with compensation and benefits arrangements upon a change of control
that will satisfy the expectations of Executive and be competitive with those
of similarly situated corporations. This Agreement is intended to accomplish
these objectives.  

ARTICLE I.  

  CERTAIN DEFINITIONS  

As used in this Agreement, the terms specified below
shall have the following meanings:  

1.1                                    Accrued Annual Bonus   means the
amount of any Annual Bonus earned and due to be paid but not yet paid to
Executive as of the Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that
Executive has elected to defer. 

1.2                                    Accrued Base Salary   means the amount
of Executive s Base Salary that is accrued but unpaid as of the Executive s
Termination Date, other than amounts that Executive has elected to defer. 

1.3                                    Accrued LTIP Bonus   means the amount
of any LTIP Bonus earned and due to be paid but not yet paid to Executive as of
the Executive s Termination Date, other than amounts that Executive has elected
to defer. 

1.4                                    Accrued Obligations   means, as of any
date, the sum of Executive s Accrued Base Salary, Accrued Annual Bonus, Accrued
LTIP Bonus, any accrued but unpaid vacation pay, and any other amounts and
benefits that are then due to be paid or provided to Executive by the Company
(other than pursuant to Sections 2.4 or 4.1(b) or any defined benefit
or defined contribution plan of the Company, whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code), but have not yet been paid or provided (as applicable). 

1.5                                    Agreement Date     see the
introductory paragraph of this Agreement. 

1.6                                    Agreement Term   means the period
commencing on the Agreement Date and ending on the third anniversary of the
Agreement Date or, if later, such later date to which the Agreement Term is
extended pursuant to the following sentence. Commencing on the second
anniversary of the Agreement Date, the Agreement Term shall automatically be
extended each day by one day to create a new one-year term until, at any time
after the second anniversary of the Agreement Date, the Company delivers
written notice (an   Expiration Notice  ) to Executive that the Agreement
shall expire on a date specified in the Expiration Notice (the   Expiration
Date  ) that is not less than 12 months after the date the Expiration Notice
is delivered to Executive; provided, however, that if an Effective Date or an
Imminent Control Change Date occurs before the Expiration Date specified in the
Expiration Notice, then such Expiration Notice shall be void and of no further
effect.   Imminent Control Change Date   means (i) any date on which
a proposal or offer for a Change of Control is presented to Allstate s
stockholders generally or to any of Allstate s directors or executive officers
or is publicly announced (whether by advertisement, press release, press
interview, public statement, SEC filing or otherwise) or (ii) any subsequent
date as of which such proposal or offer for a Change of Control remains
effective and has not expired or been revoked. 

1.7                                    AIC     see the introductory paragraph
of this Agreement. 

1.8                                    Allstate     see the introductory
paragraph of this Agreement. 

1.9                                    Annual Bonus     see Section 2.2(b). 

1.10                              Annual Performance Period     see Section 2.2(b). 

1.11                              Article   means an article of this
Agreement. 

1.12                              Base Salary     see Section 2.2(a). 

1.13                              Beneficiary     see Section 10.3. 

2  

1.14                              Board   means the Board of Directors
of Allstate or, from and after the Effective Date of a Change of Control that
gives rise to a Surviving Corporation, the Board of Directors of such Surviving
Corporation. 

1.15                              Bonus Plan     see Section 2.2(b). 

1.16                              Cause     see Section 3.3(b). 

1.17                              CEO   means Chief Executive Officer. 

1.18                              Change of Control   means, except as
otherwise provided at the end of this Section, the occurrence of any one or
more of the following: 

(a)                                     ( Voting Power)   any Person or group (as such term
is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), other
than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of
Allstate or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires or has acquired during the
12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such
Person of Persons, ownership of stock of Allstate possessing 30% or more of the
combined voting power of all Voting Securities of Allstate (such a Person or
group that is not a Similarly Owned Company (as defined below), a   More than
30% Owner  ), except that no Change of Control shall be deemed to have
occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a corporation with respect to
which both more than 70% of the common stock of such corporation and Voting
Securities representing more than 70% of the combined voting power of the
Voting Securities of such corporation are then owned, directly or indirectly,
by the Persons who were the direct or indirect owners of the common stock and
Voting Securities of Allstate immediately before such acquisition in
substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately before such
acquisition, of the common stock and Voting Securities of Allstate, as the case
may be (a   Similarly Owned Company   or 

(b)                                     (Majority Ownership)   any
Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)),
other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of
Allstate or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires ownership of more than 50% of the
voting power of all Voting Securities of Allstate or of the total fair market
value of the stock of Allstate (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly
Owned Company, a   Majority Owner  ), except that no Change of Control
shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a  Similarly
Owned Company ; or 

(c)                                      (Board Composition)   a majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month
period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority
of the members of the Board before the date of the appointment or election (  Board
Turnover   or 

3  

(d)                                     (Reorganization)   the consummation of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, or similar
transaction, or of a plan or agreement for the sale or other disposition of all
or substantially all of the consolidated assets of Allstate, or a plan of
liquidation of Allstate (any of the foregoing, a   Reorganization Transaction  )
that, does not qualify as an Exempt Reorganization Transaction. 

Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary: (i) no transaction or event shall constitute a Change of Control
for purposes of this Agreement unless the transaction or event constituting the
Change of Control also constitutes a change in the ownership of a corporation
(as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)), a change in
effective control of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi))
or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a
corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii));
and (ii) no sale or disposition of one or more Subsidiaries ( Sale
Subsidiary ) or the assets thereof shall constitute a Change of Control for
purposes of this Agreement if the investments in and advances by Allstate and
its Subsidiaries (other than the Sale Subsidiaries) to such Sale Subsidiary as
of immediately prior to the sale or disposition determined in accordance with
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) (but after intercompany
eliminations and net of the effect of intercompany reinsurance) are less than
51% of the Consolidated Total Shareholders  Equity of Allstate as of immediately
prior to the sale or disposition. Consolidated Total Shareholders  Equity
means, at any date, the total shareholders  equity of Allstate and its
Subsidiaries at such date, as reported in the consolidated financial statements
prepared in accordance with GAAP.  

1.19                              Code   means the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended. Any reference to any section of the Code shall also refer
to any successor provision. 

1.20                              Company   means Allstate, AIC and each
of Allstate s other Subsidiaries. 

1.21                              Company Certificate     see Section 5.1(b). 

1.22                              Company Counsel Opinion     see Section 5.5. 

1.23                              Competitive Business   means as of any
date (including during the one-year period commencing on the Termination Date)
any corporation or other Person (and any branch, office or operation thereof)
that engages in, or proposes to engage in: 

(a)                                     the underwriting, reinsurance, marketing or
sale of (i) any form of insurance of any kind that the Company as of such
date does, or proposes to, underwrite, reinsure, market or sell (any such form
of insurance, an   Allstate Insurance Product  ) or (ii) any other
form of insurance that is marketed or sold in competition with any Allstate
Insurance Product, or 

(b)                                    any other business that as of such date is a
direct and material competitor of the Company; 

4  

and that is located (i) anywhere in the United
States, or (ii) anywhere outside of the United States where the Company is
then engaged in, or proposes to engage in, any of such activities.  

1.24                              Consummation Date   means the date on
which a Reorganization Transaction is consummated. 

1.25                              Disability     see Section 3.1(b). 

1.26                              Disability Effective Date     see Section 3.1. 

1.27                              Effective Date   means the date on
which a Change of Control first occurs during the Agreement Term. 

1.28                              Exchange Act   means the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. 

1.29                              Excise Taxes     see Section 5.1. 

1.30                              Executive Counsel Opinion     see Section 5.5. 

1.31                              Executive s Gross-Up Determination    
see Section 5.2(a). 

1.32                              Exempt Reorganization Transaction  
means a Reorganization Transaction that fails to result in (a) any Person
or group (as such term is
defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)) becoming a More than 30% Owner or a Majority
Owner, (b) Board Turnover, or (c) a sale or disposition to any Person
or group (as such term is
defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B))of the assets of Allstate that have a total
Gross Fair Market Value (as defined below) equal to at least forty percent
(40%) of the total Gross Fair Market Value of all of the assets of Allstate
immediately before such transaction.   Gross Fair Market Value   means the
value of the assets of Allstate, or the value of the assets being disposed of,
determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets. 

1.33                              Good Reason     see Section 3.4(b). 

1.34                              Gross-up Multiple     see Section 5.4. 

1.35                              Gross-up Payment     see Section 5.1. 

1.36                              including   means including without
limitation. 

1.37                              IRS   means the Internal Revenue
Service. 

1.38                              IRS Claim     see Section 5.6. 

5  

1.39                              Legal and Other Expenses     see Section 6.1(a). 

1.40                              LTIP   means the Allstate Long-Term
Executive Incentive Compensation Plan (or any successor plan). 

1.41                              LTIP Award   means an incentive
compensation opportunity granted under the LTIP. 

1.42                              LTIP Bonus   means the amount paid or
earned in respect of an LTIP Award. 

1.43                              LTIP Performance Period   means any
performance period designated in accordance with any LTIP approved by the Board
or any committee of the Board. 

1.44                              LTIP Target Award   means, in respect
of any LTIP Award, the amount that Executive would have been entitled to
receive for the LTIP Performance Period corresponding to such LTIP Award if the
performance goals established pursuant to such LTIP Award were achieved at the
100% level as of the end of the LTIP Performance Period. 

1.45                              Lump Sum Value   of an annuity payable
pursuant to a defined benefit plan means, as of a specified date, the present
value of such annuity, as determined, as of such date, under generally accepted
actuarial principles using (i) the applicable interest rate, mortality
tables and other methods and assumptions under Code Section 417(e) as
published by the IRS and used for determining the value of an immediate annuity
on the Termination Date or (ii) if such interest rate and mortality
assumptions are no longer published by the IRS, the interest rate and mortality
assumptions determined in a manner as similar as practicable to the manner by
which the Code Section 417(e) interest rate and mortality assumptions
were determined immediately prior to the IRS s cessation of publication of such
assumptions; provided, however, that if such defined benefit plan provides for
a lump sum distribution and such lump-sum distribution either (x) is the
only payment method available under such plan or (y) provides for a
greater amount than the Lump Sum Value of the Maximum Annuity available under such
plan, then  Lump Sum Value  shall mean such lump sum amount. 

1.46                              Maximum Annuity   means, in respect of
a defined benefit plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code), an annuity computed in whatever manner permitted under such plan
(including frequency of annuity payments, attained age (whether determined as
of a current date or as of a future date upon the commencement of annuity
payments), and nature of surviving spouse benefits, if any) that yields the
greatest Lump Sum Value. 

1.47                              More than 30% Owner     see paragraph (a) of
the definition of  Change of Control.  

1.48                              Notice of Consideration     see Section 3.3(c). 

1.49                              Non-Qualified Plan     see Section 2.4. 

6  

1.50                                Notice of Termination   means a
written notice given in accordance with Section 10.8 that sets forth (i) the
specific termination provision in this Agreement relied on by the party giving
such notice, (ii) in reasonable detail the specific facts and circumstances
claimed to provide a basis for such Termination of Employment, and (iii) if
the Termination Date is other than the date of receipt of such Notice of
Termination, the Termination Date. 

1.51                                Person   means any individual, sole
proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust,
unincorporated organization, association, corporation, institution, public
benefit corporation, entity or government instrumentality, division, agency,
body or department. 

1.52                                Plans   means plans, programs, or
Policies of the Company. 

1.53                                Policies   means policies, practices
or procedures of the Company. 

1.54                                Post-Change Period   means the period
commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the second anniversary of the
Effective Date. 

1.55                                Potential Parachute Payments     see Section 5.1. 

1.56                                Pro-rata Annual Bonus   means, in
respect of the Company s fiscal year during which the Termination Date occurs,
an amount equal to the product of Executive s Target Annual Bonus (determined
as of the Termination Date) multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which
equals the number of days from and including the first day of such fiscal year
through and including the Termination Date, and the denominator of which equals
365. 

1.57                                Pro-rata LTIP Bonus   means an amount
equal to the sum of each of the following amounts:  for each LTIP Performance Period that is in
effect as of a Termination Date, Executive s LTIP Target Award for such LTIP
Performance Period multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which equals the
number of days from and including the beginning of such LTIP Performance Period
through and including the Termination Date, and the denominator of which equals
the aggregate number of days in such LTIP Performance Period. 

1.58                                Refund Claim     see Section 5.6. 

1.59                                Reorganization Transaction     see
clause (d) of the definition of  Change of Control.  

1.60                                Restricted Shares   means shares of
restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar awards. 

1.61                                SEC   means the Securities and
Exchange Commission. 

7  

1.62                                Section   means, unless the context
otherwise requires, a section of this Agreement. 

1.63                                SERP   means a supplemental executive
retirement Plan that is a Non-Qualified Plan. 

1.64                                Stock Options   means stock options,
stock appreciation rights (including limited stock appreciation rights), or
similar awards. 

1.65                                Subsidiary   means any corporation,
business trust, limited liability company or partnership with respect to which
Allstate owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities representing more than
50% of the aggregate voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Securities. 

1.66                                Surviving Corporation   means the
corporation resulting from a Reorganization Transaction or, if securities
representing at least 50% of the aggregate Voting Power of such resulting
corporation are directly or indirectly owned by another corporation, such other
corporation. 

1.67                                Target Annual Bonus   as of any date
means the amount equal to the product of Base Salary determined as of such date
multiplied by the percentage of such Base Salary to which Executive would have
been entitled immediately prior to such date under any Bonus Plan for the
Annual Performance Period for which the Annual Bonus is awarded if the
performance goals established pursuant to such Bonus Plan were achieved at the
100% level as of the end of the Annual Performance Period. 

1.68                                Taxes   means federal, state, local
and other income, employment and other taxes. 

1.69                                Termination Date   means the date of
the receipt of the Notice of Termination by Executive (if such Notice is given
by the Company) or by the Company (if such Notice is given by Executive), or
any later date, not more than 15 days after the giving of such Notice,
specified in such Notice; provided, however, that: 

(a)                                     if Executive s employment is terminated by
reason of death or Disability, the Termination Date shall be the date of
Executive s death or the Disability Effective Date (as defined in Section 3.1(a)),
as applicable; and 

(b)                                    if no Notice of Termination is given, the
Termination Date shall be the last date on which Executive is employed by the
Company. 

1.70                                Termination of Employment   means any termination of Executive s
employment with the Company, whether such occurs by reason of (a) the
initiative of any Company or Executive or (b) the death of Executive;
provided that such termination is also a  separation from service  within the
meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.409A-1(h). 

8  

1.71                                Voting Securities   of a corporation
means securities of such corporation that are entitled to vote generally in the
election of directors of such corporation. 

ARTICLE II. 
POST-CHANGE PERIOD  

2.1                                     Position and Duties . 

(a)                                     During the Post-Change Period, (x) Executive s
authority, responsibilities (not including reporting responsibilities), and
duties shall be at least commensurate in all material respects with the most
significant of those held, exercised and assigned at any time during the 90-day
period immediately before the Effective Date and (y) Executive s services
shall be performed at the location where Executive was employed immediately
before the Effective Date or any other location which does not constitute a
material geographic change from the former location. 

(b)                                    During the Post-Change Period (except during
any periods of vacation to which Executive is entitled and any authorized sick,
disability or other leave of absence), Executive shall devote Executive s full attention
and time to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent
necessary to discharge the duties assigned to Executive in accordance with this
Agreement, to use Executive s best efforts to perform such duties.  During the Post-Change Period, Executive may (i) serve
on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (ii) deliver
lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and
(iii) manage personal investments, so long as such activities are
consistent with the Policies of the Company at the Effective Date and do not
significantly interfere with the performance of Executive s duties under this
Agreement.  To the extent that any such
activities have been conducted by Executive immediately prior to the Effective
Date and were consistent with the Policies of the Company at the Effective
Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or activities similar in nature
and scope) after the Effective Date shall not be deemed to interfere with the
performance of Executive s duties under this Agreement. 

2.2                                     Compensation . 

(a)                                      Base Salary .  During the Post-Change Period,
the Company shall pay or cause to be paid to Executive an annual base salary in
cash, which shall be paid in a manner consistent with the Company s payroll
practices in effect immediately before the Effective Date, at an annual rate
not less than 12 times the highest monthly base salary paid or payable to
Executive by the Company in respect of the 12-month period immediately before
the Effective Date (such annual rate salary, the   Base Salary  ).  During the Post-Change Period, the Base
Salary shall be reviewed at least annually and shall be increased at any time
and from time to time as shall be substantially consistent with increases in
base salary awarded to other peer executives of the Company. Any increase in
Base Salary shall not limit or  

9  

reduce any other obligation of the Company to Executive under this
Agreement.  After any such increase, the
Base Salary shall not be reduced and  Base Salary  shall thereafter refer to
the increased amount.  

(b)                                     Annual Bonus .  The
Company shall also pay or cause to be paid to Executive a bonus (the   Annual
Bonus  ), which shall not be less than the Target Annual Bonus determined as
of the Effective Date, for each Annual Performance Period that ends during the
Post-Change Period.    Annual
Performance Period   means each period designated in accordance with any
annual bonus arrangement or Plan (a   Bonus Plan  ) that is based on
performance and approved by the Board or any committee of the Board, or in the
absence of any Bonus Plan or any such designated period of time, each calendar
year. 

(c)                                      LTIP Bonus .  The Company shall also: 

(i)                                        pay or cause to be paid to Executive an LTIP
Bonus equal to the LTIP Target Award for each LTIP Award for which an LTIP
Performance Period is in effect as of the Effective Date; and 

(ii)                                     throughout the Post-Change Period, grant LTIP
Awards to Executive as follows: 

(1)                                     LTIP Awards shall be granted no less
frequently than is contemplated by the terms of the LTIP and the Company s
practices thereunder, as such terms and practices are in effect immediately
prior to the Effective Date; 

(2)                                     each such LTIP Award shall provide for the
payment of a percentage of Executive s Base Salary in effect at the beginning
of the Performance Period applicable to such LTIP Award that is no less than
the average of the Target LTIP Percentages (as defined below) for all of
Executive s LTIP Awards outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Date;
and 

(3)                                     the target performance goals established for
each such LTIP Award shall be substantially comparable to the target
performance goals under Executive s LTIP Awards outstanding on the Effective
Date; 

Target LTIP Percentage   means, in respect of any LTIP Award,
the percentage of Executive s Base Salary (determined as of the beginning of
the applicable LTIP Performance Period) that Executive would be entitled to
receive after the completion of the applicable LTIP Performance Period if the
performance goals applicable to such LTIP Award as of the date immediately
prior to the Effective Date were achieved at the 100% level.  

10  

(d)                                     Incentive, Savings and Retirement Plans . 
Executive shall also be entitled to participate during the Post-Change
Period in all cash and equity incentive (including long-term incentives),
savings and retirement Plans applicable to other peer executives of the
Company, but in no event shall such Plans provide Executive with incentive
(including long-term incentives), savings and retirement benefits during the
Post-Change Period that are materially less valuable or have terms materially
less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most valuable and favorable of those
provided by the Company for Executive under such Plans as in effect at any time
during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective Date. 

(e)                                      Welfare Benefit Plans . 
During the Post-Change Period, Executive and Executive s family shall be
eligible to participate in, and receive all benefits under, welfare benefit
Plans provided by the Company (including medical, prescription, dental,
disability, salary continuance, individual life, group life, dependent life,
accidental death and travel accident insurance Plans) and applicable to other
peer executives of the Company and their families, but in no event shall such
Plans provide benefits during the Post-Change Period that are materially less
favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided to
Executive under such Plans as in effect at any time during the 90-day period
immediately before the Effective Date. 

(f)                                        Fringe Benefits . 
During the Post-Change Period, Executive shall be entitled to fringe
benefits in accordance with the most favorable Plans applicable to peer
executives of the Company, but in no event shall such Plans provide fringe
benefits that are materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most
favorable of those provided by the Company to Executive under such Plans in
effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective
Date. 

(g)                                     Expenses .  During the Post-Change Period,
Executive shall be entitled to prompt reimbursement of all reasonable
employment-related expenses incurred by Executive upon the Company s receipt of
accountings in accordance with the most favorable Policies applicable to peer
executives of the Company, but in no event shall such Policies be materially
less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of those provided by
the Company for Executive under such Policies in effect at any time during the
90-day period immediately before the Effective Date. 

(h)                                     Office and Support Staff . 
During the Post-Change Period, Executive shall be entitled to an office
or offices of a size and with furnishings and other appointments, and to
secretarial and other assistance in accordance with the most favorable Policies
applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no event shall such
Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than the most
favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under such Policies in
effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the Effective
Date. 

11  

(i)                                         Vacation .  During the Post-Change Period,
Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most
favorable Policies applicable to peer executives of the Company, but in no
event shall such Policies be materially less favorable, in the aggregate, than
the most favorable of those provided by the Company for Executive under such
Policies in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately before the
Effective Date. 

2.3                                     Stock Incentive Awards .  On
the Effective Date of a Change of Control (i) all of Executive s unvested
Stock Options then outstanding (whether granted before or after the Agreement
Date) shall immediately become fully vested and exercisable, and (ii) all
of Executive s Restricted Shares then outstanding shall immediately become
fully vested and nonforfeitable.  This Section amends
all award agreements dated as of any date before the Agreement Date.  Accordingly, all provisions of such award
agreements relating to a change of control of the Company, including all grants
of limited stock appreciation rights, are hereby cancelled effective as of the
Agreement Date. 

2.4                                     Unfunded Deferred Compensation .  On
the Effective Date of a Change of Control, Executive shall become fully vested
in all benefits previously accrued under any deferred compensation Plan
(including a SERP) that is not qualified under Section 401(a) of the
Code (a   Non-Qualified Plan  ). 
Within five business days after the Effective Date of a Change of
Control, the Company shall pay to Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to: 

(a)                                     the sum of the Lump-Sum Values of all Maximum
Annuities that are payable pursuant to all defined benefit Non-Qualified Plans,
plus 

(b)                                    the sum of Executive s account balances under
all defined contribution Non-Qualified Plans. 

To the extent that, if, for any reason, any portion of such
Non-Qualified Plan benefit is not so paid, the Company shall pay Executive in
lieu thereof a lump-sum cash payment equal to such unpaid portion within the
five-business day period specified in the preceding sentence.  

ARTICLE III. 
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

3.1                                    Disability . 

(a)                                     During the Post-Change Period, the Company
may terminate Executive s employment because of Executive s Disability by
giving Executive or his legal representative, as applicable, (i) written
notice in accordance with Section 10.8 of the Company s intention to
terminate Executive s employment pursuant to this Section and (ii) a
certification of Executive s Disability by a physician selected by the Company
or its insurers, subject to the consent of Executive or Executive s legal
representative, which consent shall not be 

12  

unreasonably withheld or delayed. 
Executive s employment shall terminate effective on the 30th day (the   Disability
Effective Date  ) after Executive s receipt of such notice unless, before
the Disability Effective Date, Executive shall have resumed the full-time
performance of Executive s duties.  

(b)                                      Disability   means any medically
determinable physical or mental impairment of an Executive that: 

(i)                                        has lasted for a continuous period of not
less than (x) six months or (y) such longer period, if any, that is
available to Executive under the Company s Policies relating to the
continuation of employee status after the onset of disability, as such Policies
are in effect when Disability is determined, but in no event shall such
Policies be materially less favorable to the Executive than the most favorable
of such Policies in effect for peer executives at any time during the 90-day
period immediately before the Effective Date, 

(ii)                                     can be expected to be permanent or of
indefinite duration, and 

(iii)                                  renders Executive unable to perform the
duties required under this Agreement. 

3.2                                     Death .  Executive s employment shall
terminate automatically upon Executive s death during the Post-Change Period. 

3.3                                     Cause . 

(a)                                     During the Post-Change Period, the Company
may terminate Executive s employment for Cause solely in accordance with all of
the substantive and procedural provisions of this Section. 

(b)                                      Cause   means any one or more of the
following: 

(i)                                       Executive s conviction of a felony or other
crime involving fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude; 

(ii)                                   Executive s willful or reckless material
misconduct in the performance of Executive s duties; 

(iii)                                Executive s habitual neglect of duties; or 

(iv)                                 Executive s willful or intentional breach of
this Agreement; 

provided, however, that for purposes of clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv),
Cause shall not include any one or more of the following:  

13  

(1)                                     bad judgment or negligence; 

(2)                                     any act or omission believed by Executive in
good faith to have been in or not opposed to the interest of the Company
(without intent of Executive to gain, directly or indirectly, a profit to which
Executive was not legally entitled); 

(3)                                     any act or omission with respect to which a
determination could properly have been made by the Board that Executive had
satisfied the applicable standard of conduct for indemnification or
reimbursement under Allstate s by-laws, any applicable indemnification
agreement, or applicable law, in each case as in effect at the time of such act
or omission; or 

(4)                                     any act or omission with respect to which
Executive receives a Notice of Consideration (as defined below) more than six
months after the earliest date on which any member of the Board, not a party to
the act or omission, knew or should have known of such act or omission; and 

further provided, that if a breach of this Agreement involved an act or
omission based on Executive s good faith and reasonable belief that Executive s
act or omission was in the best interests of the Company or was required by
applicable law or administrative regulation, such breach shall not constitute
Cause unless the Company gives Executive written notice of such breach that
specifically refers to this Section and, within 30 days after such notice
is given, Executive fails to cure such breach to the fullest extent that it is
curable.  

(c)                                     The Company shall strictly observe each of
the following procedures in connection with any Termination of Employment for
Cause: 

(i)                                        A meeting of the Board shall be called for
the stated purpose of determining whether Executive s acts or omissions satisfy
the requirements of Section 3.3(b) and, if so, whether to terminate
Executive s employment for Cause. 

(ii)                                     Not less than 30 days prior to the date of
such Board meeting, the Company shall provide Executive and each member of the
Board written notice (a   Notice of Consideration  ) that includes (x) a
detailed description of the acts or omissions alleged to constitute Cause, (y) the
date, time and location of such meeting of the Board and (z) Executive s
rights under clause (iii) below. 

(iii)                                  Executive shall have the opportunity to
present to the Board a written response to the Notice of Consideration.  Executive shall not have any right to appear
before the Board. 

14  

(iv)                                 Executive s employment may be terminated for
Cause only if (x) the acts or omissions specified in the Notice of
Consideration did in fact occur and do constitute Cause as defined in this
Section, (y) the Board makes a specific determination to such effect and
to the effect that Executive s employment should be terminated for Cause and (z) the
Company thereafter provides Executive with a Notice of Termination which
specifies in specific detail the basis of such Termination of Employment for
Cause and which Notice shall be consistent with the reasons set forth in the
Notice of Consideration.  The Board s
determination specified in clause (y) of the preceding sentence shall
require the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the members of the Board. 

(v)                                    In the event that the existence of Cause shall
become an issue in any action or proceeding between the Company and Executive,
the Company shall, notwithstanding the determination referenced in clause (iv) of
this Section 3.3(c), have the burden of establishing that the actions or
omissions specified in the Notice of Consideration did in fact occur and do
constitute Cause and that the Company has satisfied the procedural requirements
of this Section 3.3(c).  The
satisfaction of the Company s burden shall require clear and convincing
evidence. 

3.4                                     Good Reason . 

(a)                                     During the Post-Change Period, Executive may
terminate his employment for Good Reason in accordance with the substantive and
procedural provisions of this Section.  A
Termination of Employment for Good Reason will be deemed to have occurred
during the Post-Change Period if Executive gives notice as provided in Section 3.4(d) within
the Post-Change Period and the Termination of Employment is no more than thirty
(30) days after the expiration of the cure period described in Section 3.4(e). 

(b)                                      Good Reason   means the first to occur
of the following actions or omissions that, unless otherwise specified, occurs
during a Post-Change Period without the consent of Executive: 

(i)                                        a material diminution in Executive s base
compensation; 

(ii)                                     any material diminution in Executive s
authority, duties, or responsibilities as set forth in Paragraph 2.1(a); 

(iii)                                  any material diminution in the authority,
duties, or responsibilities of the person to whom Executive reports; 

(iv)                                 a material change in the geographic location
at which Executive must perform services; or 

15  

(v)                                    any other action or inaction that constitutes
a material breach of this Agreement by the Company. 

(c)                                     Any reasonable determination by Executive
that any of the events specified in subsection (b) above has occurred and
constitutes Good Reason shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes,
unless the Company establishes by clear and convincing evidence that Executive
did not have any reasonable basis for such determination. 

(d)                                    In the event of any Termination of Employment
by Executive for Good Reason, Executive shall notify the Company of the events
constituting such Good Reason by a Notice of Termination within ninety days of
the date Executive should have known of the events constituting Good Reason. 

(e)                                      Company shall have thirty days from the date
Executive provides Notice of Termination pursuant to Section 3.4(d) to
remedy the conditions constituting Good Reason during which period no
termination for Good Reason shall be deemed to have occurred. 

(f)                                       If the Company has not remedied the
conditions constituting Good Reason within the thirty-day period described in Section 3.4(e),
then, in order for Executive s termination to constitute a termination for Good
Reason, the date of Termination of Employment must occur no later than twelve
(12) months after the date of the first action or omission constituting Good Reason. 

ARTICLE IV. 
COMPANY S OBLIGATIONS UPON A TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT  

4.1                                     If by Executive for Good Reason or by the
Company Other Than for Cause or Disability .  If, during the Post-Change
Period, the Company terminates Executive s employment other than for Cause or
Disability, or if Executive terminates employment for Good Reason, the Company s
sole obligations to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall
be as follows: 

(a)                                     The Company shall pay Executive, in addition
to all vested rights arising from Executive s employment as specified in Article II,
a lump-sum cash amount equal to the sum of the following: 

(i)                                        all Accrued Obligations; 

(ii)                                     Executive s Pro-rata Annual Bonus reduced
(but not below zero) by the amount of any Annual Bonus paid to Executive with
respect to the Company s fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs; 

16  

(iii)                                Executive s Pro-rata LTIP Bonus reduced (but
not below zero) by the amount of any LTIP Bonus paid to Executive with respect
to the Company s fiscal year in which the Termination Date occurs; 

(iv)                               all amounts previously deferred by, or
accrued to the benefit of, Executive under any defined contribution
Non-Qualified Plans, whether or not vested, together with any accrued earnings
thereon, to the extent that such amounts and earnings have not been previously
paid by the Company (whether pursuant to Section 2.4 or otherwise); 

(v)                                  an amount equal to two (2.0) times the sum of
(y) Base Salary, and (z) the Target Annual Bonus, each determined as
of the Termination Date; provided, however, that any reduction in Executive s
Base Salary or Target Annual Bonus that would qualify as Good Reason shall be
disregarded for this purpose; and 

(vi)                               to the extent not paid pursuant to clause (iv) of
this Section 4.1(a), an amount equal to the sum of the value of the
unvested portion of Executive s accounts or accrued benefits under any defined
contribution Plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code) maintained by the Company as of the Termination Date and forfeited by
Executive by reason of the Termination of Employment. 

Such lump-sum amount shall be
paid no more than five business days after the date of Termination of
Employment.  

(b)                                  The Company shall pay Executive, in lieu of
all benefits under all defined benefit Non-Qualified Plans that have accrued on
or before the Termination Date but remain unpaid as of such date, a lump-sum
cash amount equal to the positive difference, if any, between: 

(i)                                      the sum of the Lump-Sum Values of each
Maximum Annuity that would be payable to Executive under any defined benefit
Plan (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code) if
Executive had: 

(1)                                   become fully vested in all such benefits to
the extent that such benefits are unvested as of the Termination Date, 

(2)                                   attained as of the Termination Date an age
that is two years greater than Executive s actual age, 

(3)                                   accrued a number of years of service (for
purposes of determining the amount of such benefits, entitlement to early
retirement benefits, and all other purposes of such defined benefit plans) that
is two years greater than the number of years of service actually accrued by
Executive as of the Termination Date, and 

17  

(4)                                   received the lump-sum severance benefits
specified in Section 4.1(a) (excluding all LTIP Bonuses, and all
amounts in respect of Stock Options or Restricted Shares, if any) as covered
compensation in equal monthly installments during the two-year period following
Termination of Employment, 

minus  

(ii)                                   the sum of (x) the Lump-Sum Values of
the Maximum Annuity benefits vested and payable (whether currently or at some
future date) to Executive under each defined benefit Plan that is qualified
under Section 401(a) of the Code and (y) the aggregate amounts
simultaneously or previously paid (whether pursuant to Section 2.4 or otherwise)
to Executive under the defined benefit Plans (whether or not qualified under Section 401(a) of
the Code) described in clause (i) of this Section 4.1(b). 

Such lump-sum amount shall
be paid no more than five business days after the date of Termination of
Employment.  

(c)                                   (i) On the date of Termination of
Employment, all of Executive s unvested Stock Options then outstanding (whether
granted before or after the Agreement Date) shall immediately become fully
vested and exercisable, and (ii) all of Executive s Restricted Shares then
outstanding shall immediately become fully vested and nonforfeitable. This Section
amends all award agreements dated as of any date before the Agreement Date.
Accordingly, all provisions of such award agreements relating to a change of
control of the Company, including all grants of limited stock appreciation
rights, are hereby cancelled effective as of the Agreement Date. 

(d)                                  All of Executive s then-outstanding Stock
Options that were granted after the Agreement Date, whether vested on or before
the date of Termination of Employment, shall thereafter remain exercisable
until the last to occur of (x) the first anniversary of the date of
Termination of Employment, and (y) any period provided in the applicable
stock option agreement or stock option plan as then in effect, but in no event
shall such period of exercisability continue after the earlier of (i) the
date on which such Stock Options would have expired if Executive had remained
an employee of the Company, or (ii) the tenth anniversary of the original
date of the Stock Option grant. 

(e)                                   Within five business days after the date of
Executive s Termination of Employment, the Company shall deliver to Executive
certificates for all Restricted Shares theretofore held by or on behalf of the
Company. 

(f)                                     The Company shall pay on behalf of Executive
all reasonable fees and costs charged by the outplacement firm selected by
Executive to provide outplacement services to  

18  

Executive that are incurred
no later than the end of the second year following the year in which the
Termination of Employment occurs.  

(g)                                  During the period of time which Executive
would be entitled to continuation coverage under a Company-sponsored group
health plan under Section 4980 of the Code or such later date as any Plan
may specify, the Company shall continue to make available to Executive and
Executive s family welfare benefits (including medical, prescription, dental,
disability, salary continuance, individual life, group life, accidental death
and travel accident insurance plans and programs) that are at least as
favorable as the most favorable Plans of the Company applicable to other peer
executives and their families as of the Termination Date, but which are in no
event less favorable than the most favorable Plans of the Company applicable to
other peer executives and their families during the 90-day period immediately
before the Effective Date. The cost of such welfare benefits, including
continuation coverage required by Section 4980 of the Code ( COBRA ), to
Executive shall not exceed the cost of such benefits to Executive immediately
before the Termination Date or, if less, the Effective Date. Executive s rights
under this Section shall be co-extensive with any post-termination
continuation coverage Executive may have pursuant to applicable law, including
COBRA. Accordingly, in order to receive this coverage, Executive shall timely
elect continuation coverage under COBRA for Executive and Executive s covered
dependents. Notwithstanding any of the above, such welfare benefits shall be
secondary to any similar welfare benefits provided by Executive s subsequent
employer as provided in the Plans. 

4.2                                     If by the Company for Cause .  If
the Company terminates Executive s employment for Cause during the Post-Change
Period, the Company s sole obligation to Executive under Sections 2.1 and 2.2
and this Article shall be to pay Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal to
all Accrued Obligations determined as of the Termination Date. 

4.3                                     If by Executive Other Than for Good Reason .  If
Executive terminates employment during the Post-Change Period other than for
Good Reason, Disability or death, the Company s sole obligation to Executive
under Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be to pay Executive a
lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations determined as of the
Termination Date. 

4.4                                     If by the Company for Disability .  If
the Company terminates Executive s employment by reason of Executive s Disability
during the Post-Change Period, the Company s sole obligation to Executive under
Sections 2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be as follows: 

(a)                                   to pay Executive a lump-sum cash amount equal
to all Accrued Obligations determined as of the Termination Date, and 

(b)                                  to provide Executive disability and other
benefits after the Termination Date that are not less favorable to Executive
than the most favorable of such benefits then available under Plans of the
Company to disabled peer executives of the Company. 

19  

Such disability and other benefits shall also be not
materially less favorable, in the aggregate, to Executive than the most
favorable of the disability and other benefits available to Executive under such
Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day period immediately preceding the
Effective Date.  

4.5                                     If Upon Death .  If
Executive s employment is terminated by reason of Executive s death during the
Post-Change Period, the Company s sole obligations to Executive under Sections
2.1 and 2.2 and this Article shall be as follows: 

(a)                                   to pay Executive s estate or Beneficiary a
lump-sum cash amount equal to all Accrued Obligations; and 

(b)                                  to provide Executive s estate or Beneficiary
survivor and other benefits that are not less than the most favorable survivor
and other benefits then available under Plans of the Company to the estates or
the surviving families of peer executives of the Company. 

Such survivor benefits shall also be no less
favorable, in the aggregate, than the most favorable of the survivor benefits
available to Executive under such Plans in effect at any time during the 90-day
period immediately preceding the Effective Date.  

4.6                                     Amount Contested . 

(a)                                   In the event of any dispute between the
Company and Executive as to the nature or extent of the Company s obligation to
make any payments or provide other benefits to Executive or Executive s family
pursuant to Sections 4.1 or 2.4, Executive shall have the right, exercisable by
written notice given to the Company within 90 days after the Executive believes
a payment or provision of benefits should have occurred, to obtain, within 30
days after the Company s receipt of Executive s demand therefor, a written
certificate prepared by the Company and certified by Allstate s independent
auditors (a   Section 4.6 Certificate  ). The Section 4.6
Certificate shall specify in detail either (i) the amount and nature of
each payment or other benefit that the Company believes is then due and owing
to Executive pursuant to Section 2.4 or 4.1, as applicable, or (ii) if
the Company asserts that the conditions to Executive s entitlement to severance
or other benefits pursuant to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, have for
any reason not been satisfied, the amount and nature of each payment or other
benefit that the Company believes would be due and owing to Executive pursuant
to Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, if all of such applicable conditions
had been fully satisfied. Executive may not demand more than one Section 4.6
Certificate in respect of his rights under Section 4.1 or more than one Section 4.6
Certificate in respect of his rights under Section 2.4. 

(b)                                  Each Section 4.6 Certificate shall
include schedules that specify in detail how each amount or other benefit
specified therein was computed, together with appropriate references to
specific provisions of this Agreement or of any applicable Plans or Policies of
the Company, copies of which Plans or Policies shall be attached to such
schedules. 

20  

(c)                                   The Company shall be precluded from asserting
that any portion of the payments or other benefits due to Executive pursuant to
Section 4.1 or 2.4, as applicable, is less than the amount specified in
the Section 4.6 Certificate. The Section 4.6 Certificate shall in no
event be binding on Executive and Executive shall have the right to assert that
any or all of the payments or other benefits to be provided pursuant to Section 4.1
or 2.4 are greater than or different from those specified in the Section 4.6
Certificate. 

(d)                                  If the Company shall for any reason fail to
deliver to Executive a Section 4.6 Certificate in compliance with this Section within
30 days after the Company s receipt of Executive s written demand therefor,
Executive s determination of the amount and nature of payments or other
benefits due to Executive (i) pursuant to Section 4.1 and set forth
in an Executive s Severance Determination (as defined below) or (ii) pursuant
to Section 2.4 and set forth in an Executive s Deferred Compensation
Determination (as defined below) shall be conclusive and binding for all
purposes of this Agreement unless the Company shall establish, by clear and
convincing evidence, that Executive s Severance Determination or Executive s
Deferred Compensation Determination, as applicable, is incorrect and that a
different amount (which may be zero or a positive amount) or nature of payments
or other benefits is correct.   Executive s Severance Determination  
means an opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation counsel to the
effect that the amount and nature of severance and other benefits due to
Executive pursuant to Section 4.1 is the amount and nature that a court of
competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further
appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with
this Agreement and applicable law.   Executive s Deferred Compensation
Determination   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive
compensation counsel to the effect that the amount of payments due to Executive
pursuant to Section 2.4 is the amount that a court of competent
jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further appeal, is most
likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with this Agreement and
applicable law. 

ARTICLE V.  

  CERTAIN ADDITIONAL PAYMENTS
BY THE COMPANY  

5.1                                     Gross-up for Certain Taxes . 

(a)                                   If it is determined by Allstate s independent
auditors that any monetary or other benefit received or deemed received by Executive
from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise,
whether or not in connection with a Change of Control (such monetary or other
benefits collectively, the   Potential Parachute Payments  ), is or will
become subject to any excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code or any
similar tax under any United States federal, state, local or other law other
than Section 409A of the Code (such excise tax and all such similar taxes
collectively,   Excise Taxes  ), then the Company shall, subject to
Sections 5.6 and 5.7, within five business days after such determination, pay Executive
an amount (the   Gross-Up Payment  ) equal to the product of: 

21  

(i)                                      the amount of such Excise Taxes 

multiplied
by  

(ii)                                   the Gross-Up Multiple (as defined in Section 5.4). 

The
Gross-Up Payment is intended to compensate Executive for all Excise Taxes
payable by Executive with respect to Potential Parachute Payments and all Taxes
or Excise Taxes payable by Executive with respect to the Gross-Up Payment. The
Company shall not compensate Executive for any taxes, penalties or interest
related to Section 409A of the Code payable by Executive.  

(b)                                  The determination of Allstate s independent
auditors described in Section 5.1(a), including the detailed calculations
of the amounts of the Potential Parachute Payments, Excise Taxes and Gross-Up
Payment and the assumptions relating thereto, shall be set forth in a written
certificate of such auditors (the   Company Certificate  ) delivered to
Executive. Executive or the Company may at any time request the preparation and
delivery to Executive of a Company Certificate. The Company shall cause the
Company Certificate to be delivered to Executive as soon as reasonably possible
after such request. 

5.2                                     Determination by Executive . 

(a)                                   If (i) the Company shall fail to deliver
a Company Certificate to Executive within 30 days after its receipt of his
written request therefor, or (ii) within 90 days after Executive s receipt
of a Company Certificate, Executive provides notice to Company that Executive
disputes either (x) the amount of the Gross-Up Payment set forth therein
or (y) the determination set forth therein to the effect that no Gross-Up
Payment is due by reason of Section 5.7 or otherwise, and Executive takes
further measures within 180 days to enforce the Gross-Up Payment, then
Executive may elect to require the Company to pay a Gross-Up Payment in the
amount determined by Executive as set forth in an Executive Counsel Opinion (as
defined in Section 5.5).  Any such
demand by Executive shall be made by delivery to the Company of a written
notice that specifies the Gross-Up Payment determined by Executive (together
with the detailed calculations of the amounts of Potential Parachute Payments,
Excise Taxes and Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions relating thereto) and an
Executive Counsel Opinion regarding such Gross-Up Payment (such written notice
and opinion collectively, the   Executive s Gross-Up Determination  ).  Within 30 days after delivery of an Executive s
Gross-Up Determination to the Company, the Company shall either (i) pay
Executive the Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Executive s Gross-Up
Determination (less the portion thereof, if any, previously paid to Executive
by the Company) or (ii) deliver to Executive a Company Certificate and a
Company Counsel Opinion (as defined in Section 5.5), and pay Executive the
Gross-Up Payment specified in such Company Certificate. If for any reason the
Company fails to comply with the preceding 

22  

sentence, the Gross-Up
Payment specified in the Executive s Gross-Up Determination shall be
controlling for all purposes.  

(b)                                  If Executive does not request a Company
Certificate, and the Company does not deliver a Company Certificate to
Executive, then (i) the Company shall, for purposes of Section 5.7,
be deemed to have determined that no Gross-Up Payment is due and (ii) Executive
shall not pay any Excise Taxes in respect of Potential Parachute Payments
except in accordance with Sections 5.6(a) or (d). 

5.3                                     Additional Gross-up Amounts . If for any reason (whether pursuant to
subsequently enacted provisions of the Code, other than Section 409A of
the Code, final regulations or published rulings of the IRS, a final judgment
of a court of competent jurisdiction, a determination of the Company s
independent auditors set forth in a Company Certificate or, subject to the last
two sentences of Section 5.2(a), an Executive s Gross-Up Determination) it
is later determined that the amount of Excise Taxes payable by Executive is
greater than the amount determined by the Company or Executive pursuant to Section 5.1
or 5.2, as applicable, then the Company shall, subject to Sections 5.6 and 5.7,
pay Executive within 30 days after the determination, an amount (which shall
also be deemed a Gross-Up Payment) equal to the product of: 

(a)                                   the sum of (i) such additional Excise
Taxes and (ii) any interest, penalties, expenses or other costs incurred
by Executive as a result of having taken a position in accordance with a
determination made pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable, 

multiplied by  

(b)                                  the Gross-Up Multiple. 

5.4                                     Gross-up Multiple . The   Gross-Up Multiple   shall equal
a fraction, the numerator of which is one (1.0), and the denominator of which
is one (1.0) minus the lesser of (i) the sum, expressed as a decimal
fraction, of the effective after-tax marginal rates of all Taxes and any Excise
Taxes applicable to the Gross-Up Payment or (ii) 0.80, it being intended
that the Gross-Up Multiple shall in no event exceed five (5.0).  (If different rates of tax are applicable to
various portions of a Gross-Up Payment, the weighted average of such rates
shall be used.)  For purposes of this
Section, Executive shall be deemed to be subject to the highest effective
after-tax marginal rate of Taxes. 

5.5                                     Opinion of Counsel .   Executive Counsel Opinion   means an
opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation counsel to the effect (i) that
the amount of the Gross-Up Payment determined by Executive pursuant to Section 5.2
is the amount that a court of competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment
not subject to further appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated
in accordance with this Article and applicable law and (ii) if the
Company has previously delivered a Company Certificate to Executive, that there
is no reasonable basis or no substantial authority for the calculation of the
Gross-Up Payment set forth in the Company Certificate.   Company Counsel
Opinion   means an opinion of nationally recognized executive compensation
counsel to the effect that (i) the amount of the Gross-Up Payment set
forth in the  

23  

Company Certificate is the amount that a court of
competent jurisdiction, based on a final judgment not subject to further
appeal, is most likely to decide to have been calculated in accordance with
this Article and applicable law and (ii) for purposes of Section 6662
of the Code, Executive has substantial authority to report on his federal
income tax return the amount of Excise Taxes set forth in the Company
Certificate.  

5.6                                     Amount Increased or Contested . 

(a)                                   Executive shall notify the Company in writing
(an   Executive s Notice  ) of any claim by the IRS or other taxing
authority (an   IRS Claim  ) that, if successful, would require the
payment by Executive of Excise Taxes in respect of Potential Parachute Payments
in an amount in excess of the amount of such Excise Taxes determined in
accordance with Section 5.1 or 5.2, as applicable. Executive s Notice
shall include the nature and amount of such IRS Claim, the date on which such
IRS Claim is due to be paid (the   IRS Claim Deadline ), and a copy of all
notices and other documents or correspondence received by Executive in respect
of such IRS Claim. Executive shall give the Executive s Notice as soon as
practicable, but no later than the earlier of (i) 10 business days after
Executive first obtains actual knowledge of such IRS Claim or (ii) five
business days before the IRS Claim Deadline; provided, however, that any
failure to give such Executive s Notice shall affect the Company s obligations
under this Article only to the extent that the Company is actually
prejudiced by such failure. If at least one business day before the IRS Claim
Deadline the Company shall: 

(i)                                        deliver to Executive a Company Certificate to
the effect that the IRS Claim has been reviewed by the Company s independent
auditors and, notwithstanding the IRS Claim, the amount of Excise Taxes,
interest or penalties payable by Executive is less than the amount specified in
the IRS Claim, 

(ii)                                     pay to Executive an amount (which shall also
be deemed a Gross-Up Payment) equal to the positive difference between the
product of (x) the amount of Excise Taxes, interest and penalties
specified in the Company Certificate, if any, multiplied by (y) the
Gross-Up Multiple, less the portion of such product, if any, previously paid to
Executive by the Company, and 

(iii)                                  direct Executive pursuant to Section 5.6(d) to
contest the balance of the IRS Claim, 

then Executive shall pay
only the amount, if any, of Excise Taxes, interest and penalties specified in
the Company Certificate. In no event shall Executive pay an IRS Claim earlier
than 30 days after having given an Executive s Notice to the Company (or, if
sooner, the IRS Claim Deadline).  

(b)                                  At any time after the payment by Executive of
any amount of Excise Taxes or related interest or penalties in respect of
Potential Parachute Payments (whether or not  

24  

such amount was based on a
Company Certificate, an Executive s Gross-Up Determination or an IRS Claim),
the Company may in its discretion require Executive to pursue a claim for a
refund (a   Refund Claim  ) of all or any portion of such Excise Taxes,
interest or penalties as the Company may specify by written notice to
Executive.  

(c)                                   If the Company notifies Executive in writing
that the Company desires Executive to contest an IRS Claim or to pursue a
Refund Claim, Executive shall: 

(i)                                        give the Company all information that it
reasonably requests in writing from time to time relating to such IRS Claim or
Refund Claim, as applicable, 

(ii)                                     take such action in connection with such IRS
Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) as the Company reasonably requests in
writing from time to time, including accepting legal representation with
respect thereto by an attorney selected by the Company, subject to the approval
of Executive (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), 

(iii)                                  cooperate with the Company in good faith to
contest such IRS Claim or pursue such Refund Claim, as applicable, 

(iv)                                 permit the Company to participate in any
proceedings relating to such IRS Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, and 

(v)                                    contest such IRS Claim or prosecute Refund
Claim (as applicable) to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in
a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the
Company may from time to time determine in its discretion. 

The Company shall control
all proceedings in connection with such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as
applicable) and in its discretion may cause Executive to pursue or forego any
and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the
IRS or other taxing authority in respect of such IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as
applicable); provided that (i) any extension of the statute of limitations
relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of Executive relating to the
IRS Claim is limited solely to such IRS Claim, (ii) the Company s control
of the IRS Claim or Refund Claim (as applicable) shall be limited to issues
with respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable, and (iii) Executive
shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue
raised by the IRS or other taxing authority.  

(d)                                  The Company may at any time in its discretion
direct Executive to (i) contest the IRS Claim in any lawful manner or (ii) pay
the amount specified in an IRS Claim and pursue a Refund Claim; provided,
however, that if the Company directs Executive to pay an IRS Claim and pursue a
Refund Claim, the Company shall advance the amount of such 

25  

payment to Executive on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify
Executive, on an after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise Taxes and related
interest or penalties imposed with respect to such advance.  

(e)                                     The Company shall pay directly all legal,
accounting and other costs and expenses (including additional interest and
penalties) incurred by the Company or Executive in connection with any IRS
Claim or Refund Claim, as applicable, and shall indemnify Executive, on an
after-tax basis, for any Taxes, Excise Taxes and related interest and penalties
imposed as a result of such payment of costs and expenses. 

5.7                                     Limitations on Gross-Up Payments . 

(a)                                     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article V,
if the aggregate After-Tax Amount (as defined below) of the Potential Parachute
Payments and Gross-Up Payment that, but for this Section 5.7, would be
payable to Executive, does not exceed 110% of the after-tax Floor Amount (as
defined below), then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to Executive and the aggregate
amount of Potential Parachute Payments payable to Executive shall be reduced
(but not below the Floor Amount) to the largest amount that would both (i) not
cause any Excise Taxes to be payable by Executive and (ii) not cause any
Potential Parachute Payments to become nondeductible by the Company by reason
of Section 280G of the Code (or any successor provision).  For purposes of the preceding sentence, Executive
shall be deemed to be subject to the highest effective after-tax marginal rate
of Taxes. 

(b)                                    For purposes of this Agreement: 

(i)                                          After-Tax Amount   means the portion
of a specified amount that would remain after payment of all Taxes and Excise
Taxes paid or payable by Executive in respect of such specified amount; and 

(ii)                                       Floor Amount   means the greatest
pre-tax amount of Potential Parachute Payments that could be paid to Executive
without causing Executive to become liable for any Excise Taxes in connection
therewith; and 

(iii)                                    After-Tax Floor Amount   means the
After-Tax Amount of the Floor Amount. 

5.8                                     Refunds .  If, after the receipt by
Executive of any payment or advance of Excise Taxes by the Company pursuant to
this Article, Executive receives any refund with respect to such Excise Taxes,
Executive shall (subject to the Company s complying with any applicable
requirements of Section 5.6) promptly pay the Company the amount of such
refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after Taxes
applicable thereto).  If, after the
receipt by Executive of an amount advanced by the Company pursuant to Section 5.6,
a determination is made that Executive shall not be entitled to any refund with
respect to such claim and the Company does not notify Executive in writing of
its intent to contest such determination within 30 days after the 

26  

Company receives written notice of such determination, then such
advance shall be forgiven and shall not be required to be repaid and the amount
of such advance shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up
Payment required to be paid.  Any contest
of a denial of refund shall be controlled by Section 5.6.  

ARTICLE VI.  

  EXPENSES AND INTEREST  

6.1                                     Legal and Other Expenses . 

(a)                                     If Executive incurs legal fees (including
fees in connection with the delivery of an Executive Counsel Opinion) or other
expenses (including expert witness and accounting fees) in an effort to
determine, secure, preserve, establish entitlement to, or obtain benefits under
this Agreement (collectively,   Legal and Other Expenses  ), the Company
shall, regardless of the outcome of such effort, pay or reimburse Executive for
such Legal and Other Expenses in accordance with Section 6.1(b). 

(b)                                    All Legal and Other Expenses shall be paid or
reimbursed on a monthly basis within 10 days after Allstate s receipt of
Executive s written request accompanied by evidence that such Legal and Other
Expenses were incurred. 

(c)                                     If Executive does not prevail (after
exhaustion of all available judicial remedies) in respect of a claim by Executive
or by the Company hereunder, and the Company establishes before a court of
competent jurisdiction, by clear and convincing evidence, that Executive had no
reasonable basis for his claim hereunder, or for his response to the Company s
claim thereunder, or acted in bad faith, no further payment of or reimbursement
for Legal and Other Expenses shall be due to Executive in respect of such claim
and Executive shall refund any amounts previously paid or reimbursed hereunder
with respect to such claim. 

6.2                                     Interest .  If the Company does not pay an
amount due to Executive under this Agreement within five business days after
such amount first became due and owing, interest shall accrue on such amount
from the date it became due and owing until the date of payment at an annual
rate equal to 200 basis points above the base commercial lending rate published
in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect from
time to time during the period of such nonpayment. 

ARTICLE VII.  

  NO SET-OFF OR MITIGATION  

7.1                                     No Set-off by Company . 
Executive s right to receive when due the payments and other benefits
provided for under this Agreement is absolute, unconditional and subject to no
set-off, counterclaim or legal or equitable defense.  Time is of the essence in the performance by
the 

27  

Company of its obligations under this Agreement.  Any claim that the Company may have against
Executive, whether for a breach of this Agreement or otherwise, shall be
brought in a separate action or proceeding and not as part of any action or
proceeding brought by Executive to enforce any rights against the Company under
this Agreement, except if (i) the Company s claim is determined by a court
to be a compulsory counterclaim under applicable law or (ii) if a court
determines that the Company would otherwise be materially prejudiced if its
claim were to be brought in a separate action.  

7.2                                     No Mitigation . 
Executive shall not have any duty to mitigate the amounts payable by the
Company under this Agreement by seeking new employment or self-employment
following termination.  Except as
specifically otherwise provided in this Agreement, all amounts payable pursuant
to this Agreement shall be paid without reduction regardless of any amounts of
salary, compensation or other amounts that may be paid or payable to Executive
as the result of Executive s employment by another employer or self-employment. 

ARTICLE VIII.  

  RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS  

8.1                                     Non-Competition .  If
Executive remains employed by the Company on the Effective Date, Executive
shall not at any time during the period beginning on the Effective Date and
ending on the first anniversary of the Termination Date, directly or
indirectly, in any capacity: 

(a)                                     engage or participate in, become employed by,
serve as a director of, or render advisory or consulting or other services in
connection with, any Competitive Business; provided, however, that this Section 8.1(a) shall
not preclude Executive from being an employee of, or consultant to, any
business unit of a Competitive Business if (i) such business unit does not
qualify as a Competitive Business in its own right and (ii) Executive does
not have any direct or indirect involvement in, or responsibility for, any
operations of such Competitive Business that cause it to qualify as a
Competitive Business; or 

(b)                                    make or retain any financial investment,
whether in the form of equity or debt, or own any interest, in any Competitive
Business; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall restrict
Executive from making an investment in any Competitive Business if such
investment (i) represents no more than 1% of the aggregate market value of
the outstanding capital stock or debt (as applicable) of such Competitive
Business, (ii) does not give Executive any right or ability, directly or
indirectly, to control or influence the policy decisions or management of such
Competitive Business, and (iii) does not create a conflict of interest
between Executive s duties under this Agreement and his interest in such
investment. 

28  

8.2                                     Non-Solicitation .  If
Executive remains employed by the Company on the Effective Date, Executive
shall not at any time during the period beginning on the Effective Date and
ending on the first anniversary of the Termination Date, directly or
indirectly: 

(a)                                     other than in connection with the good-faith
performance of his duties as an officer of the Company, encourage any employee
or agent of the Company to terminate his relationship with the Company; 

(b)                                    employ, engage as a consultant or adviser, or
solicit the employment or engagement as a consultant or adviser, of any
employee or agent of the Company (other than by the Company or its Affiliates),
or cause or encourage any Person to do any of the foregoing; 

(c)                                     establish (or take preliminary steps to
establish) a business with, or encourage others to establish (or take
preliminary steps to establish) a business with, any employee or agent of the
Company; or 

(d)                                    interfere with the relationship of the
Company with, or endeavor to entice away from the Company, any Person who or
which at any time during the period commencing one year prior to the Agreement
Date was or is a material customer or material supplier of, or maintained a
material business relationship with, the Company. 

8.3                                     Reasonableness of Restrictive Covenants . 

(a)                                     Executive acknowledges that the covenants
contained in Sections 8.1 and 8.2 are reasonable in the scope of the activities
restricted, the geographic area covered by the restrictions, and the duration
of the restrictions, and that such covenants are reasonably necessary to
protect the Company s relationships with its employees, customers and suppliers.  Executive further acknowledges such covenants
are essential elements of this Agreement and that, but for such covenants, the
Company would not have entered into this Agreement. 

(b)                                    The Company and Executive have each consulted
with their respective legal counsel and have been advised concerning the
reasonableness and propriety of such covenants. 
Executive acknowledges that his observance of the covenants contained in
Sections 8.1 and 8.2 will not deprive him of the ability to earn a livelihood
or to support his dependents. 

29  

8.4                                     Right to Injunction; Survival of Undertakings . 

(a)                                     In recognition of the necessity of the
limited restrictions imposed by Sections 8.1 and 8.2, the parties agree that it
would be impossible to measure solely in money the damages that the Company
would suffer if Executive were to breach any of his obligations under such
Sections.  Executive acknowledges that
any breach of any provision of such Sections would irreparably injure the
Company.  Accordingly, Executive agrees
that the Company shall be entitled, in addition to any other remedies to which
the Company may be entitled under this Agreement or otherwise, to an injunction
to be issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, to restrain any actual
breach, or threatened breach, of such provisions, and Executive hereby waives
any right to assert any defense that the Company has an adequate remedy at law
for any such breach. 

(b)                                    If a court determines that any of the
covenants included in this Article VIII is unenforceable in whole or in
part because of such covenant s duration or geographical or other scope, such
court may modify the duration or scope of such provision, as the case may be,
so as to cause such covenant as so modified to be enforceable. 

(c)                                     All of the provisions of this Article VIII
shall survive any Termination of Employment without regard to (i) the
reasons for such termination or (ii) the expiration of the Agreement Term. 

8.5                                     Non-Disparagement .  If
Executive remains employed by the Company on the Effective Date, Executive
shall not at any time during the two-year period commencing on the Termination
Date (a) make any written or oral statement that brings the Company or any
of its then-current or former employees, officers or agents into disrepute, or
tarnishes any of their images or reputations or (b) publish, comment on or
disseminate any statements suggesting or accusing the Company or any of its
then-current or former agents, employees or officers of any misconduct or
unlawful behavior.  This Section shall
not be deemed to be breached by testimony of Executive given in any judicial or
governmental proceeding that Executive reasonably believes to be truthful at
the time given or by any other action of Executive that he reasonably believes
is taken in accordance with the requirements of applicable law or
administrative regulation. 

30  

ARTICLE IX.  

  NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS  

9.1                                     Waiver of Certain Other Rights.   To
the extent Executive shall have received severance payments or other severance
benefits under any other Plan or agreement of the Company prior to receiving
severance payments or other severance benefits pursuant to Article IV, the
severance payments and other severance benefits under such Plan or agreement
shall reduce (but not below zero) the corresponding severance payments or other
severance benefits to which Executive shall be entitled under Article IV.  To the extent that Executive receives
payments or other benefits pursuant to Article IV, Executive hereby waives
the right to receive a corresponding amount of future severance payments or
other severance benefits under any other Plan or agreement of the Company.  To the extent that Executive receives
payments pursuant to Section 4.1(b), Executive hereby waives the right to
receive payments or other benefits under any Non-Qualified Plan that have
accrued as of the Termination Date.  To
the extent that Executive received payments or other benefits pursuant to Section 4.1(a)(ii) or
(iii), Executive hereby waives the right to receive any Annual Bonus or LTIP
Bonus payments with respect to the Annual Performance Period of LTIP
Performance Periods in effect as of the Termination Date. 

9.2                                     Other Rights . 
Except as expressly provided in Section 9.1, this Agreement shall
not prevent or limit Executive s continuing or future participation in any
benefit, bonus, incentive or other Plans provided by the Company and for which
Executive may qualify, nor shall this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such
rights as Executive may have under any other agreements with the Company.  Amounts that are vested benefits or which
Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any Plan and any other payment
or benefit required by law at or after the Termination Date shall be payable in
accordance with such Plan or applicable law except as expressly modified by
this Agreement. 

ARTICLE X.  

  MISCELLANEOUS  

10.1                               No Assignability .  This
Agreement is personal to Executive and without the prior written consent of the
Company shall not be assignable by Executive otherwise than by will or the laws
of descent and distribution.  This
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive s legal
representatives. 

10.2                               Successors .  This Agreement shall inure to
the benefit of and be binding on the Company and its successors and
assigns.  The Company will require any
successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or
otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company
to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and
to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such
succession had taken place.  Any
successor to the business or assets of the Company that assumes or agrees to
perform this Agreement by operation of law, contract, or otherwise shall be
jointly and severally liable with the Company under this Agreement as if such
successor were the Company. 

31  

10.3                               Payments to Beneficiary .  If
Executive dies before receiving amounts to which Executive is entitled under
this Agreement, such amounts shall be paid in a lump sum to one or more
beneficiaries designated in writing by Executive (each, a   Beneficiary  ),
or if none is so designated, to Executive s estate. 

10.4                               Non-Alienation of Benefits . 
Benefits payable under this Agreement shall not be subject in any manner
to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance,
charge, garnishment, execution or levy of any kind, either voluntary or
involuntary, before actually being received by Executive, and any such attempt
to dispose of any right to benefits payable under this Agreement shall be void. 

10.5                               No Deference . 
Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no determination
pursuant to, or interpretation of, this Agreement made by the board of
directors (or any committee thereof) of Allstate or any Successor Corporation
shall be entitled to any presumptive validity or other deference in connection
with any judicial or administrative proceeding relating to or arising under
this Agreement. 

10.6                               Severability .  If
any one or more Articles, Sections or other portions of this Agreement are
declared by any court or governmental authority to be unlawful or invalid, such
unlawfulness or invalidity shall not serve to invalidate any Article, Section or
other portion not so declared to be unlawful or invalid.  Any Article, Section or other portion so
declared to be unlawful or invalid shall be construed so as to effectuate the
terms of such Article, Section or other portion to the fullest extent
possible while remaining lawful and valid. 

10.7                               Amendments .  This Agreement shall not be
amended or modified except by written instrument executed by Executive,
Allstate and AIC. 

10.8                               Notices .  All notices and other
communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and delivered by hand,
by nationally recognized delivery service that promises overnight delivery, or
by first-class registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage
prepaid, addressed as follows: 

If to Executive, to Executive at his most recent home  

  address on file with the Company.  

If to Allstate or AIC:  

The Allstate Corporation  

  2775 Sanders Road  

  Northbrook, Illinois  60062  

  Attention:  General Counsel  

32  

or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the
other in writing.  Notice and
communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.  

10.9                               Counterparts .  This
Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be
deemed an original, but all of which together constitute one and the same
instrument. 

10.10                         Governing Law .  This
Agreement shall be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of the
State of Illinois, without regard to its choice of law principles. 

10.11                         Captions .  The captions of this Agreement
are not a part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. 

10.12                         Number and Gender . 
Wherever appropriate, the singular shall include the plural, the plural
shall include the singular, and the masculine shall include the feminine. 

10.13                         Tax Withholding .  The
Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement any Taxes
that are required to be withheld by any applicable law or regulation. 

10.14                         No Waiver .  Executive s failure to insist
upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement shall not be deemed
a waiver of such provision or any other provision of this Agreement.  A waiver of any provision of this Agreement
shall not be deemed a waiver of any other provision, and any waiver of any
default in any such provision shall not be deemed a waiver of any later default
thereof or of any other provision. 

10.15                         Joint and Several Liability .  The
obligations of Allstate and AIC to Executive under this Agreement shall be
joint and several. 

10.16                         No Rights Prior to Effective Date . 
Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, this
Agreement shall not entitle Executive to any compensation, severance or other
benefits of any kind prior to an Effective Date. 

10.17                        S ix-month Delay .  Any payment considered to be deferred
compensation under Section 409A of the Code and not subject to an
exception or exemption thereunder, shall not be paid to Executive prior to the
first business day following the date that is six (6) months after the
date of Executive s Termination of Employment. 
Any payments that would otherwise have been made to Executive during
such six (6) month period shall instead be aggregated and not paid to
Executive prior to the first business day following the date that is six (6) months
after the date of Executive s Termination of Employment.  Any payments subject to a six-month delay
shall be paid with interest which shall accrue from the date such payment
became due and owing until the date of payment at an annual rate equal to 200
basis points above the base commercial lending rate published in  The Wall Street Journal  in effect from time to time during
the six-month delay period.  Any payments
scheduled to be made after the date that is six (6) months after the
Termination 

33  

Date shall be paid to Executive in accordance with the other provisions
of this Agreement or applicable plan.  

10.18.                      Interpretation to Avoid 409A Penalties .  This
Agreement is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the
Code so as to avoid the imposition of excise taxes and penalties on the
Executive under Section 409A of the Code. 
The Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and administered
consistent with that intent. 

10.19                         Entire Agreement .  This
Agreement contains the entire understanding of Allstate, AIC and Executive with
respect to its subject matter. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Executive, Allstate and AIC have executed this
Amended and Restated Change of Control Employment Agreement.  

EXECUTIVE  

[Name of Executive]   

THE
  ALLSTATE CORPORATION  

By:  

Title:  

ALLSTATE
  INSURANCE COMPANY   

By:  

Title:  

34  

</EX-10.23>

<EX-10.33>
 5
 a2189233zex-10_33.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.33

EXHIBIT
10.33   

H.
  John Riley, Jr. 
  Chairman of The Compensation 
  and Succession Committee  

February 24,
2009  

Edward
M. Liddy  

Dear
Ed,  

This
letter is to document the compensation and perquisites that will be provided to
you following your retirement on April 30, 2008, that were approved by the
Board on April 15, 2008 and revised by the Board on February 24, 2009.  

The
Corporation will provide you with the following perquisites or will reimburse
you for the reasonable expenses in obtaining the following for a period of ten
years from the date of your retirement unless noted otherwise below:  

1)                 Office, secretary, and office equipment,
including computers and phones; 

  2)                 Tax preparation services for tax years
through 2011 on the same terms available to senior officers of Allstate
Insurance Company ( AIC  

  3)                 Executive Health Management program under the
terms made available to senior officers of AIC; 

  4)                 Use on a second priority basis of ground
transportation services using vehicles owned or leased by AIC and operated by
AIC employees for attendance at civic-related events; 

  5)                 Access to corporate travel and meeting
planning services used by AIC for reservations; 

  6)                 Use of AIC s Glen Club membership for a
period of ten years from your retirement date as long as AIC maintains a
membership; you will be responsible for paying, and the Corporation will not
reimburse you for, any charges or fees related to your actual use of the Glen
Club; 

  7)                 Your membership in the Commercial Club
through June 2009, the Economic Club of Chicago through June 2009,
the Chicago Club through October 2008, and the Metropolitan Club through December 2008; 

  8)                 Use of the 1953 Allstate Coupe from May 1
through September 30 of each year for a period of five years from the date
of your retirement; and 

  9)                 Other miscellaneous items for which the
Corporation has reimbursed you to date in the amount of $275.08. 

Notwithstanding
the provisions of the immediately preceding paragraph, Allstate will neither
provide to you, nor reimburse you for expenses in obtaining, the perquisites
listed in items 4, 5, 6 and 8, above, during the period that you are employed
by, or serve on the board of directors of, American International Group, Inc.
or any other competitor of Allstate. In addition, to the extent that you use the
perquisites listed in item 1 to conduct business on behalf of AIG or any other
competitor of Allstate, you will arrange for the Corporation to be reimbursed.  

With
regard to compensation, your salary, and long-term cash incentive awards for
the 2007-2009 and 2008-2010 performance cycles will be prorated based on your
retirement date of April 30, 2008.  The long-term cash incentive
award for the 2006-2008 cycle will not be prorated.  All awards will be
paid at the time all awards are paid for that particular cycle and calculated
based on actual results.  

Finally,
the Board is aware that Tom Wilson, Allstate s Chairman, President, and Chief
Executive Officer approved your use of an Allstate jet to fly to Teterboro, New
Jersey on September 16, 2008 to attend emergency meetings regarding the
crisis in the U.S. financial markets and American International Group, Inc.  The Board agrees that this was a proper
exercise of Tom s authority and that his decision was an excellent one for both
Allstate and the country in light of the financial crisis.  Of course, the expense of the flight will be
imputed to you as income for tax purposes.  

Allstate
will reimburse you for the taxes associated with the cost of your office,
secretary, and office equipment to the extent provided by or reimbursed by
Allstate and for the taxes associated with the imputed income on the flight to
Teterboro, but will not provide any other tax reimbursement.  

The
reimbursement of any expenses described above shall be provided not later than
the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense
was incurred.  In addition, the amount of any expense eligible for
reimbursement, or in-kind benefit provided, during any calendar year shall not
affect the amount of such expense eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind
benefits to be provided, in any other calendar year.  Lastly, the right to
reimbursement or in-kind benefits is not subject to liquidation or exchange for
another benefit.  

To
the extent applicable, it is the Board s intention that the provision of such
perquisites and the reimbursement of such expenses are intended to comply with
the requirements of Internal Revenue Code section 409A (including any
applicable regulations and guidance thereunder).  

If
you have any questions regarding this letter, please contact me.  

Sincerely,  

/s/
  H. John Riley, Jr.  

H.
  John Riley, Jr.  

2  

</EX-10.33>

<EX-12>
 6
 a2189233zex-12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12     

    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION 
COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES RATIO     

(A)    The
Company has authority to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share; however, there are currently no shares outstanding
and the Company does not have a preferred stock dividend obligation. Therefore, the Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends is equal to the Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
and is not disclosed separately.
      (B)    In
this presentation, interest credited to contractholder funds is excluded to promote transparency and allows users of this exhibit to quantify the impact
of interest credited to contractholder funds on the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.
      (C)    Earnings
for the year ended December 31, 2008 were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $3.03 billion.    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 7
 a2189233zex-21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21   

Subsidiaries   

Company Name   

Domicile   

ALFS, Inc.  

Delaware  

ALIC Reinsurance
  Company  

South Carolina  

Allstate Assignment
  Company  

Nebraska  

Allstate Assurance
  Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Bank  

Federal Jurisdiction  

Allstate County Mutual
  Insurance Company  

Texas  

Allstate Distributors,
  LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Enterprises,
  LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Equity
  Management, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Financial
  Advisors, LLC      

Delaware      

Allstate Financial
  Capital Partners, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Financial Corporation  

Illinois  

Allstate Financial
  Services, LLC*  

Delaware  

Allstate Financial, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Fire and
  Casualty Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Floridian
  Indemnity Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Floridian
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Indemnity
  Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Insurance
  Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Institutional
  Advisors, LLC      

Delaware      

Allstate Insurance
  Company of Canada      

Canada      

Allstate Insurance
  Holdings, LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate International
  Insurance Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Allstate Investment
  Management Company      

Delaware      

Allstate Investment
  Management Limited  

United Kingdom  

Allstate Investments,
  LLC  

Delaware  

Allstate Life Insurance
  Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Life Insurance
  Company of Canada  

Canada  

Allstate Life Insurance
  Company of New York  

New York  

Allstate Motor
  Club, Inc.  

Delaware  

Allstate New Jersey
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate New Jersey
  Property and Casualty Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Non-Insurance
  Holdings, Inc.  

Delaware  

Allstate North American
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Northern
  Ireland Limited  

Northern Ireland  

Allstate Property and
  Casualty Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Allstate Reinsurance
  Ltd.  

Bermuda  

Allstate Settlement
  Corporation  

Nebraska  

Allstate Texas Lloyd s  

Texas  

Allstate Texas
  Lloyd s, Inc.  

Texas  

American Heritage Life
  Insurance Company  

Florida  

American Heritage Life
  Investment Corporation  

Delaware  

American Heritage
  Service Company  

Florida  

Charter National Life
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Credit Card
  Sentinel, Inc.  

California  

Deerbrook General
  Agency, Inc.  

Texas  

* Doing
business as LSA Securities in Pennsylvania  

1  

Deerbrook Insurance
  Company  

Illinois  

E.R.J. Insurance Group, Inc.   

Florida  

Encompass Floridian
  Indemnity Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Floridian
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Home and Auto
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Indemnity
  Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Independent
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Insurance
  Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Insurance
  Company of America  

Illinois  

Encompass Insurance
  Company of Massachusetts  

Massachusetts  

Encompass Insurance
  Company of New Jersey  

Illinois  

Encompass Property and
  Casualty Company  

Illinois  

Encompass Property and
  Casualty Insurance Company of New Jersey  

Illinois  

First Colonial
  Insurance Company  

Florida  

Intramerica Life
  Insurance Company  

New York  

Ivantage Select
  Agency, Inc.  

Illinois  

Kennett
  Capital, Inc.      

Delaware      

Kennett Capital
  Holdings, LLC      

Delaware      

Kennett Capital
  Partners, LLC  

Delaware  

Lincoln Benefit Life
  Company  

Nebraska  

Northbrook Indemnity
  Company  

Illinois  

North Light Specialty
  Insurance Company  

Illinois  

Northbrook
  Services, Inc.  

Delaware  

Ocoma Industries, Inc.  

Delaware  

Pafco Insurance Company  

Canada  

Pembridge Insurance
  Company  

Canada  

Roadway Protection
  Motor Club, Inc.  

Delaware  

Signature
  Agency, Inc.  

Delaware  

Signature
  Dental   Vision, Inc.  

California  

Signature Motor
  Club, Inc.  

Delaware  

Signature Motor Club of
  California, Inc.  

California  

Signature s Nationwide
  Auto Club, Inc.  

Delaware  

Signature Nationwide
  Auto Club of California, Inc.  

California  

Sterling Collision
  Centers, Inc.  

Delaware  

Surety Life Insurance
  Company  

Nebraska  

Tech-Cor, LLC  

Delaware  

Doing business as
American Heritage Insurance Services, ERJ Enterprises and ERJ Financial
Services in Florida  

2  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 a2189233zex-23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23     

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

          We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of our reports dated February 25, 2009,
relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedules of The Allstate Corporation and the effectiveness of The Allstate Corporation's internal control over financial reporting (which
report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change in The Allstate Corporation's method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and accounting for
deferred acquisition costs associated with internal replacements in 2007, and defined pension and other postretirement plans in 2006) appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of
The Allstate Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2008, and to the reference to us under the heading "Experts" in Prospectus, which is part of the registration statements.   

    Registration Statements     

/s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP 
 
Chicago, Illinois 
February 25, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 a2189233zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

EXHIBIT 31.1     

  I,
Thomas J. Wilson, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

February 25,
2009   

/s/ THOMAS J. WILSON 

Thomas J. Wilson 
Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive 
Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 a2189233zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2     

  I,
Don Civgin, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and
15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a)    Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b)    Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c)    Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d)    Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a)    All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b)    Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

February 25,
2009   

/s/ DON CIVGIN 

Don Civgin 
Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 a2189233zex-32.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

EXHIBIT 32     

    SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS     

          Each of the undersigned hereby certifies that to his knowledge the report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2008 of The Allstate Corporation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and that the information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of The Allstate Corporation.   

February 25, 2009  
     
   /s/ THOMAS J. WILSON 

Thomas J. Wilson 
Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ DON CIVGIN 

Don Civgin 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32>

