<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110224_10-K_edgar_data_899051_0001047469-11-001286_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>51829883</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>913152</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9668531</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4472990</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>14273703</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>21403609</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>208</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-11-001286.hdr.sgml : 20110224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110224165058
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-11-001286
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALLSTATE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000899051
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				363871531
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11840
		FILM NUMBER:		11637095

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8474025000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2775 SANDERS ROAD
		CITY:			NORTHBROOK
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60062

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 L97i/n1OQaku7qkRwyPIdnIhX25Jk9LOBJ0T5L34Xv0lyJ5eVZ7Mtzk711Ewe22W
 hZQzYB1j0YuPdrQYhVNBNQ==

 0001047469-11-001286.txt : 20110224

10-K
 1
 a2202090z10-k.htm
 10-K

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
Washington, D.C. 20549     

    FORM 10-K     

For the transition period from                           to

Commission file number 1-11840     

   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

Registrant's
telephone number, including area code: (847) 402-5000   

  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class

Name of each exchange 
on which registered

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
     
  New York Stock Exchange 
Chicago Stock Exchange  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   

          Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.   

  Yes     X                                No    

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   

  Yes                                       No  
  X    

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   

  Yes     X                                No    

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).   

  Yes     X                                No    

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.        X       

          Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions
of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer     X      
     
  Accelerated filer             

Non-accelerated filer            (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  
      
   Smaller reporting company             

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   

  Yes                                       No  
  X    

The
aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price as of the last business day of the
registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, June 30, 2010, was approximately $15.36 billion.   

          As
of February 1, 2011, the registrant had 529,770,022 shares of common stock outstanding.   

   Documents Incorporated By Reference     

          Portions of the following documents are incorporated herein by reference as follows:   

Part III
of this Form 10-K incorporates by reference certain information from the registrant's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders meeting to
be held on May 17, 2011 (the "Proxy Statement") to be filed not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.   

TABLE OF CONTENTS     

Page    

PART I   

Item 1.  
     
      Business  
     
  1  

Priorities  
     
  1  

Allstate Protection Segment  
     
  1  

Allstate Financial Segment  
     
  3  

Other Business Segments  
     
  5  

Reserve for Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense  
     
  5  

Regulation  
     
  9  

Internet Website  
     
  12  

Other Information about Allstate  
     
  12  

Executive Officers  
     
  13  

Item 1A.  
     
      Risk Factors  
     
  14  

Item 1B.  
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments  
     
  23  

Item 2.  
     
      Properties  
     
  23  

Item 3.  
     
      Legal Proceedings  
     
  23  

Item 4.  
     
      (Removed and Reserved)  
     
  23  

PART II   

Item 5.  
     
      Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholders Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
     
  24  

Item 6.  
     
      Selected Financial Data  
     
  25  

Item 7.  
     
      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
     
  26  

Item 7A.  
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
     
  122  

Item 8.  
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
     
  122  

Item 9.  
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
     
  208  

Item 9A.  
     
      Controls and Procedures  
     
  208  

Item 9B.  
     
      Other Information  
     
  208  

PART III   

Item 10.  
     
      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
     
  209  

Item 11.  
     
      Executive Compensation  
     
  209  

Item 12.  
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
     
  210  

Item 13.  
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
     
  210  

Item 14.  
     
      Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
     
  210  

PART IV   

Item 15.  
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
     
  211  

Signatures  
     
  214  

Financial Statement Schedules  
     
  S-1  

Part I     

    Item 1.  Business     

         The Allstate Corporation was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on November 5, 1992 to serve as the holding
company for Allstate Insurance Company. Its business is conducted principally through Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company and their affiliates (collectively, including The
Allstate Corporation, "Allstate"). Allstate is primarily engaged in the personal property and casualty insurance business and the life insurance, retirement and investment products business. It
conducts its business primarily in the United States.   

         The
Allstate Corporation is the largest publicly held personal lines insurer in the United States. Widely known through the "You're In Good Hands With Allstate " slogan,
Allstate is reinventing protection and retirement to help individuals in approximately 16 million households protect what they have today and better prepare for tomorrow. Customers can access
Allstate products and services such as auto insurance and homeowners insurance through more than 13,000 exclusive Allstate agencies and financial representatives in the United States and Canada.
Allstate is the 2 nd  largest personal property and casualty insurer in the United States on the basis of 2009 statutory direct premiums earned. In addition, according
to A.M. Best, it is the nation's 16 th  largest
issuer of life insurance business on the basis of 2009 ordinary life insurance in force and 21 st  largest on the basis of 2009 statutory admitted assets.   

Allstate
has four business segments:   

Allstate Protection  
     
                 Discontinued Lines and Coverages  

Allstate Financial  
     
                 Corporate and Other  

To achieve its goals in 2011, Allstate is focused on three priorities:   

improve our operating results;           grow our businesses profitably; and           differentiate ourselves from the competition by reinventing our business.    

In
this annual report on Form 10-K, we occasionally refer to statutory financial information. All domestic United States insurance companies are required to prepare
statutory-basis financial statements. As a result, industry data is available that enables comparisons between insurance companies, including competitors that are not subject to the requirement to
prepare financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). We frequently use industry publications containing statutory
financial information to assess our competitive position.   

    ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT     

    Products and Distribution     

         Our Allstate Protection segment accounted for 92% of Allstate's 2010 consolidated insurance premiums and contract charges. In this
segment, we sell principally private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, primarily through agencies. These products are marketed under the Allstate and Encompass  brand names. The
Allstate Protection segment also includes a separate organization called Emerging Businesses which comprises Business Insurance (commercial products for small business owners), Consumer Household
(specialty products including motorcycle, boat, renters and condominium insurance policies), Allstate Dealer Services (insurance and non-insurance products sold primarily to auto dealers),
Allstate Roadside Services (retail and wholesale roadside assistance products) and Ivantage (insurance agency). We also participate in the involuntary or shared private passenger auto insurance
business in order to maintain our licenses to do business in many states. In some states, Allstate exclusive agencies offer non-proprietary property insurance products.   

         Allstate
brand auto and homeowners insurance products are sold primarily through Allstate exclusive agencies and, to a lesser extent, through independent agencies in areas not served by
exclusive agencies. Encompass brand auto and homeowners insurance products are sold through independent agencies.   

In
most states, consumers can also purchase certain Allstate brand personal insurance products, and obtain service, through our direct channel that includes call centers and the
internet.   

         Total
Allstate Protection premiums written were $25.91 billion in 2010. Our broad-based network of approximately 11,500 Allstate exclusive agencies in approximately 10,850
locations in the U.S. produced approximately 87% of the Allstate Protection segment's written premiums in 2010. The direct channel accounted for 3% of this total. The rest was generated primarily by
approximately 4,500 independent agencies. We are among the seven largest providers of   

  1  

personal
property and casualty insurance products through independent agencies in the United States, based on statutory written premium information provided by A.M. Best for 2009.   

    Competition     

         The markets for personal private passenger auto and homeowners insurance are highly competitive. The following charts provide the
market shares of our principal competitors in the U.S. by direct written premium for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the most recent date such competitive information is available) according
to A.M. Best.   

In the personal property and casualty insurance market, we compete principally on the basis of the recognition of our brands, the scope of our
distribution system, price, the breadth of our product offerings, product features, customer service, claim handling, and use of technology. In addition, our proprietary database of underwriting and
pricing experience enables Allstate to use pricing sophistication to more accurately price risks and to cross sell products within our customer base.   

Pricing
sophistication and related underwriting and marketing programs use a number of risk evaluation factors. For auto insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to
vehicle make, model and year; driver age and marital status; territory; years licensed; loss history; years insured with prior carrier; prior liability limits; prior lapse in coverage; and insurance
scoring based on credit report information. For property insurance, these factors can include but are not limited to amount of insurance purchased; geographic location of the property; loss history;
age and construction characteristics of the property; and insurance scoring based on credit report information.   

         Our
primary focus in using pricing sophistication methods has been on acquiring and retaining new business. The aim has been to enhance Allstate's competitive position with respect to
"target" market segments while maintaining or improving profitability. "Target customers" generally refers to consumers who want to purchase multiple products from one insurance provider including
auto, homeowners and financial products, who have better retention and potentially present more favorable prospects for profitability over the course of their relationships with us. We provide and
continue to enhance a range of discounts to attract more target customers. For example, we implemented an auto discount designed to attract and retain target customers. In many states, we also
increased the discount our homeowners customers receive if they insure their automobiles with Allstate.   

         Allstate
Your Choice Auto  insurance allows qualified customers to choose from a variety of optional auto insurance packages at various prices. We believe that Allstate Your
Choice Auto differentiates Allstate from its competitors and allows for increased growth and increased retention. Allstate Your Choice Home  allows qualified customers to choose from
options such as a claim-free bonus and greater ability to tailor their own home insurance protection coverage. Allstate Blue  is our non-standard auto insurance
product which offers features such as a loyalty bonus and roadside assistance coverage.   

    Geographic Markets     

         The principal geographic markets for our auto, homeowners, and other personal property and casualty products are in the United States.
Through various subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of personal property and casualty insurance products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. We also sell
personal property and casualty insurance products in Canada through a distribution system similar to that used in the United States.   

  2  

The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of premiums earned for the Allstate Protection segment for the year ended December 31, 2010,
based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the premiums earned for the segment.   

We continue to take actions to support earning an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce variability in our
earnings, while providing quality protection to our customers. Accordingly, we expect to continue to adjust underwriting practices with respect to our property business in markets with significant
catastrophe risk exposure.   

    Additional Information     

         Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Protection segment is
contained in Note 18 of the consolidated financial statements. Note 18 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to our
property-liability operations, which includes our Allstate Protection segment and our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by
reference.   

         Information
regarding the amount of premium earned for Allstate Protection segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II, Item 7  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the table regarding premiums earned by brand. That table is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1
by reference.   

    ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT     

    Products and Distribution     

         Our Allstate Financial segment provides life insurance, retirement and investment products, and voluntary accident and health insurance
products. Our principal products are interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; fixed annuities including deferred and immediate; and voluntary accident and health insurance. Our
institutional products, which we offer on an opportunistic basis, consist primarily of funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back medium-term notes issued to
institutional and individual investors. Banking products and services have been offered to customers through the Allstate Bank. The table on page 4 lists our major distribution channels for
this segment, with the associated products and targeted customers.   

         As
the table indicates, we sell Allstate Financial products to individuals through multiple intermediary distribution channels, including Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive
financial specialists, independent agents, and specialized structured settlement brokers. Through March 31, 2010, we also sold products through banks and broker-dealers. Although we continue to
service in force contracts sold through these distribution channels, we no longer solicit new sales through direct relationships with banks or broker-dealers. Certain of our master brokerage
agencies and independent agents may continue to wholesale our products to banks and broker-dealers through their relationships. On February 8, 2011, we announced that we had reached an
agreement to sell substantially all of the deposits of Allstate Bank to Discover Bank and our plans to enter into a multi-year distribution and marketing agreement whereby Discover Bank
will provide banking products and services to Allstate customers in the future. Allstate Financial does not intend to originate banking products or services after the transaction closes, which is
expected to be by mid-year 2011, pending regulatory approval.   

         We
sell products through independent agents affiliated with approximately 150 master brokerage agencies. Independent workplace enrolling agents and Allstate exclusive agencies also sell
our voluntary accident and health insurance products primarily to employees of unaffiliated businesses. On an opportunistic basis, we sell funding agreements to unaffiliated trusts used to back
medium-term notes.   

  3  

Allstate Financial Distribution Channels, Products and Target Customers     

Distribution Channel

Proprietary Products    
     
   Target Customers    

Allstate exclusive agencies    
(Allstate Exclusive Agents and 
Allstate Exclusive Financial Specialists)  
     
  Term life insurance 
Whole life insurance 
Interest-sensitive life insurance 
Variable life insurance 
Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and market value adjusted "MVA") 
Immediate fixed annuities 
Bank products 
    (Certificates of deposit, money market accounts, savings 
    accounts, checking accounts and Allstate Agency loans) 
Workplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance (4)   
     
  Middle market (1) , emerging affluent (2)  and mass affluent 
consumers (3)  with retirement and family financial protection needs  

Independent agents    
(through master brokerage agencies)  
      
   Term life insurance 
Whole life insurance 
Interest-sensitive life insurance 
Variable life insurance 
Deferred fixed annuities (including indexed and MVA) 
Immediate fixed annuities  
      
   Emerging affluent and mass affluent consumers with retirement and family financial protection needs  

Independent agents    
(as workplace enrolling agents)  
      
   Workplace life and voluntary accident and health insurance (4)   
      
   Middle market consumers with family financial protection needs employed by small, medium, and large size firms  

Structured settlement annuity brokers   
      
   Structured settlement annuities  
      
   Typically used to fund or annuitize large claims or litigation settlements  

Broker-dealers    
(Funding agreements)  
      
   Funding agreements backing medium-term notes  
      
   Institutional and individual investors  

(1)     Consumers
with $35,000-$75,000 in household income
       (2)     Consumers
with $75,000-$150,000 in household income
       (3)     Consumers
with greater than $150,000 in household income
       (4)     Interest-sensitive
and term life insurance; disability income insurance; cancer, accident, critical illness and heart/stroke insurance;
hospital indemnity; limited benefit medical insurance; and dental insurance    

Allstate exclusive agencies and exclusive financial specialists also sell the following non-proprietary products in addition to
Allstate Financial products: mutual funds, fixed and variable annuities, disability insurance, and long-term care insurance.   

Competition     

         We compete on a wide variety of factors, including the scope of our distribution systems, the type of our product offerings, the
recognition of our brands, our financial strength and ratings, our differentiated product features and prices, and the level of customer service that we provide. With regard to funding agreements, we
compete principally on the basis of our financial strength and ratings.   

         The
market for life insurance, retirement, and investment products continues to be highly fragmented and competitive. As of December 31, 2010, there were approximately 470 groups
of life insurance companies in the United States, most of which offered one or more similar products. According to A.M. Best, as of December 31, 2009, the Allstate Financial segment is
the nation's 16 th  largest issuer of life insurance and related business on the basis of 2009 ordinary life insurance in force and 21 st  largest on the basis of
2009 statutory admitted assets. In addition, because many of these products include a savings or investment component, our competition includes domestic and foreign securities firms, investment
advisors, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Competitive pressure continues to grow   

  4  

due
to several factors, including cross marketing alliances between unaffiliated businesses, as well as consolidation activity in the financial services industry.   

    Geographic Markets     

         We sell life insurance, retirement and investment products, and voluntary accident and health insurance throughout the United States.
Through subsidiaries, we are authorized to sell various types of these products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. We also sell funding
agreements in the United States.   

         The
following table reflects, in percentages, the principal geographic distribution of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment for the year ended
December 31, 2010, based on information contained in statements filed with state insurance departments. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5 percent of the statutory premiums
and annuity considerations.   

Additional Information     

         Information regarding the last three years' revenues and income from operations attributable to the Allstate Financial segment is
contained in Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 18 also includes information regarding the last three years' identifiable assets attributable to the Allstate
Financial segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

         Information
regarding premiums and contract charges for Allstate Financial segment products for the last three years is set forth in Part II, Item 7  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in the table that summarizes premiums and contract charges by product. That table is incorporated in this
Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

    OTHER BUSINESS SEGMENTS     

         Our Corporate and Other segment is comprised of holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.
Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information regarding the revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our Corporate and Other segment
over the last three years.   

         Our
Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for certain commercial and other businesses in
run-off. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises in this segment. Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contains information
for the last three years regarding revenues, income from operations, and identifiable assets attributable to our property-liability operations, which includes both our Allstate Protection
segment and our Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment. Note 18 is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

RESERVE FOR PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE     

         The following information regarding reserves applies to all of our property-liability operations, encompassing both the Allstate
Protection segment and the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

    Reconciliation of Claims Reserves     

         The following tables are summary reconciliations of the beginning and ending property-liability insurance claims and claims expense
reserves, displayed individually for each of the last three years. The first table presents reserves on a gross (before reinsurance) basis. The end of year gross reserve balances are reflected in the
Consolidated Statements   

  5  

of
Financial Position. The second table presents reserves on a net (after reinsurance) basis. The total net property-liability insurance claims and claims expense amounts are reflected in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

(1)     Reserves
for claims and claims expense are net of reinsurance of $2.07 billion, $2.14 billion and $2.27 billion as of
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.    

The year-end 2010 gross reserves of $19.47 billion for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense, as determined
under GAAP, were $3.33 billion more than the net reserve balance of $16.14 billion recorded on the basis of statutory accounting practices for reports provided to state regulatory
authorities. The principal differences are reinsurance recoverables from third parties totaling $2.07 billion that reduce reserves for statutory reporting but are recorded as assets for GAAP
reporting, and a liability for the reserves of the Canadian subsidiaries for $0.96 billion. Remaining differences are due to variations in requirements between GAAP and statutory reporting.   

As
the tables above illustrate, Allstate's net reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense at the end of 2009 decreased in 2010 by $159 million, compared to
reestimates of the gross reserves of a decrease of $105 million. Net reserve reestimates in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were more favorable than the gross reserve reestimates due to reinsurance
cessions.   

  6  

Loss Reserve Reestimates     

         The following Loss Reserve Reestimates table illustrates the change over time of the net reserves established for property-liability
insurance claims and claims expense at the end of the last eleven calendar years. The first section shows the reserves as originally reported at the end of the stated year. The second section, reading
down, shows the cumulative amounts paid as of the end of successive years with respect to that reserve liability. The third section, reading down, shows retroactive reestimates of the original
recorded reserve as of the end of each successive year which is the result of Allstate's expanded awareness of additional facts and circumstances that pertain to the unsettled claims. The last section
compares the latest reestimated reserve to the reserve originally established, and indicates whether the original reserve was adequate to cover the estimated costs of unsettled claims. The table also
presents the gross reestimated liability as of the end of the latest reestimation period, with separate disclosure of the related reestimated reinsurance recoverable. The Loss Reserve Reestimates
table is cumulative and, therefore, ending balances should not be added since the amount at the end of each calendar year includes activity for both the current and prior years. Unfavorable reserve
reestimates are shown in this table in parentheses.   

7  

As shown in the above table, the subsequent cumulative increase in the net reserves established up to December 31, 2004, in general,
reflect additions to reserves in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages Segment, primarily for asbestos and environmental liabilities, which offset the effects of favorable severity trends experienced
by Allstate Protection, as discussed more fully below. The cumulative increases in reserves established as of December 31, 2006 and 2007 are due to the shift of reserves to older accident years
attributable to a reallocation of reserves related to employee postretirement benefits to more accident years, and a reclassification of injury and 2008 non-injury reserves to older years
which occurred in 2009 as discussed below.   

         The
following table is derived from the Loss Reserve Reestimates table and summarizes the effect of reserve reestimates, net of reinsurance, on calendar year operations for the
ten-year period ended December 31, 2010. The total of each column details the amount of reserve reestimates made in the indicated calendar year and shows the accident years to which
the reestimates are applicable. The amounts in the total accident year column on the far right represent the cumulative reserve reestimates for the indicated accident year(s). Favorable reserve
reestimates are shown in this table in parentheses. Since December 31, 2003, the changes in total have generally been favorable other than 2008 which was adversely impacted due to litigation
filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane Katrina, as shown and discussed more fully below.   

In 2010, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection catastrophe losses and auto severity development that
were less than anticipated in previous estimates, partially offset by litigation settlements. The increased reserves in accident years 2000   prior is due to the litigation settlements of
$100 million, a reclassification of injury reserves to older years and reserve strengthening.   

In
2009, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection catastrophe losses that were less than anticipated in previous estimates. The shift of
reserves to older accident years is attributable to a reallocation of reserves related to employee postretirement benefits to more accident years, and a reclassification of injury and 2008
non-injury reserves to older years.   

         In
2008, unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection catastrophe losses that were more than anticipated in previous estimates.   

         In
2007, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto severity development that was less than what was anticipated in previous estimates.
Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to environmental liabilities reported by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages
segment.   

  8  

In
2006, 2005 and 2004, favorable prior year reserve reestimates were primarily due to Allstate Protection auto injury severity and late reported loss development that was less than what
was anticipated in previous reserve estimates and in 2006, also by catastrophe losses that were less than anticipated in previous estimates. Decreased reserve reestimates for Allstate Protection more
than offset increased reestimates of losses primarily related to asbestos liabilities reported by the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

         In
2003, unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates were due to increases primarily related to asbestos and other discontinued lines, partially offset by favorable Allstate Protection
auto injury severity and late reported loss development that was better than previous estimates.   

         In
2002, unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates were due to claim severity and late reported losses for Allstate Protection that were greater than what was anticipated in previous
reserve estimates and to increased estimates
of losses primarily related to asbestos and environmental liabilities in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment.   

In
2001, unfavorable prior year reserve reestimates were due to greater volume of late reported weather related losses than expected from the end of the year 2000 which were reported in
the year 2001, additional incurred losses on the 1994 Northridge earthquake, adverse results of class action and other litigation, upward reestimates of property losses and upward reestimates of
losses in the Encompass and Canadian businesses.   

         For
additional information regarding reserves, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Property-Liability Claims
and Claims Expense Reserves."   

    REGULATION     

         Allstate is subject to extensive regulation, primarily at the state level. The method, extent, and substance of such regulation varies
by state but generally has its source in statutes that establish standards and requirements for conducting the business of insurance and that delegate regulatory authority to a state regulatory
agency. In general, such regulation is intended for the protection of those who purchase or use insurance products issued by our subsidiaries, not the holders of securities issued by The Allstate
Corporation. These rules have a substantial effect on our business and relate to a wide variety of matters, including insurance company licensing and examination, agent and adjuster licensing, price
setting, trade practices, policy forms, statutory accounting methods, corporate governance, the nature and amount of investments, claims practices, participation in shared markets and guaranty funds,
reserve adequacy, insurer solvency, transactions with affiliates, the payment of dividends, and underwriting standards. Some of these matters are discussed in more detail below. For a discussion of
statutory financial information, see Note 15 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of regulatory contingencies, see Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Notes 13 and 15 are incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference.   

         In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Legislation that would provide for increased federal regulation of insurance,
including the federal chartering of insurance companies, has been proposed. Moreover, as part of an effort to strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted. Hundreds of regulations must be promulgated and implemented pursuant to this new law, and we cannot predict what the final regulations will
require but do not expect a material impact on Allstate's operations. The new law also creates the Federal Office of Insurance ("FIO") within the Treasury Department. The FIO will monitor the
insurance industry, provide advice to the new Financial Stability Oversight Council, represent the U.S. on international insurance matters and study the current regulatory system and submit a report
to Congress in 2012. In addition, state legislators and insurance regulators continue to examine the appropriate nature and scope of state insurance regulation. We cannot predict whether any specific
state or federal measures will be adopted to change the nature or scope of the regulation of insurance or what effect any such measures would have on Allstate. We are working for changes in the
regulatory environment, including recognizing the need for and improving appropriate risk based pricing and promoting the creation of government sponsored, privately funded solutions for
mega-catastrophes. While the actions that we take will be primarily focused on reducing the catastrophe exposure in our property business, we also consider their impact on our ability to
market our auto lines.   

           Agent and Broker Compensation.       In recent years, several states considered new legislation or regulations regarding the compensation of agents
and
brokers by insurance companies. The proposals ranged in nature from new disclosure requirements to new duties on insurance agents and brokers in dealing with customers. New disclosure requirements
have been imposed in certain circumstances upon some agents and brokers in several states.   

           Limitations on Dividends By Insurance Subsidiaries.       As a holding company with no significant business operations of its own, The Allstate
Corporation
relies on dividends from Allstate Insurance Company as one of the principal sources   

  9  

of
cash to pay dividends and to meet its obligations, including the payment of principal and interest on debt. Allstate Insurance Company is regulated as an insurance company in Illinois and its
ability to pay dividends is restricted by Illinois law. For additional information regarding those restrictions, see Part II, Item 5 of this report. The laws of the other jurisdictions
that generally govern our other insurance subsidiaries contain similar limitations on the payment of dividends and in some jurisdictions the laws may be more restrictive.   

           Insurance Holding Company Regulation.       The Allstate Corporation and Allstate Insurance Company are insurance holding companies subject to
regulation
in the jurisdictions in which their insurance subsidiaries do business. In the U.S., these subsidiaries are organized under the insurance codes of Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New York,
and Texas, and some of these subsidiaries are considered commercially domiciled in California, Florida, and Utah. Generally, the insurance codes in these states provide that the acquisition or change
of "control" of a domestic or commercially domiciled insurer or of any person that controls such an insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the relevant insurance regulator. In
general, a presumption of "control" arises from the ownership, control, possession with the power to vote, or possession of proxies with respect to, ten percent or more of the voting securities of an
insurer or of a person that controls an insurer. In addition, certain state insurance laws require pre-acquisition notification to state agencies of a change in control with respect to a
non-domestic insurance company licensed to do business in that state. While such pre-acquisition notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the
change of control, such statutes do authorize certain remedies, including the issuance of a cease and desist order with respect to the non-domestic insurer if certain conditions exist,
such as undue market concentration. Thus, any transaction involving the acquisition of ten percent or more of The Allstate Corporation's common stock would generally require prior approval by the
state insurance departments in California, Illinois, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New York, Texas, and Utah. The prior approval of the Florida insurance department would be necessary for the acquisition
of five percent or more. Moreover, notification would be required in those other states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and where the insurance subsidiaries are
admitted to transact business. Such approval requirements may deter, delay, or prevent certain transactions affecting the ownership of The Allstate Corporation's common stock.   

           Price Regulation.       Nearly all states have insurance laws requiring personal property and casualty insurers to file price schedules, policy or
coverage
forms, and other information with the state's regulatory authority. In many cases, such price schedules, policy forms, or both must be approved prior to use. While they vary from state to
state, the objectives of the pricing laws are generally the same: a price cannot be excessive, inadequate, or unfairly discriminatory.   

The
speed with which an insurer can change prices in response to competition or in response to increasing costs depends, in part, on whether the pricing laws are (i) prior
approval, (ii) file-and-use, or (iii) use-and-file laws. In states having prior approval laws, the regulator must approve a price before
the insurer may use it. In states having file-and-use laws, the insurer does not have to wait for the regulator's approval to use a price, but the price must be filed with the
regulatory authority prior to being used. A use-and-file law requires an insurer to file prices within a certain period of time after the insurer begins using them. Eighteen
states, including California and New York, have prior approval laws. Under all three types of pricing laws, the regulator has the authority to disapprove a price subsequent to its filing.   

An
insurer's ability to adjust its prices in response to competition or to increasing costs is often dependent on an insurer's ability to demonstrate to the regulator that its pricing or
proposed pricing meets the requirements of the pricing laws. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's discretion in selecting the business that it wants to underwrite, an insurer can
manage its risk of loss by charging a price that reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance. In those states that significantly restrict an insurer's ability to charge a price that
reflects the cost and expense of providing the insurance, the insurer can manage its risk of loss by being more selective in the type of business it underwrites. When a state significantly restricts
both underwriting and pricing, it becomes more difficult for an insurer to maintain its profitability.   

Changes
in Allstate's claim settlement process may require Allstate to actuarially adjust loss information used in its pricing process. Some state insurance regulatory authorities may
not approve price increases that give full effect to these adjustments.   

         From
time to time, the private passenger auto insurance industry comes under pressure from state regulators, legislators, and special interest groups to reduce, freeze, or set prices at
levels that do not correspond with our analysis of underlying costs and expenses. Homeowners insurance comes under similar pressure, particularly as regulators in states subject to high levels of
catastrophe losses struggle to identify an acceptable methodology to price for catastrophe exposure. We expect this kind of pressure to persist. In addition, our use of insurance scoring based on
credit report information for underwriting and pricing has been the subject of challenges and investigations by   

  10  

regulators,
legislators, and special interest groups. The result could be legislation or regulation that adversely affects the profitability of the Allstate Protection segment. We cannot predict the
impact on our business of possible future legislative and regulatory measures regarding pricing.   

Involuntary Markets.       As a condition of maintaining our licenses to write personal property and casualty insurance in various states, we are
required
to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities, and joint underwriting associations that provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable
to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to our results of operations.   

           Guaranty Funds.       Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, in
order to
cover certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies.   

           National Flood Insurance Program.       We voluntarily participate as a Write Your Own carrier in the National Flood Insurance Program ("NFIP").
The NFIP
is administered and regulated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. We operate as a fiscal agent of the federal government in the selling and administering of the Standard Flood Insurance
Policy. This involves the collection of premiums belonging to the federal government and the paying of covered claims by directly drawing on funds of the United States Treasury. We receive expense
allowances from the NFIP for underwriting administration, claims management, commissions and adjuster fees.   

Investment Regulation.       Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulations that require investment portfolio diversification and that limit
the
amount of investment in certain categories. Failure to comply with these rules leads to the treatment of non-conforming investments as non-admitted assets for purposes of
measuring statutory surplus. Further, in some instances, these rules require divestiture of non-conforming investments.   

           Exiting Geographic Markets; Canceling and Non-Renewing Policies.       Most states regulate an insurer's ability to exit a market. For example,
states limit, to varying degrees, an insurer's ability to cancel and non-renew policies. Some states prohibit an insurer from withdrawing one or more types of insurance business from the
state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Regulations that limit cancellation and non-renewal and that subject withdrawal plans to prior approval
requirements may restrict an insurer's ability to exit unprofitable markets.   

           Variable Life Insurance and Registered Fixed Annuities.       The sale and administration of variable life insurance and registered fixed annuities
with
market value adjustment features are subject to extensive regulatory oversight at the federal and state level, including regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA").   

           Broker-Dealers, Investment Advisors, and Investment Companies.       The Allstate entities that operate as broker-dealers, registered investment
advisors,
and investment companies are subject to regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission, FINRA and/or, in some cases, state securities administrators.   

           Banking.       The Allstate Corporation is a diversified unitary savings and loan holding company for Allstate Bank, a
federal stock savings bank and a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The principal supervisory authority for the diversified savings and loan holding company activities and
the bank is the Office of Thrift Supervision ("OTS"). We are subject to OTS regulation, examination, supervision, and reporting requirements and its enforcement authority. Among other things, this
permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, and stability of Allstate Bank. The bank is also subject to the
authority of the FDIC and other federal financial regulators implementing various laws applicable to banking. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
("Dodd-Frank Act") provides for the regulation and supervision of federal savings banks like Allstate Bank to be transferred to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"), the
agency that regulates national banks. The OCC will assume primary responsibility for implementing and enforcing many of the laws and regulations applicable to federal savings banks. The transfer will
occur over a transition period of up to one year, subject to a possible six month extension. At the same time, the responsibility for supervising savings and loan holding companies will be transferred
to the Federal Reserve Board, which is the agency that regulates bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides for the creation of a new agency, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau, as an independent bureau of the Federal Reserve Board, to take over the implementation of federal consumer financial protection and fair lending laws from the depository institution
regulators. However, institutions of $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with such laws and regulations by, and subject to the enforcement authority of,
the applicable regulator rather than the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.   

           Privacy Regulation.       Federal law and the laws of many states require financial institutions to protect the security and confidentiality of
customer
information and to notify customers about their policies and practices relating to   

  11  

collection
and disclosure of customer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. Federal law and the laws of many states also regulate
disclosures and disposal of customer information. Congress, state legislatures, and regulatory authorities are expected to consider additional regulation relating to privacy and other aspects of
customer information.   

           Asbestos.       Congress has considered legislation to address asbestos claims and litigation in the past, but unified support among various
defendant and
insurer groups considered essential to any possible reform has been lacking. We cannot predict the impact on our business of possible future legislative measures regarding asbestos.   

           Environmental.       Environmental pollution and clean-up of polluted waste sites is the subject of both federal and state regulation. The
Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("Superfund") and comparable state statutes ("mini-Superfund") govern the clean-up and restoration
of waste sites by Potentially Responsible Parties ("PRPs"). Superfund and the mini-Superfunds (Environmental Clean-up Laws or "ECLs") establish a mechanism to assign liability
to PRPs or to fund the clean-up of waste sites if PRPs fail to do so. The extent of liability to be allocated to a PRP is dependent on a variety of factors. By some estimates, there are
thousands of potential waste sites subject to clean-up, but the exact number is unknown. The extent of clean-up necessary and the process of assigning liability remain in
dispute. The insurance industry is involved in extensive litigation regarding coverage issues arising out of the clean-up of waste sites by insured PRPs and the insured parties' alleged
liability to third parties responsible for the clean-up. The insurance industry, including Allstate, has disputed and is disputing many such
claims. Key coverage issues include whether Superfund response, investigation, and clean-up costs are considered damages under the policies; trigger of coverage; the applicability of
several types of pollution exclusions; proper notice of claims; whether administrative liability triggers the duty to defend; appropriate allocation of liability among triggered insurers; and whether
the liability in question falls within the definition of an "occurrence." Identical coverage issues exist for clean-up and waste sites not covered under Superfund. To date, courts have
been inconsistent in their rulings on these issues. Allstate's exposure to liability with regard to its insureds that have been, or may be, named as PRPs is uncertain. While comprehensive Superfund
reform proposals have been introduced in Congress, only modest reform measures have been enacted.   

    INTERNET WEBSITE     

         Our Internet website address is allstate.com. The Allstate Corporation's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are available through our Internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation and Succession Committee, and Nominating and Governance
Committee are available on our website and in print to any stockholder who requests copies by contacting Investor Relations, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Northbrook, Illinois
60062-6127, 1-800-416-8803.   

    OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT ALLSTATE     

         As of December 31, 2010, Allstate had approximately 35,000 full-time employees and 700 part-time
employees.   

         Information
regarding revenues generated outside of the United States is incorporated in this Part I, Item 1 by reference to Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial
Statements.   

         Allstate's
four business segments use shared services, including human resources, investment, finance, information technology and legal services, provided by Allstate Insurance Company
and other affiliates.   

         Although
the insurance business generally is not seasonal, claims and claims expense for the Allstate Protection segment tend to be higher for periods of severe or inclement weather.   

"Allstate"
is one of the most recognized brand names in the United States. We use the names "Allstate," "Encompass," and "Lincoln Benefit Life" extensively in our business, along with
related service marks, logos, and slogans, such as "Good Hands." Our rights in the United States to these names, service marks, logos, and slogans continue so long as we continue to use them in
commerce. These service marks and many others used by
Allstate are the subject of renewable U.S. and/or foreign service mark registrations. We believe that these service marks are important to our business and we intend to maintain our rights to them
through continued use.   

  12  

Executive Officers     

         The following table sets forth the names of our executive officers, their ages as of February 1, 2011, their positions, and the
years of their first election as officers. "AIC" refers to Allstate Insurance Company.   

Name

Age    
     
    Position/Offices

Year First 
Elected 
Officer

Thomas J. Wilson  

53  
     
  Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Corporation; Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer of AIC.  

1995  

Catherine S. Brune  

57  
     
      Senior Vice President of AIC (Chief Information Officer).  

1999  

Don Civgin  

49  
     
      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Allstate Corporation; Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of AIC.  

2008  

James D. DeVries  

47  
     
      Senior Vice President of AIC (Human Resources).  

2008  

Judith P. Greffin  

50  
     
      Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of AIC.  

2002  

Joseph P. Lacher, Jr.   

41  
     
      President Allstate Protection   Senior Vice President of AIC.  

2009  

Mark R. LaNeve  

51  
     
      Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of AIC.  

2009  

Michele C. Mayes  

61  
     
      Senior Vice President and General Counsel of The Allstate Corporation; Senior Vice President and General Counsel of AIC (Chief
Legal Officer).  

2007  

Samuel H. Pilch  

64  
     
      Controller of The Allstate Corporation; Group Vice President and Controller of AIC.  

1995  

Michael J. Roche  

59  
     
      Senior Vice President of AIC (Claims).  

2003  

Steven P. Sorenson  

46  
     
      Senior Vice President of AIC (Allstate Protection Product Operations).  

2000  

Joan H. Walker  

63  
     
      Senior Vice President of AIC (Corporate Relations).  

2005  

Matthew E. Winter  

54  
     
      President and Chief Executive Officer Allstate Financial   Senior Vice President of AIC.  

2009  

Each of the officers named above may be removed from office at any time, with or without cause, by the board of directors of the relevant company.   

         With
the exception of Messrs. Civgin, DeVries, Lacher, LaNeve, and Winter, and Ms. Mayes, these officers have held the listed positions for at least the last five years or
have served Allstate in various executive or administrative capacities for at least five years.   

Prior
to joining Allstate in 2008, Mr. Civgin was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of OfficeMax, Incorporated and served in that position since 2005.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2008, Mr. DeVries served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Principal Financial Group since 2000.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2009, Mr. Lacher served in various executive officer positions for The Travelers Companies, Inc. since 2002.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2009, Mr. LaNeve served as Vice President of Sales, Service and Marketing of General Motors Corporation since 2004.   

Prior
to joining Allstate in 2009, Mr. Winter served as Vice Chairman of American International Group ("AIG") in 2009, President and Chief Executive Officer of AIG American
General Domestic Life Companies since 2006, and Executive Vice President of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company since 1996.   

         Prior
to joining Allstate in 2007, Ms. Mayes served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes since 2003.   

  13  

Item 1A.  Risk Factors     

         This document contains "forward-looking statements" that anticipate results based on our estimates, assumptions and plans that are
subject to uncertainty. These statements are made subject to the safe-harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. We assume no obligation to update any
forward-looking statements as a result of new information or future events or developments.   

         These
forward-looking statements do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and may be identified by their use of words like "plans," "seeks," "expects," "will," "should,"
"anticipates," "estimates," "intends," "believes," "likely," "targets" and other words with similar meanings. These statements may address, among other things, our strategy for growth, catastrophe
exposure management, product development, investment results, regulatory approvals, market position, expenses, financial results, litigation and reserves. We believe that these statements are based on
reasonable estimates, assumptions and plans. However, if the estimates, assumptions or plans underlying the forward-looking statements prove inaccurate or if other risks or uncertainties arise, actual
results could differ materially from those communicated in these forward-looking statements.   

         In
addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below, which apply to us as an insurer and a provider of other
financial services. These risks constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they
identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and historical trends. These cautionary statements are not
exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this document, in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or in materials incorporated therein by
reference.   

    Risks Relating to the Property-Liability business     

    As a property and casualty insurer, we may face significant losses from catastrophes and severe weather events     

         Because of the exposure of our property and casualty business to catastrophic events, our operating results and financial condition may
vary significantly from one period to the next. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural and man-made disasters, including earthquakes, volcanoes, wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes,
tropical storms and certain types of terrorism. We may incur catastrophe losses in our auto and property business in excess of: (1) those experienced in prior years, (2) those that we
project would be incurred based on hurricane and earthquake losses which have a one percent probability of occurring on an annual aggregate countrywide basis, (3) those that external modeling
firms estimate would be incurred based on other levels of probability, (4) the average expected level used in pricing or (5) our current reinsurance coverage limits. Despite our
catastrophe management programs, we are exposed to catastrophes that could have a material adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. For example, our historical catastrophe
experience includes losses relating to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 totaling $3.6 billion, the Northridge earthquake of 1994 totaling $2.1 billion and Hurricane Andrew in 1992 totaling
$2.3 billion. We are also exposed to assessments from the California Earthquake Authority and various state-created catastrophe insurance facilities, and to losses that could surpass the
capitalization of these facilities. Our liquidity could be constrained by a catastrophe, or multiple catastrophes, which result in extraordinary losses or a downgrade of our debt or financial strength
ratings.   

         In
addition, we are subject to claims arising from weather events such as winter storms, rain, hail and high winds. The incidence and severity of weather conditions are largely
unpredictable. There is generally an increase in the frequency and severity of auto and property claims when severe weather conditions occur.   

    The nature and level of catastrophes in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to our operating results and financial condition     

Along with others in the industry, we use models developed by third party vendors in assessing our property exposure to catastrophe
losses. These models assume various conditions and probability scenarios. Such models do not necessarily accurately predict future losses or accurately measure losses currently incurred. Catastrophe
models, which have been evolving since the early 1990s, use historical information about hurricanes and earthquakes and also utilize detailed information about our in-force business. While
we use this information in connection with our pricing and risk management activities, there are limitations with respect to its usefulness in predicting losses in any reporting period. These
limitations are evident in significant variations in estimates between models and modelers, material increases and decreases in model results due to changes and refinements of the underlying data
elements, assumptions which lead to questionable predictive capability, and actual event conditions that have not been well understood previously   

  14  

and
not incorporated into the models. In addition, the models are not necessarily reflective of actual demand surge, loss adjustment expenses and the occurrence of mold losses, which are subject to
wide variation by event or location.   

    Impacts of catastrophes and our catastrophe management strategy may adversely affect premium growth     

Due to our catastrophe risk management efforts, the size of our homeowners business has been negatively impacted and may continue to be
negatively impacted if we take further actions. Homeowners premium growth rates and retention could be more adversely impacted than we expect by adjustments to our business structure, size and
underwriting practices in markets with significant catastrophe risk exposure. In addition, due to the diminished potential for cross-selling opportunities, new business growth in our auto lines could
be lower than expected.   

    Unanticipated increases in the severity or frequency of claims may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition     

Changes in the severity or frequency of claims may affect the profitability of our Allstate Protection segment. Changes in bodily
injury claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in the medical sector of the economy and litigation. Changes in auto physical damage claim severity are driven primarily by inflation in auto
repair costs, auto parts prices and used car prices. Changes in homeowners claim severity are
driven by inflation in the construction industry, in building materials and in home furnishings, and by other economic and environmental factors, including increased demand for services and supplies
in areas affected by catastrophes. However, changes in the level of the severity of claims are not limited to the effects of inflation and demand surge in these various sectors of the economy.
Increases in claim severity can arise from unexpected events that are inherently difficult to predict. Examples of such events include a decision in 2001 by the Georgia Supreme Court which held that
diminished value coverage was included in auto policies under Georgia law and the emergence of mold-related homeowners losses in the state of Texas during 2002. Although we pursue various
loss management initiatives in the Allstate Protection segment in order to mitigate future increases in claim severity, there can be no assurances that these initiatives will successfully identify or
reduce the effect of future increases in claim severity.   

         Our
Allstate Protection segment may experience volatility in claim frequency from time to time, and short-term trends may not continue over the longer term. A spike in gas
prices and a significant decline in miles driven, both of which occurred in 2008, are examples of factors contributing to a short-term frequency change. A significant increase in claim
frequency could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

    Actual claims incurred may exceed current reserves established for claims and may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition     

         Recorded claim reserves in the Property-Liability business are based on our best estimates of losses, both reported and incurred but
not reported ("IBNR"), after considering known facts and interpretations of circumstances. Internal factors are considered including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical
trends involving claim payment patterns, pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms. External factors are also considered which include, but are not
limited to, law changes, court decisions, changes to regulatory requirements and economic conditions. Because reserves are estimates of the unpaid portion of losses that have occurred, including IBNR
losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded
reserves and such variance may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.   

    Predicting claim expense relating to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines is inherently uncertain and may have a material adverse effect on our operating
results and financial condition     

         The process of estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines liabilities is complicated by complex legal issues
concerning, among other things, the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are covered, or were ever intended to be covered, and whether losses could be
recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Asbestos-related bankruptcies and other asbestos litigation are complex, lengthy proceedings that
involve substantial uncertainty for insurers. Actuarial techniques and databases used in estimating asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines net loss reserves may prove to be inadequate
indicators of the extent of probable loss. Ultimate net losses from these discontinued lines could materially exceed established loss reserves and expected recoveries and have a material adverse
effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

  15  

Regulation limiting rate increases and requiring us to underwrite business and participate in loss sharing arrangements may adversely affect our operating results and
financial condition     

         From time to time, political events and positions affect the insurance market, including efforts to suppress rates to a level that may
not allow us to reach targeted levels of profitability. For example, if Allstate Protection's loss ratio compares favorably to that of the industry, state regulatory authorities may impose rate
rollbacks, require us to pay premium refunds to policyholders, or resist or delay our efforts to raise rates even if the property and casualty industry generally is not experiencing regulatory
resistance to rate increases. Such resistance affects our ability, in all product lines, to obtain approval for rate changes that may be required to achieve targeted levels of profitability and
returns on equity. Our ability to afford reinsurance required to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be dependent upon the ability to adjust rates for its cost.   

         In
addition to regulating rates, certain states have enacted laws that require a property-liability insurer conducting business in that state to participate in assigned risk plans,
reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations or require the insurer to offer coverage to all consumers, often restricting an insurer's ability to charge the price it might otherwise
charge. In these markets, we may be compelled to underwrite significant amounts of business at lower than desired rates, possibly leading to an unacceptable return on equity, or as the facilities
recognize a financial deficit, they may in turn have the ability to assess participating insurers, adversely affecting our results of operations and financial condition. Laws and regulations of many
states also limit an insurer's ability to withdraw from one or more lines of insurance in the state, except pursuant to a plan that is approved by the state insurance department. Additionally, certain
states require insurers to participate in guaranty funds for impaired or insolvent insurance companies. These funds periodically assess losses against all insurance companies doing business in the
state. Our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of these factors.   

The potential benefits of our sophisticated risk segmentation process may not be fully realized     

         We believe that pricing sophistication and underwriting (including Strategic Risk Management which, in some situations, considers
information that is obtained from credit reports among other factors) has allowed us to be more competitive and operate more profitably. However, because many of our competitors have adopted
underwriting criteria and sophisticated pricing models similar to those we use and because other competitors may follow suit, our competitive advantage could decline or be lost. Further, the use of
insurance scoring from information that is obtained from credit reports as a factor in underwriting and pricing has at times been challenged by regulators, legislators, litigants and special interest
groups in various states. Competitive pressures could also force us to modify our pricing sophistication model. Furthermore, we cannot be assured that these pricing sophistication models will
accurately reflect the level of losses that we will ultimately incur.   

    Allstate Protection's operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the property and casualty business     

         The property and casualty market is cyclical and has experienced periods characterized by relatively high levels of price competition,
less restrictive underwriting standards and relatively low premium rates, followed by periods of relatively lower levels of competition, more selective underwriting standards and relatively high
premium rates. A downturn in the profitability cycle of the property and casualty business could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.   

    Risks Relating to the Allstate Financial Segment     

    Changes in underwriting and actual experience could materially affect profitability and financial condition     

         Our product pricing includes long-term assumptions regarding investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency and
operating costs and expenses of the business. We establish target returns for each product based upon these factors and the average amount of capital that we must hold to support in-force
contracts taking into account rating agencies and regulatory requirements. We monitor and manage our pricing and overall sales mix to achieve target new business returns on a portfolio basis, which
could result in the discontinuation or de-emphasis of products or distribution relationships and a decline in sales. Profitability from new business emerges over a period of years
depending on the nature and life of the product and is subject to variability as actual results may differ from pricing assumptions. Additionally, many of our products have fixed or guaranteed terms
that limit our ability to increase revenues or reduce benefits, including credited interest, once the product has been issued.   

         Our
profitability in this segment depends on the adequacy of investment spreads, the management of market and credit risks associated with investments, the sufficiency of premiums and
contract charges to cover mortality and morbidity benefits, the persistency of policies to ensure recovery of acquisition expenses, and the management of   

  16  

operating
costs and expenses within anticipated pricing allowances. Legislation and regulation of the insurance marketplace and products could also affect our profitability and financial condition.   

Changes in reserve estimates may adversely affect our operating results     

         The reserve for life-contingent contract benefits is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions
of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, persistency and expenses. We periodically review the adequacy of these reserves on an aggregate basis and if future experience differs significantly
from assumptions, adjustments to reserves and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC") may be required which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.   

    Changes in market interest rates may lead to a significant decrease in the sales and profitability of spread-based products     

Our ability to manage the Allstate Financial spread-based products, such as fixed annuities and institutional products, is dependent
upon maintaining profitable spreads between investment yields and interest crediting rates. When market interest rates decrease or remain at relatively low levels, proceeds from investments that have
matured or have been prepaid or sold may be reinvested at lower yields, reducing investment spread. Lowering interest crediting rates on some products in such an environment can partially offset
decreases in investment yield. However, these changes could be limited by market conditions, regulatory minimum rates or contractual minimum rate guarantees on many contracts and may not match the
timing or magnitude of changes in investment yields. Decreases in the interest crediting rates offered on products in the Allstate Financial segment could make those products less attractive, leading
to lower sales and/or changes in the level of policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals. Non-parallel shifts in interest rates, such as increases in short-term rates without
accompanying increases in medium- and long-term rates, can influence customer demand for fixed annuities, which could impact the level and profitability of new customer deposits. Increases
in market interest rates can also have negative effects on Allstate Financial, for example by increasing the attractiveness of other investments to our customers, which can lead to higher surrenders
at a time when the segment's fixed income investment asset values are lower as a result of the increase in interest rates. This could lead to the sale of fixed income securities at a loss. For certain
products, principally fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life products, the earned rate on assets could lag behind rising market yields. We may react to market conditions by increasing crediting
rates, which could narrow spreads and reduce profitability. Unanticipated surrenders could result in accelerated amortization of DAC or affect the recoverability of DAC and thereby increase expenses
and reduce profitability.   

    Changes in estimates of profitability on interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment products may adversely affect our profitability and financial
condition through the amortization of DAC     

         DAC related to interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to actual historical
gross profits and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") over the estimated lives of the contracts. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are investment returns, including
capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of persistency, mortality, expenses, and hedges if applicable. Updates
to these assumptions (commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking") could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition.   

    Reducing our concentration in fixed annuities and funding agreements may adversely affect reported results     

         We have been pursuing strategies to reduce our concentration in fixed annuities and funding agreements. Lower new sales of these
products, as well as our ongoing risk mitigation and return optimization programs, could negatively impact investment portfolio levels, complicate settlement of expiring contracts including forced
sales of assets with unrealized capital losses, and affect goodwill impairment testing and insurance reserves deficiency testing.   

    A loss of key product distribution relationships could materially affect sales, results of operations or cash flows     

         Certain products in the Allstate Financial segment are distributed under agreements with other members of the financial services
industry that are not affiliated with us. Termination of one or more of these agreements due to, for example, a change in control of one of these distributors or market conditions that make it
difficult to achieve our target return on certain products, resulting in relatively uncompetitive pricing, or a decision by us to discontinue selling products through a distribution channel, could
have a detrimental effect on the sales, results of operations or cash flows if it were to result in an elevated level of surrenders of in-force contracts sold through terminated
distribution relationships.   

  17  

Changes in tax laws may decrease sales and profitability of products and adversely affect our financial condition     

Under current federal and state income tax law, certain products we offer, primarily life insurance and annuities, receive favorable
tax treatment. This favorable treatment may give certain of our
products a competitive advantage over noninsurance products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment currently
applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance or annuities. Legislation
that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of our products making them less
competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition or ability to sell such products and could result in the surrender of some
existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.   

    Risks Relating to Investments     

    We are subject to market risk and declines in credit quality which may adversely affect investment income, cause additional realized losses, and cause increased unrealized
losses     

         Although we continually reevaluate our risk mitigation and return optimization programs, we remain subject to the risk that we will
incur losses due to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, commodity prices or foreign currency exchange rates. Adverse changes to these rates, spreads and prices may occur
due to changes in the liquidity of a market or market segment, insolvency or financial distress of key market makers or participants, or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness and/or risk
tolerance.   

         We
are subject to risks associated with potential declines in credit quality related to specific issuers or specific industries and a general weakening in the economy, which are
typically reflected through credit spreads. Credit spread is the additional yield on fixed income securities above the risk-free rate (typically defined as the yield on U.S. Treasury
securities) that market participants require to compensate them for assuming credit, liquidity and/or prepayment risks. Credit spreads vary (i.e. increase or decrease) in response to the
market's perception of risk and liquidity in a specific issuer or specific sector and are influenced by the credit ratings, and the reliability of those ratings, published by external rating agencies.
Although we use derivative financial instruments to manage these risks, the effectiveness of such instruments is subject to the same risks.   

         A
decline in market interest rates or credit spreads could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may earn less than the portfolio's
average yield. In a declining interest rate environment, borrowers may prepay or redeem securities more quickly than expected as they seek to refinance at lower rates. A decline could also lead us to
purchase longer-term or riskier assets in order to obtain adequate investment yields resulting in a duration gap when compared to the duration of liabilities. An increase in market
interest rates or credit spreads could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority
of our investment portfolio. A declining equity market could also cause the investments in our pension plans to decrease or decreasing interest rates could cause the funding target and the projected
benefit obligation of our pension plans or the accumulated benefit obligation of our other postretirement benefit plans to increase, either or both resulting in a decrease in the funded status of the
pension plans and a reduction of shareholders' equity, increases in pension and other postretirement benefit expense and increases in required contributions to the
pension plans. A decline in the quality of our investment portfolio as a result of adverse economic conditions or otherwise could cause additional realized losses on securities, including realized
losses relating to equity and derivative strategies.   

    Deteriorating financial performance impacting securities collateralized by residential and commercial mortgage loans, collateralized corporate loans, and commercial mortgage
loans may lead to write-downs and impact our results of operations and financial condition     

         Changes in residential or commercial mortgage delinquencies, loss severities or recovery rates, declining residential or commercial
real estate prices, corporate loan delinquencies or recovery rates, changes in credit or bond insurer strength ratings and the quality of service provided by service providers on securities in our
portfolios could lead us to determine that write-downs are necessary in the future.   

    The impact of our investment strategies may be adversely affected by developments in the financial markets     

         The impact of our investment portfolio risk mitigation and return optimization programs may be adversely affected by unexpected
developments in the financial markets. For example, derivative contracts may result in coverage that is   

  18  

not
as effective as intended thereby leading to the recognition of losses without the recognition of gains expected to mitigate the losses.   

    Concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular segment of the economy may have adverse effects on our operating results and financial condition     

         The concentration of our investment portfolios in any particular industry, collateral type, group of related industries or geographic
sector could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations and financial condition. Events or developments that have a negative impact on any
particular industry, group of related industries or geographic region may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated rather than
diversified.   

    The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments of our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results
and financial condition     

         The determination of the amount of realized capital losses recorded for impairments vary by investment type and is based upon our
periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes
available. We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in other-than-temporary impairments in our results of operations. The assessment of whether
other-than-temporary impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in fair value. There
can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of or amounts recorded for other-than-temporary impairments taken in our financial statements. Furthermore,
historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments and additional impairments may need to be recorded in the future.   

    The determination of the fair value of our fixed income and equity securities is highly subjective and could materially impact our operating results and financial condition     

         In determining fair values we generally utilize market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. The degree of management
judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the availability of market observable information. The fair value of assets may differ from the actual amount received upon sale of
an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of different valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the assets' fair values. The
difference between amortized cost or cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, certain life and annuity DAC, certain deferred sales inducement costs ("DSI"), and certain reserves for
life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity. Changing market conditions could materially affect the
determination of the fair value of securities and unrealized net capital gains and losses could vary significantly. Determining fair value is highly subjective and could materially impact our
operating results and financial condition.   

    Risks Relating to the Insurance Industry     

    Our future results are dependent in part on our ability to successfully operate in an insurance industry that is highly competitive     

         The insurance industry is highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurers and, because some of our products include a
savings or investment component, securities firms, investment advisers, mutual funds, banks and other financial institutions. Many of our competitors have well-established national
reputations and market similar products. Because of the competitive
nature of the insurance industry, including competition for producers such as exclusive and independent agents, there can be no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete with our industry
rivals, or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Furthermore, certain competitors operate using a mutual
insurance company structure and therefore may have dissimilar profitability and return targets. Our ability to successfully operate may also be impaired if we are not effective in filling critical
leadership positions, in developing the talent and skills of our human resources, in assimilating new executive talent into our organization, or in deploying human resource talent consistently with
our business goals.   

Difficult conditions in the economy generally could adversely affect our business and operating results     

         As with most businesses, we believe difficult conditions in the economy, such as significant negative macroeconomic trends, including
relatively high and sustained unemployment, reduced consumer spending, lower home prices, substantial increases in delinquencies on consumer debt, including defaults on home mortgages, and the
relatively low availability of credit could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.   

  19  

General
economic conditions could adversely affect us in the form of consumer behavior and pressure investment results. Consumer behavior changes could include decreased demand for our
products. For example, as consumers purchase fewer automobiles, our sales of auto insurance may decline. Also, as consumers become more cost conscious, they may choose lower levels of auto and
homeowners insurance. In addition, holders of some of our interest-sensitive life insurance and annuity products may engage in an elevated level of discretionary withdrawals of contractholder funds.
Our investment results could be adversely affected as deteriorating financial and business conditions affect the issuers of the securities in our investment portfolio.   

There can be no assurance that actions of the U.S. federal government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the
financial markets and stimulating the economy will achieve the intended effect     

         In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system, the financial markets and the broader economy in recent years, the
U.S. federal government, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken actions such as purchasing mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions,
investing directly in banks, thrifts and bank and savings and loan holding companies and increasing federal spending to stimulate the economy. There can be no assurance as to the long term impact such
actions will have on the financial markets or on economic conditions, including potential inflationary affects. Continued volatility and any further economic deterioration could materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.   

    Losses from litigation may be material to our operating results or cash flows and financial condition     

         As is typical for a large company, we are involved in various legal actions, including class action litigation challenging a range of
company practices and coverage provided by our insurance products. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters, the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently
reserved and may be material to our operating results or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period and to our financial condition.   

    We are subject to extensive regulation and potential further restrictive regulation may increase our operating costs and limit our growth     

         As insurance companies, broker-dealers, investment advisers, a federal stock savings bank and/or investment companies, many of our
subsidiaries are subject to extensive laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Moreover, they are administered and enforced by a number of different
governmental authorities, including state insurance regulators, state securities administrators, the SEC, the FINRA, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the U.S. Department of Justice, and state
attorneys general, each of which exercises a degree of interpretive latitude. Consequently, we are subject to the risk that compliance with any particular regulator's or enforcement authority's
interpretation of a legal issue may not result in compliance with another's interpretation of the same issue, particularly when compliance is judged in hindsight. In addition, there is risk that any
particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue may change over time to our detriment, or that changes in the overall legal environment may, even absent any
particular regulator's or enforcement authority's interpretation of a legal issue changing, cause us to change our views regarding the actions we need to take from a legal risk management perspective,
thus necessitating changes to our practices that may, in some cases, limit our ability to grow and improve the profitability of our business. Furthermore, in some cases, these laws and regulations are
designed to protect or benefit the interests of a specific constituency rather than a range of constituencies. For example, state insurance laws and regulations are generally intended to protect or
benefit purchasers or users of insurance products, not holders of securities issued by The Allstate Corporation. In many respects, these laws and regulations limit our ability to grow and improve the
profitability of our business.   

         In
recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework has come under public scrutiny and members of Congress have discussed proposals to provide for federal chartering of insurance
companies. We can make no assurances regarding the potential impact of state or federal measures that may change the nature or scope of insurance regulation.   

    Regulatory reforms, and the more stringent application of existing regulations, may make it more expensive for us to conduct our business     

         The federal government has enacted comprehensive regulatory reforms for financial services entities. As part of a larger effort to
strengthen the regulation of the financial services market, certain reforms are applicable to the insurance industry, including the establishment of a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of
Treasury.   

  20  

We
are a diversified unitary savings and loan holding company for Allstate Bank, a federal stock savings bank and a member of the FDIC. The principal supervisory authority for the
diversified unitary savings and loan holding company activities and the bank is the OTS. We are subject to OTS regulation, examination, supervision and reporting requirements and its enforcement
authority. Among other things, this permits the OTS to restrict or prohibit activities that are determined to be a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness and stability of Allstate Bank. The
reforms will abolish the OTS and transfer those responsibilities to the OCC and the Federal Reserve Board within an established time period.   

         These
regulatory reforms and any additional legislation or regulatory requirements imposed upon us in connection with the federal government's regulatory reform of the financial services
industry or arising from reform related to the international regulatory capital framework for banking firms, and any more stringent enforcement of existing regulations by federal authorities, may make
it more expensive for us to conduct our business.   

    Reinsurance may be unavailable at current levels and prices, which may limit our ability to write new business     

Our personal lines catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to
catastrophes nationwide. Market conditions beyond our control impact the availability and cost of the reinsurance we purchase. No assurances can be made that reinsurance will remain continuously
available to us to the same extent and on the same terms and rates as is currently available. For example, our ability to afford reinsurance to reduce our catastrophe risk in designated areas may be
dependent upon our ability to adjust premium rates for its cost, and there are no assurances that the terms and rates for our current reinsurance program will continue to be available next year. If we
were unable to maintain our current level of reinsurance or purchase new reinsurance protection in amounts that we consider sufficient and at prices that we consider acceptable, we would have to
either accept an increase in our exposure risk, reduce our insurance writings, or develop or seek other alternatives.   

    Reinsurance subjects us to the credit risk of our reinsurers and may not be adequate to protect us against losses arising from ceded insurance, which could have a material
adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition     

         The collectability of reinsurance recoverables is subject to uncertainty arising from a number of factors, including changes in market
conditions, whether insured losses meet the qualifying conditions of the reinsurance contract and whether reinsurers, or their affiliates, have the financial capacity and willingness to make payments
under the terms of a reinsurance treaty or contract. Our inability to collect a material recovery from a reinsurer could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial
condition.   

    A large scale pandemic, the continued threat of terrorism or ongoing military actions may have an adverse effect on the level of claim losses we incur, the value of our
investment portfolio, our competitive position, marketability of product offerings, liquidity and operating results     

         A large scale pandemic, the continued threat of terrorism, within the United States and abroad, or ongoing military and other actions,
and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and losses in our investment portfolio from declines in the equity markets and from interest
rate changes in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, and result in loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. Some of the assets in our investment
portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by a large scale pandemic or the continued threat of terrorism. Additionally, in the Allstate
Protection and Allstate Financial business segments, a large scale pandemic or terrorist act could have a material adverse effect on the sales, profitability, competitiveness, marketability of product
offerings, liquidity, and operating results.   

    A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may have an adverse effect on our competitive position, the marketability of our product offerings, and our liquidity,
operating results and financial condition     

         Financial strength ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and generally have an
effect on an insurance company's business. On an ongoing basis, rating agencies review the financial performance and condition of insurers and could downgrade or change the outlook on an insurer's
ratings due to, for example, a change in an insurer's statutory capital; a change in a rating agency's determination of the amount of risk-adjusted capital required to maintain a
particular rating; an increase in the perceived risk of an insurer's investment portfolio; a reduced confidence in management or a host of other considerations that may or may not be under the
insurer's control. The insurance financial strength ratings of Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company and The Allstate Corporation's senior debt ratings from A.M. Best,
Standard   Poor's and Moody's are subject   

  21  

to
continuous review, and the retention of current ratings cannot be assured. A downgrade in any of these ratings could have a material adverse effect on our sales, our competitiveness, the
marketability of our product offerings, and our liquidity, operating results and financial condition.   

    Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms     

         In periods of extreme volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, liquidity and credit capacity may be severely
restricted. In such circumstances, our ability to obtain capital to fund operating expenses, financing costs, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited, and the cost of any such capital may
be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our
industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as lenders' perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired
if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative
actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain
additional financing on favorable terms.   

    Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition     

         Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, which are periodically revised,
interpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, we are required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as we enter into new transactions, which may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. For a description of changes in accounting standards that
are currently pending and, if known, our estimates of their expected impact, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

The change in our unrecognized tax benefit during the next 12 months is subject to uncertainty     

         We have disclosed our estimate of net unrecognized tax benefits and the reasonably possible increase or decrease in its balance during
the next 12 months in Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements. However, actual results may differ from our estimate for reasons such as changes in our position on specific
issues, developments with respect to the governments' interpretations of income tax laws or changes in judgment resulting from new information obtained in audits or the appeals process.   

The realization of deferred tax assets is subject to uncertainty     

         The realization of our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, is based on our assumption that we will be able to fully
utilize the deductions that are ultimately recognized for tax purposes. However, actual results may differ from our assumptions if adequate levels of taxable income are not attained.   

    The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends may affect our liquidity and ability to meet our obligations     

         The Allstate Corporation is a holding company with no significant operations. The principal asset is the stock of its subsidiaries.
State insurance regulatory authorities limit the payment of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, as described in Note 15 of the consolidated financial statements. In addition, competitive
pressures generally require the subsidiaries to maintain insurance financial strength ratings. These restrictions and other regulatory requirements affect the ability of the subsidiaries to make
dividend payments. Limits on the ability
of the subsidiaries to pay dividends could adversely affect holding company liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders, service our debt, or complete share repurchase programs
in the timeframe expected.   

    The occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning or a support failure from external providers during a disaster
could impair our ability to conduct business effectively     

         The occurrence of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in
our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition,
particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems. In the event that a significant number of our managers could be unavailable in the
event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised.   

  22  

Changing climate conditions may adversely affect our financial condition, profitability or cash flows     

         Allstate recognizes the scientific view that the world is getting warmer. Climate change, to the extent it produces rising temperatures
and changes in weather patterns, could impact the frequency or severity of weather events and wildfires, the affordability and availability of homeowners insurance, and the results for our Allstate
Protection segment.   

    Loss of key vendor relationships or failure of a vendor to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees could affect our operations     

         We rely on services and products provided by many vendors in the United States and abroad. These include, for example, vendors of
computer hardware and software and vendors of services such as claim adjustment services and human resource benefits management services. In the event that one or more of our vendors suffers a
bankruptcy or otherwise becomes unable to continue to provide products or services, or fails to protect personal information of our customers, claimants or employees, we may suffer operational
impairments and financial losses.    

    Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments     

         None.    

    Item 2.  Properties     

         Our home office complex is located in Northbrook, Illinois. As of December 31, 2010, the Home Office complex consists of several
buildings totaling 2.3 million square feet of office space on a 278-acre site.   

We
also operate from approximately 1,400 administrative, data processing, claims handling and other support facilities in North America. In addition to our home office facilities,
2.3 million square feet are owned and 6.1 million square feet are leased. Outside North America, we lease three properties in Northern Ireland comprising 130,550 square feet. We also
have one lease in London for 3,650 square feet. Generally, only major Allstate facilities are owned. In a majority of cases, new lease terms and renewals are for five years or less.   

         The
locations out of which the Allstate exclusive agencies operate in the U.S. are normally leased by the agencies as lessees.    

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings     

         Information required for Item 3 is incorporated by reference to the discussion under the heading "Regulation and Compliance" and
under the heading "Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries" in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.    

    Item 4.  (Removed and Reserved)     

  23  

Part II     

    Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

         As of February 1, 2011, there were 108,052 record holders of The Allstate Corporation's common stock. The principal market for
the common stock is the New York Stock Exchange but it is also listed on the Chicago Stock Exchange. Set forth below are the high and low New York Stock Exchange Composite listing prices of, and cash
dividends declared for, the common stock during 2010 and 2009.   

The payment of dividends by Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC") to The Allstate Corporation is limited by Illinois insurance law to formula amounts
based on statutory net income and statutory surplus, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. In the twelve-month period ending December 31, 2010, AIC
paid dividends of $1.30 billion. Based on the greater of 2010 statutory net income or 10% of statutory surplus, the maximum amount of dividends that AIC will be able to pay without prior
Illinois Department of Insurance approval at a given point in time in 2011 is $1.54 billion, less dividends paid during the preceding twelve months measured at that point in time. Notification
and approval of intercompany lending activities is also required by the Illinois Department of Insurance for those transactions that exceed formula amounts based on statutory admitted assets and
statutory surplus.   

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     

(1)     In
accordance with the terms of its equity compensation plans, Allstate acquired the following shares in connection with stock option
exercises by employees and/or directors. The stock was received in payment of the exercise price of the options and in satisfaction of withholding taxes due upon exercise or vesting.   

October:        1,069 
    November:    none 
    December:    none   

    (2)     Repurchases
under our programs are, from time to time, executed under the terms of a pre-set trading plan meeting the requirements
of Rule 10b5-1(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

None

(3)     On
November 9, 2010, we announced the approval of a new share repurchase program for $1.00 billion. This program is expected to
be completed by March 31, 2012.    

24  

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data     

    5-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

(1)     We
use operating ratios to measure the profitability of our Property-Liability results. We believe that they enhance an investor's
understanding of our profitability. They are calculated as follows: Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio is the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned. Loss ratios include the
impact of catastrophe losses. Expense ratio is the ratio of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned.
Combined ratio is the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. The
combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income as a percentage of premiums earned, or underwriting
margin.    

25  

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

26  

OVERVIEW     

         The following discussion highlights significant factors influencing the consolidated financial position and results of operations of
The Allstate Corporation (referred to in this document as "we", "our", "us", the "Company" or "Allstate"). It should be read in conjunction with the 5-year summary of selected financial
data, consolidated financial statements and related notes found under Part II, Item 6 and Item 8 contained herein. Further analysis of our insurance segments is provided in the
Property-Liability Operations (which includes the Allstate Protection and the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments) and in the Allstate Financial Segment sections of Management's Discussion and
Analysis ("MD A"). The segments are consistent with the way in which we use financial information to evaluate business performance and to determine the allocation of resources.   

         Allstate
is focused on three priorities in 2011:   

improve our operating results;           grow our businesses profitably; and           differentiate ourselves from the competition by reinventing our business.    

The
most important factors we monitor to evaluate the financial condition and performance of our company include:   

For Allstate Protection: premium written, the number of policies in force ("PIF"), retention, price changes, claim
frequency (rate of claim occurrence per policy in force) and severity (average cost per claim), catastrophes, loss ratio, expenses, underwriting results, and sales of all products and services;          For Allstate Financial: benefit and investment spread, amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC"),
expenses, operating income, net income, invested assets, and premiums and contract charges;           For Investments: credit quality/experience, realized capital gains and losses, investment
income, unrealized capital gains
and losses, stability of long-term returns, total returns, cash flows, and asset and liability duration; and           For financial condition: liquidity, parent holding company level of
deployable invested assets, financial strength
ratings, operating leverage, debt leverage, book value per share, and return on equity.    

2010 HIGHLIGHTS     

Consolidated net income was $928 million in 2010 compared to $854 million in 2009. Net income per diluted
share was $1.71 in 2010 compared to $1.58 in 2009.           Property-Liability net income was $1.05 billion in 2010 compared to $1.54 billion in 2009.          The Property-Liability combined ratio was 98.1 in 2010 compared to 96.2 in 2009.           Allstate Financial had net income of $58 million in 2010
compared to a net loss of $483 million in 2009.
          Total revenues were $31.40 billion in 2010 compared to $32.01 billion in 2009.           Property-Liability premiums
 earned in 2010 totaled $25.96 billion, a decrease of 0.9% from $26.19 billion in
2009.           Net realized capital losses were $827 million in 2010 compared to $583 million in 2009.          Investments as of
December 31, 2010 totaled $100.48 billion, an increase of 0.7% from $99.83 billion
as of December 31, 2009. Net investment income in 2010 was $4.10 billion, a decrease of 7.7% from $4.44 billion in 2009.           Book value per diluted share (ratio of
shareholders' equity to total shares outstanding and dilutive potential shares
outstanding) was $35.32 as of December 31, 2010, an increase of 14.5% from $30.84 as of December 31, 2009.           For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, return on the
average of beginning and ending period shareholders'
equity was 5.2%, a decrease of 0.6 points from 5.8% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.           As of December 31, 2010, we had $19.02 billion in capital. This total
included $3.84 billion in
deployable invested assets at the parent holding company level.    
  27  

CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME (LOSS)     

APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES     

         The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
("GAAP") requires management to adopt accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. The most critical estimates include
those used in determining:   

Fair value of financial assets           Impairment of fixed income and equity securities           Deferred policy acquisition costs amortization           Reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense estimation
         Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits estimation    

In
making these determinations, management makes subjective and complex judgments that frequently require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Many of these policies,
estimates and related judgments are common in the insurance and financial services industries; others are specific to our businesses and operations. It is reasonably likely that changes in these
estimates could occur from period to period and result in a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.   

         A
brief summary of each of these critical accounting estimates follows. For a more detailed discussion of the effect of these estimates on our consolidated financial statements, and the
judgments and assumptions related to these   

  28  

estimates,
see the referenced sections of this document. For a complete summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

           Fair value of financial assets       Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We categorize our financial assets measured at fair value into a three-level hierarchy based on the observability of inputs to
the valuation techniques as follows:   

Level 1:   
     
  Financial asset values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in an active market that we can access.  

Level 2:   
      
   Financial asset values are based on the following:  

(a)  
     
  Quoted prices for similar assets in active markets;  

(b)  
     
  Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active; or  

(c)  
     
  Valuation models whose inputs are observable, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset.  

Level 3:   
      
   Financial asset values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. Unobservable inputs reflect our estimates of the
assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the financial assets.  

Observable inputs are inputs that reflect the assumptions market participants would use in valuing financial assets that are developed based on
market data obtained from independent sources. In the absence of sufficient observable inputs, unobservable inputs reflect our estimates of the assumptions market participants would use in valuing
financial assets and are developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The degree of management judgment involved in determining fair values is inversely related to the
availability of market observable information.   

         We
are responsible for the determination of fair value of financial assets and the supporting assumptions and methodologies. We gain assurance on the overall reasonableness and
consistent application of valuation input assumptions, valuation methodologies and compliance with accounting standards for fair value determination through the execution of various processes and
controls designed to ensure that our financial assets are appropriately valued. We monitor fair values received from third parties and those derived internally on an ongoing basis.   

         We
employ independent third-party valuation service providers, broker quotes and internal pricing methods to determine fair values. We obtain or calculate only one single quote or price
for each financial instrument.   

         Valuation
service providers typically obtain data about market transactions and other key valuation model inputs from multiple sources and, through the use of proprietary models, produce
valuation information in the form of a single fair value for individual securities for which a fair value has been requested under the terms of our agreements. For certain equity securities, valuation
service providers provide market quotations for completed transactions on the measurement date. For other security types, fair values are derived from the valuation service providers' proprietary
valuation models. The inputs used by the valuation service providers include, but are not limited to, market prices from recently completed transactions and transactions of comparable securities,
interest rate yield curves, credit spreads, liquidity spreads, currency rates, and other information, as applicable. Credit and liquidity spreads are typically implied from completed transactions and
transactions of comparable securities. Valuation service providers also use proprietary discounted cash flow models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry and similar to those
used by other market participants to value the same financial instruments. The valuation models take into account, among other things, market observable information as of the measurement date, as
described above, as well as the specific attributes of the security being valued including its term, interest rate, credit rating, industry sector, and where applicable, collateral quality and other
issue or issuer
specific information. Executing valuation models effectively requires seasoned professional judgment and experience. In cases where market transactions or other market observable data is limited, the
extent to which judgment is applied varies inversely with the availability of market observable information.   

         For
certain of our financial assets measured at fair value, where our valuation service providers cannot provide fair value determinations, we obtain a single non-binding
price quote from a broker familiar with the security who, similar to our valuation service providers, may consider transactions or activity in similar securities among other information. The brokers
providing price quotes are generally from the brokerage divisions of leading financial institutions with market making, underwriting and distribution expertise regarding the security subject to
valuation.   

         The
fair value of certain financial assets, including privately placed corporate fixed income securities, auction rate securities ("ARS") backed by student loans, equity-indexed notes,
and certain free-standing derivatives, for which our valuation service providers or brokers do not provide fair value determinations, is determined using valuation methods   

  29  

and
models widely accepted in the financial services industry. Internally developed valuation models, which include inputs that may not be market observable and as such involve some degree of
judgment, are considered appropriate for each class of security to which they are applied.   

         Our
internal pricing methods are primarily based on models using discounted cash flow methodologies that develop a single best estimate of fair value. Our models generally incorporate
inputs that we believe are representative of inputs other market participants would use to determine fair value of the same instruments, including yield curves, quoted market prices of comparable
securities, published credit spreads, and other applicable market data. Additional inputs that are used include internally-derived assumptions such as liquidity premium and credit ratings, as well as
instrument-specific characteristics that include, but are not limited to, coupon rate, expected cash flows, sector of the issuer, and call provisions. Our internally assigned credit ratings are
developed at a more detailed level than externally published ratings and allow for a more precise match of these ratings to other market observable valuation inputs, such as credit and sector spreads,
when performing these valuations. Due to the existence of non-market observable inputs, such as liquidity premiums, judgment is required in developing these fair values. As a result, the
fair value of these financial assets may differ from the amount actually received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Moreover, the use of
different valuation assumptions may have a material effect on the financial assets' fair values.   

For
the majority of our financial assets measured at fair value, all significant inputs are based on market observable data and significant management judgment does not affect the
periodic determination of fair value. The determination of fair value using discounted cash flow models involves management judgment when significant model inputs are not based on market observable
data. However, where market observable data is available, it takes precedence, and as a result, no range of reasonably likely inputs exists from which the basis of a sensitivity analysis could be
constructed.   

         There
is one primary situation where a discounted cash flow model utilizes a significant input that is not market observable, and it relates to the determination of fair value for our
ARS backed by student loans. The significant input utilized is the anticipated date liquidity will return to this market (that is, when auction failures will cease).
Determination of this assumption allows for matching to market observable inputs when performing these valuations.   

         The
following table displays the sensitivity of reasonably likely changes in the anticipated date liquidity will return to the student loan ARS market as of December 31, 2010. The
selection of these hypothetical scenarios represents an illustration of the estimated potential proportional effect of alternate assumptions and should not be construed as either a prediction of
future events or an indication that it would be reasonably likely that all securities would be similarly affected.   

($ in millions)    

ARS backed by student loans at fair value  
     
  $  
  1,230  

Percentage change in fair value resulting from:  

Decrease in the anticipated date liquidity will return to this market by six months  

1.1  
  %  

Increase in the anticipated date liquidity will return to this market by six months  

(1.1  
  )%  

We believe our most significant exposure to changes in fair value is due to market risk. Our exposure to changes in market conditions is discussed
fully in the Market Risk section of the MD A.   

         We
employ specific control processes to determine the reasonableness of the fair value of our financial assets. Our processes are designed to ensure that the values received or
internally estimated are accurately recorded and that the data inputs and the valuation techniques utilized are appropriate, consistently applied, and that the assumptions are reasonable and
consistent with the objective of determining fair value. For example, on a continuing basis, we assess the reasonableness of individual security values received from valuation service providers and
those derived from internal models that exceed certain thresholds as compared to previous values received from those valuation service providers or derived from internal models. In addition, we may
validate the reasonableness of fair value by comparing information obtained from our valuation service providers to other third party valuation sources for selected securities. We perform ongoing
price validation procedures such as back-testing of actual sales, which corroborate the various inputs used in internal pricing models to market observable data. When fair value
determinations are expected to be more variable, we validate them through reviews by members of management who have relevant expertise and who are independent of those charged with executing
investment transactions.   

  30  

We
also perform an analysis to determine whether there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset when compared to normal market activity, and if
so, whether transactions may not be orderly. Among the indicators we consider in determining whether a significant decrease in the volume and level of market activity for a specific asset has occurred
include the level of new issuances in the primary market, trading volume in the secondary market, level of credit spreads over historical levels, bid-ask spread, and price consensuses
among market participants and sources. If evidence indicates that prices are based on transactions that are not orderly, we place little, if any, weight on the transaction price and will estimate fair
value using an internal pricing model. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we did not alter fair values provided by our valuation service providers or brokers or substitute them with an internal
pricing model.   

         The
following table identifies fixed income and equity securities and short-term investments as of December 31, 2010 by source of fair value determination:   

(1)     Includes
$4.20 billion that are valued using broker quotes.    

For more detailed information on our accounting policy for the fair value of financial assets and the financial assets by level in the fair value
hierarchy, see Notes 2 and 5 of the consolidated financial statements.   

           Impairment of fixed income and equity securities       For investments classified as available for sale, the difference between fair value and
amortized
cost for fixed income securities and cost for equity securities, net of certain other items and deferred income taxes (as disclosed in Note 4), is reported as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and is not reflected in the operating results of any period until reclassified to net income upon the consummation of a
transaction with an unrelated third party or when a write-down is recorded due to an other-than-temporary decline in fair value. We have a comprehensive portfolio
monitoring process to identify and evaluate each fixed income and equity security whose carrying value may be other-than-temporarily impaired.   

         For
each fixed income security in an unrealized loss position, we assess whether management with the appropriate authority has made the decision to sell or whether it is more likely than
not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost basis for reasons such as liquidity, contractual or regulatory purposes. If a security meets either of these
criteria, the security's decline in fair value is considered other than temporary and is recorded in earnings.   

If
we have not made the decision to sell the fixed income security and it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell the fixed income security before recovery of its
amortized cost basis, we evaluate whether we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. We use our best estimate of future cash flows expected
to be collected from the fixed income security discounted at the security's original or current effective rate, as appropriate, to calculate a recovery value and determine whether a credit loss
exists. The determination of cash flow estimates is inherently subjective and methodologies may vary depending on facts and circumstances specific to the security. All reasonably available information
relevant to the collectability of the security, including past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable assumptions and forecasts, are considered when developing the estimate of cash
flows expected to be collected. That information generally includes, but is not limited to, the remaining payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, foreign exchange rates, the financial
condition and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer, expected defaults, expected recoveries, the value of underlying collateral, vintage, geographic concentration, available reserves or
escrows, current subordination levels, third party guarantees and other credit enhancements. Other information, such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, financial
condition of the bond insurer for insured fixed income securities, and other market data relevant to the realizability of contractual cash flows, may also be considered. The estimated fair value of
collateral will be used to estimate recovery value if we determine that the security is dependent on the liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement. If the estimated recovery value is less than
the amortized cost of the security, a credit loss exists and an other-than-temporary impairment for the difference between the estimated recovery value and amortized cost is
recorded in earnings. The portion of the unrealized loss related to factors other than credit remains classified in accumulated other comprehensive income. If we determine that the fixed income
security does not have sufficient cash   

  31  

flow
or other information to estimate a recovery value for the security, we may conclude that the entire decline in fair value is deemed to be credit related and the loss is recorded in earnings.   

         There
are a number of assumptions and estimates inherent in evaluating impairments of equity securities and determining if they are other than temporary, including: 1) our ability
and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for an anticipated recovery in value; 2) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than
cost; 3) the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer, including relevant industry specific market conditions and trends, geographic
location and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; and 4) the specific reasons that a security is in an unrealized loss position, including overall market conditions which
could affect liquidity.   

         Once
assumptions and estimates are made, any number of changes in facts and circumstances could cause us to subsequently determine that a fixed income or equity security is
other-than-temporarily impaired, including: 1) general economic conditions that are worse than previously forecasted or that have a greater adverse effect on a
particular issuer or industry sector than originally estimated; 2) changes in the facts and circumstances related to a particular issue or issuer's ability to meet all of its contractual
obligations; and 3) changes in facts and circumstances that result in changes to management's intent to sell or result in our assessment that it is more likely than not we will be required to
sell before recovery of the amortized cost basis of a fixed income security or causes a change in our ability or intent to hold an equity security until it recovers in value. Changes in assumptions,
facts and circumstances could result in additional charges to earnings in future periods to the extent that losses are realized. The charge to earnings, while potentially significant to net income,
would not have a significant effect on shareholders' equity, since our securities are designated as available for sale and carried at fair value and as a result, any related unrealized loss, net of
deferred income taxes and related DAC, deferred sales inducement costs ("DSI") and reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, would already be reflected as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income in shareholders' equity.   

         The
determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairment is an inherently subjective process based on periodic evaluation of the factors described
above. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. We update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in
other-than-temporary impairments in results of operations as such evaluations are revised. The use of different methodologies and assumptions in the determination of the amount
of other-than-temporary impairments may have a material effect on the amounts presented within the consolidated financial statements.   

         For
additional detail on investment impairments, see Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements.   

           Deferred policy acquisition costs amortization       We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring insurance policies and investment
contracts.
In accordance with GAAP, costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring insurance policies and investment contracts are deferred and recorded as an asset on the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position.   

         DAC
related to property-liability contracts is amortized into income as premiums are earned, typically over periods of six or twelve months. The amortization methodology for DAC related
to Allstate Financial policies and contracts includes significant assumptions and estimates.   

         DAC
related to traditional life insurance is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Significant
assumptions relating to estimated premiums, investment returns, as well as mortality, persistency and expenses to administer the business are established at the time the policy is issued and are
generally not revised during the life of the policy. The assumptions for determining the timing and amount of DAC amortization are consistent with the assumptions used to calculate the reserve for
life-contingent contract benefits. Any deviations from projected business in force resulting from actual policy terminations differing from expected levels and any estimated premium
deficiencies may result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these policies approximates the estimated lives of the
policies. The recovery of DAC is dependent upon the future profitability of the business. We periodically review the adequacy of reserves and recoverability of DAC for these policies on an aggregate
basis using actual experience. We aggregate all traditional life insurance products and immediate annuities with life contingencies in the analysis. In the event actual experience is significantly
adverse compared to the original assumptions and a premium deficiency is determined to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and a premium
deficiency reserve may be required if the remaining DAC balance is insufficient to absorb the deficiency. In 2010 and 2009, our reviews concluded that no premium deficiency adjustments were necessary,
primarily due to projected profit from traditional life insurance more than offsetting the projected losses in immediate   

  32  

annuities
with life contingencies. In 2008, for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, an aggregate premium deficiency of $336 million pre-tax
($219 million after-tax) resulted primarily from a study indicating that the annuitants on certain life-contingent contracts are projected to live longer than we
anticipated when the contracts were issued and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio yield. The deficiency was recorded through a reduction in DAC.   

         DAC
related to interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts is amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which
includes both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on
the prior period DAC balance using rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating
estimates of the rate of customer surrenders, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized during the surrender charge period, which is typically
10-20 years for interest-sensitive life and 5-10 years for fixed annuities. The cumulative DAC amortization is reestimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or
credit to results of operations when there is a difference between the incidence of actual versus expected gross profits in a reporting period or when there is a change in total EGP.   

         AGP
and EGP consist primarily of the following components: contract charges for the cost of insurance less mortality costs and other benefits (benefit margin); investment income and
realized capital gains and losses less interest credited (investment margin); and surrender and other contract charges less maintenance expenses (expense margin). The principal assumptions for
determining the amount of EGP are investment returns, including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of
persistency, mortality, expenses, and hedges if applicable, and these assumptions are reasonably likely to have the greatest impact on the amount of DAC amortization. Changes in these assumptions can
be offsetting and we are unable to reasonably predict their future movements or offsetting impacts over time.   

         Each
reporting period, DAC amortization is recognized in proportion to AGP for that period adjusted for interest on the prior period DAC balance. This amortization process includes an
assessment of AGP compared to EGP, the actual amount of business remaining in force and realized capital gains and losses on investments supporting the product liability. The impact of realized
capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC depends upon which product liability is supported by the assets that give rise to the gain or loss. If the AGP is greater than EGP in the period, but
the total EGP is unchanged, the amount of DAC amortization will generally increase, resulting in a current period decrease to earnings. The opposite result generally occurs when the AGP is less than
the EGP in the period, but the total EGP is unchanged. However, when DAC amortization or a component of gross profits for a quarterly period is potentially negative (which would result in an increase
of the DAC balance) as a result of negative AGP, the specific facts and circumstances surrounding the potential negative amortization are considered to determine whether it is appropriate for
recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Negative amortization is only recorded when the increased DAC balance is determined to be recoverable based on facts and circumstances. Negative
amortization was not recorded for certain fixed annuities during 2010, 2009 and 2008 periods in which significant capital losses were realized on their related investment portfolio. For products whose
supporting investments are exposed to capital losses in excess of our expectations which may cause periodic AGP to become temporarily negative, EGP and AGP utilized in DAC amortization may be modified
to exclude the excess capital losses.   

         Annually,
we review and update all assumptions underlying the projections of EGP, including investment returns, comprising investment income and realized capital gains and losses,
interest crediting rates, persistency, mortality, expenses and the effect of any hedges. At each reporting period, we assess whether any revisions to assumptions used to determine DAC amortization are
required. These reviews and updates may result in amortization acceleration or deceleration, which are commonly referred to as "DAC unlocking". If the update of assumptions causes total EGP to
increase, the rate of DAC amortization will generally decrease, resulting in a current period increase to earnings. A decrease to earnings generally occurs when the assumption update causes the total
EGP to decrease.   

         Over
the past three years, our most significant DAC assumption updates that resulted in a change to EGP and the amortization of DAC have been revisions to expected future investment
returns, primarily realized capital losses, mortality, expenses and the number of contracts in force or persistency. The following table provides the effect on DAC   

  33  

amortization
of changes in assumptions relating to the gross profit components of investment margin, benefit margin and expense margin during the years ended December 31.   

In 2010, DAC amortization deceleration related to changes in the investment margin component of EGP primarily related to interest-sensitive life
insurance and was due to higher than previously projected investment income and lower interest credited, partially offset by higher projected realized capital losses. The acceleration related to
benefit margin was primarily due to lower projected renewal premium (which is also expected to reduce persistency) on interest-sensitive life insurance, partially offset by higher than previously
projected revenues associated with variable life insurance due to appreciation in the underlying separate account valuations. The deceleration related to expense margin resulted from current and
expected expense levels lower than previously projected. DAC amortization acceleration related to changes in the investment margin component of EGP in the first quarter of 2009 was primarily due to an
increase in the level of expected realized capital losses in 2009 and 2010. The deceleration related to benefit margin was due to more favorable projected life insurance mortality. The acceleration
related to expense margin resulted from current and expected expense levels higher than previously projected. DAC amortization acceleration related to changes in the investment margin component of EGP
in 2008 was primarily due to the level of realized capital losses impacting actual gross profits in 2008 and the impact of realized capital losses on expected gross profits in 2009. The deceleration
related to benefit margin was due to more favorable projected life insurance mortality. The acceleration related to expense margin resulted from current and expected expense levels higher than
previously projected.   

         The
following table displays the sensitivity of reasonably likely changes in assumptions included in the gross profit components of investment margin or benefit margin to amortization of
the DAC balance as of December 31, 2010.   

($ in millions)    
     
   December 31, 2010 
Increase/(reduction) in DAC    

Increase in future investment margins of 25 basis points  
     
  $  
  70  

Decrease in future investment margins of 25 basis points  
     
  $  
  (78  
  )  

Decrease in future life mortality by 1%  
     
   $  
   
19  

Increase in future life mortality by 1%  
     
  $  
  (20  
  )  

Any potential changes in assumptions discussed above are measured without consideration of correlation among assumptions. Therefore, it would be
inappropriate to add them together in an attempt to estimate overall variability in amortization.   

         For
additional detail related to DAC, see the Allstate Financial Segment section of this document.   

Reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense estimation       Reserves are established to provide for the estimated costs of
paying
claims and claims expenses under insurance policies we have issued. Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of property-liability insurance claims and claims
expense reserves. These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including claims that have been incurred but not reported ("IBNR"), as of the financial
statement date.   

           Characteristics of reserves       Reserves are established independently of business segment management for each business segment and line of
business
based on estimates of the ultimate cost to settle claims, less losses that have been paid. The significant lines of business are auto, homeowners, and other lines for Allstate Protection, and
asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines for Discontinued Lines and Coverages. Allstate Protection's claims are typically reported promptly with relatively little reporting lag between
the date of occurrence and the date the loss is reported. Auto and homeowners liability losses generally take an average of about two years to settle, while auto physical damage, homeowners property
and other personal lines have an average settlement time of less than one year. Discontinued Lines and Coverages involve long-tail losses, such as those related to asbestos and
environmental claims, which often involve substantial reporting lags and extended times to settle.   

  34  

Reserves
are the difference between the estimated ultimate cost of losses incurred and the amount of paid losses as of the reporting date. Reserves are estimated for both reported and
unreported claims, and include estimates of all expenses associated with processing and settling all incurred claims. We update most of our reserve estimates quarterly and as new information becomes
available or as events emerge that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior year reserve estimates (reserve reestimates), which may be material, are determined by comparing
updated estimates of ultimate losses to prior estimates, and the differences are recorded as property-liability insurance claims and claims expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the
period such changes are determined. Estimating the ultimate cost of claims and claims expenses is an inherently uncertain and complex process involving a high degree of judgment and is subject to the
evaluation of numerous variables.   

           The actuarial methods used to develop reserve estimates       Reserve estimates are derived by using several different actuarial estimation methods
that
are variations on one primary actuarial technique. The actuarial technique is known as a "chain ladder" estimation process in which historical loss patterns are applied to actual paid losses and
reported losses (paid losses plus individual case reserves established by claim adjusters) for an accident year or a report year to create an estimate of how losses are likely to develop over time. An
accident year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims occurred. A report year refers to classifying claims based on the year in which the claims are reported. Both
classifications are used to prepare estimates of required reserves for payments to be made in the future. The key assumptions affecting our reserve estimates comprise data elements including claim
counts, paid losses, case reserves, and development factors calculated with this data.   

         In
the chain ladder estimation technique, a ratio (development factor) is calculated which compares current period results to results in the prior period for each accident year. A
three-year or two-year average development factor, based on historical results, is usually multiplied by the current period experience to estimate the development of losses of
each accident year into the next time period. The development factors for the future time periods for each accident year are compounded over the remaining future periods to calculate an estimate of
ultimate losses for each accident year. The implicit assumption of this technique is that an average of historical development factors is predictive of future loss development, as the significant size
of our experience data base achieves a high degree of statistical credibility in actuarial projections of this type. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process, the
implicit assumption being that a multi-year average development factor includes an adequate provision. Occasionally, unusual aberrations in loss patterns are caused by external and
internal factors such as changes in claim reporting, settlement patterns, unusually large losses, process changes, legal or regulatory changes, and other influences. In these instances, analyses of
alternate development factor selections are performed to evaluate the effect of these factors and actuarial judgment is applied to make appropriate development factor assumptions needed to develop a
best estimate of ultimate losses.   

           How reserve estimates are established and updated       Reserve estimates are developed at a very detailed level, and the results of these numerous
micro-level best estimates are aggregated to form a consolidated reserve estimate. For example, over one thousand actuarial estimates of the types described above are prepared each quarter to
estimate losses for each line of insurance, major components of losses (such as coverages and perils), major
states or groups of states and for reported losses and IBNR. The actuarial methods described above are used to analyze the settlement patterns of claims by determining the development factors for
specific data elements that are necessary components of a reserve estimation process. Development factors are calculated quarterly for data elements such as claim counts reported and settled, paid
losses, and paid losses combined with case reserves. The calculation of development factors from changes in these data elements also impacts claim severity trends, which is a common industry reference
used to explain changes in reserve estimates. The historical development patterns for these data elements are used as the assumptions to calculate reserve estimates.   

         Often,
several different estimates are prepared for each detailed component, incorporating alternative analyses of changing claim settlement patterns and other influences on losses, from
which we select our best estimate for each component, occasionally incorporating additional analyses and actuarial judgment, as described above. These micro-level estimates are not based on a single
set of assumptions. Actuarial judgments that may be applied to these components of certain micro-level estimates generally do not have a material impact on the consolidated level of reserves.
Moreover, this detailed micro-level process does not permit or result in a compilation of a company-wide roll up to generate a range of needed loss reserves that would be meaningful. Based
on our review of these estimates, our best estimate of required reserves for each state/line/coverage component is recorded for each accident year, and the required reserves for each component are
summed to create the reserve balance carried on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.   

  35  

Reserves are reestimated quarterly, by combining historical results with current actual results to calculate new development factors. This process incorporates the historic and latest
actual trends, and other underlying changes in the data elements used to calculate reserve estimates. New development factors are likely to differ from previous development factors used in prior
reserve estimates because actual results (claims reported or settled, losses paid, or changes to case reserves) occur differently than the implied assumptions contained in the previous development
factor calculations. If claims reported, paid losses, or case reserve changes are greater or less than the levels estimated by previous development factors, reserve reestimates increase or decrease.
When actual development of these data elements is different than the historical development pattern used in a prior period reserve estimate, a new reserve is determined. The difference between
indicated reserves based on new reserve estimates and recorded reserves (the previous estimate) is the amount of reserve reestimate and is recognized as an increase or decrease in property-liability
insurance claims and claims expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Total Property-liability reserve reestimates, after-tax, as a percent of net income in 2010, 2009 and 2008
were 11.1%, 8.5%, and (6.6)%, respectively. For Property-Liability, the 3-year average of reserve reestimates as a percentage of total reserves was a favorable 0.2%, for Allstate
Protection, the 3-year average of reserve estimates was a favorable 0.4% and for Discontinued Lines and Coverages, the 3-year average of reserve reestimates was an unfavorable
1.2%, each of these results being consistent within a reasonable actuarial tolerance for our respective businesses. A more detailed discussion of reserve reestimates is presented in the
Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

         The
following table shows net claims and claims expense reserves by operating segment and line of business as of December 31:   

Allstate Protection reserve estimates     

           Factors affecting reserve estimates       Reserve estimates are developed based on the processes and historical development trends as previously
described.
These estimates are considered in conjunction with known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including our experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, differing payment
patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic conditions. When we
experience changes of the type previously mentioned, we may need to apply actuarial judgment in the determination and selection of development factors considered more reflective of the new trends,
such as combining shorter or longer periods of historical results with current actual results to produce development factors based on two-year, three-year, or longer
development periods to reestimate our reserves. For example, if a legal change is expected to have a significant impact on the development of claim severity for a coverage which is part of a
particular line of insurance in a specific state, actuarial judgment is applied to determine appropriate development factors that will most accurately reflect the expected impact on that specific
estimate. Another example would be when a change in economic conditions is expected to affect the cost of repairs to damaged autos or property for a particular line, coverage, or state, actuarial
judgment is applied to determine appropriate development factors to use in the reserve estimate that will most accurately reflect the expected impacts on severity development.   

         As
claims are reported, for certain liability claims of sufficient size and complexity, the field adjusting staff establishes case reserve estimates of ultimate cost, based on their
assessment of facts and circumstances related to each individual claim. For other claims which occur in large volumes and settle in a relatively short time frame, it is not practical or efficient to
set case reserves for each claim, and a statistical case reserve is set for these claims based on estimation techniques previously described. In the normal course of business, we may also supplement
our claims   

  36  

processes
by utilizing third party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, and other professionals and information sources to assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe
related claims.   

         Historically,
the case reserves set by the field adjusting staff have not proven to be an entirely accurate estimate of the ultimate cost of claims. To provide for this, a development
reserve is estimated using previously described
processes, and allocated to pending claims as a supplement to case reserves. Typically, the case and supplemental development reserves comprise about 90% of total reserves.   

         Another
major component of reserves is IBNR. Typically, IBNR comprises about 10% of total reserves.   

         Generally,
the initial reserves for a new accident year are established based on severity assumptions for different business segments, lines and coverages based on historical
relationships to relevant inflation indicators, and reserves for prior accident years are statistically determined using processes previously described. Changes in auto current year claim severity are
generally influenced by inflation in the medical and auto repair sectors of the economy. We mitigate these effects through various loss management programs. Injury claims are affected largely by
medical cost inflation while physical damage claims are affected largely by auto repair cost inflation and used car prices. For auto physical damage coverages, we monitor our rate of increase in
average cost per claim against a weighted average of the Maintenance and Repair price index and the Parts and Equipment price index. We believe our claim settlement initiatives, such as improvements
to the claim review and settlement process, the use of special investigative units to detect fraud and handle suspect claims, litigation management and defense strategies, as well as various other
loss management initiatives underway, contribute to the mitigation of injury and physical damage severity trends.   

Changes
in homeowners current year claim severity are generally influenced by inflation in the cost of building materials, the cost of construction and property repair services, the cost
of replacing home furnishings and other contents, the types of claims that qualify for coverage, deductibles and other economic and environmental factors. We employ various loss management programs to
mitigate the effect of these factors.   

         As
loss experience for the current year develops for each type of loss, it is monitored relative to initial assumptions until it is judged to have sufficient statistical credibility.
From that point in time and forward, reserves are reestimated using statistical actuarial processes to reflect the impact actual loss trends have on development factors incorporated into the actuarial
estimation processes. Statistical credibility is usually achieved by the end of the first calendar year; however, when trends for the current accident year exceed initial assumptions sooner, they are
usually determined to be credible, and reserves are increased accordingly.   

         The
very detailed processes for developing reserve estimates, and the lack of a need and existence of a common set of assumptions or development factors, limits aggregate reserve level
testing for variability of data elements. However, by applying standard actuarial methods to consolidated historic accident year loss data for major loss types, comprising auto injury losses, auto
physical damage losses and homeowner losses, we develop variability analyses consistent with the way we develop reserves by measuring the potential variability of development factors, as described in
the section titled "Potential Reserve Estimate Variability" below.   

           Causes of reserve estimate uncertainty       Since reserves are estimates of unpaid portions of claims and claims expenses that have occurred,
including
IBNR losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, requires regular reevaluation and refinement of estimates to determine our ultimate loss estimate.   

At
each reporting date, the highest degree of uncertainty in estimates of losses arises from claims remaining to be settled for the current accident year and the most recent preceding
accident year. The greatest degree of
uncertainty exists in the current accident year because the current accident year contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been reported or settled but must be estimated as of the
current reporting date. Most of these losses relate to damaged property such as automobiles and homes, and medical care for injuries from accidents. During the first year after the end of an accident
year, a large portion of the total losses for that accident year are settled. When accident year losses paid through the end of the first year following the initial accident year are incorporated into
updated actuarial estimates, the trends inherent in the settlement of claims emerge more clearly. Consequently, this is the point in time at which we tend to make our largest reestimates of losses for
an accident year. After the second year, the losses that we pay for an accident year typically relate to claims that are more difficult to settle, such as those involving serious injuries or
litigation. Private passenger auto insurance provides a good illustration of the uncertainty of future loss estimates: our typical annual percentage payout of reserves for an accident year is
approximately 45% in the first year after the end of the accident year, 20% in the second year, 15% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year, and the remaining 10% thereafter.   

  37  

Reserves for catastrophe losses       Property-Liability claims and claims expense reserves also include reserves for catastrophe losses.
Catastrophe
losses are an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance industry that have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to potentially material year-to-year
fluctuations in our results of operations and financial position. We define a "catastrophe" as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million and
involves multiple first party policyholders, or an event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within
a certain amount of time following the event. Catastrophes are caused by various natural events including high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes,
earthquakes and volcanoes. We are also exposed to man-made catastrophic events, such as certain acts of terrorism or industrial accidents. The nature and level of catastrophes in any
period cannot be predicted.   

         The
estimation of claims and claims expense reserves for catastrophes also comprises estimates of losses from reported claims and IBNR, primarily for damage to property. In general, our
estimates for catastrophe reserves are based on claim adjuster inspections and the application of historical loss development factors as described previously. However, depending on the nature of the
catastrophe, as noted above, the estimation process can be further complicated. For example, for hurricanes, complications could include the inability of insureds to promptly report losses,
limitations placed on claims adjusting staff affecting their ability to inspect losses, determining whether losses are covered by our homeowners policy (generally for damage caused by wind or wind
driven rain) or specifically excluded coverage caused by flood, estimating additional living expenses, and assessing the impact of demand surge, exposure to mold damage, and the effects of numerous
other considerations, including the timing of a catastrophe in relation to other events, such as at or near the end of a financial reporting period, which can affect the availability of information
needed to estimate reserves for that reporting period. In these situations, we may need to adapt our practices to accommodate these circumstances in order to determine a best estimate of our losses
from a catastrophe. As an example, in 2005 to complete an estimate for certain areas affected by Hurricane Katrina and not yet inspected by our claims adjusting staff, or where we believed our
historical loss development factors were not predictive, we relied on analysis of actual claim notices received compared to total PIF, as well as visual, governmental and third party information,
including aerial photos, area observations, and data on wind speed and flood depth to the extent available.   

           Potential reserve estimate variability       The aggregation of numerous micro-level estimates for each business segment, line of insurance, major
components of losses (such as coverages and perils), and major states or groups of states for reported losses and IBNR forms the reserve liability recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. Because of this detailed approach to developing our reserve estimates, there is not a single set of assumptions that determine our reserve estimates at the consolidated level. Given the
numerous micro-level estimates for reported losses and IBNR, management does not believe the processes that we follow will produce a statistically credible or reliable actuarial reserve range that
would be meaningful. Reserve estimates, by their very nature, are very complex to determine and subject to significant judgment, and do not represent an exact determination for each outstanding claim.
Accordingly, as actual claims, and/or paid losses, and/or case reserve results emerge, our estimate of the ultimate cost to settle will be different than previously estimated.   

To
develop a statistical indication of potential reserve variability within reasonably likely possible outcomes, an actuarial technique (stochastic modeling) is applied to the
countrywide consolidated data elements for paid losses and paid losses combined with case reserves separately for injury losses, auto physical damage losses, and homeowners losses excluding
catastrophe losses. Based on the combined historical variability of the development factors calculated for these data elements, an estimate of the standard error or standard deviation around these
reserve estimates is calculated within each accident year for the last eleven years for each type of loss. The variability of these reserve estimates within one standard deviation of the mean (a
measure of frequency of dispersion often viewed to be an acceptable level of accuracy) is believed by management to represent a reasonable and statistically probable measure of potential variability.
Based on our products and coverages, historical experience, the statistical credibility of our extensive data and stochastic modeling of actuarial chain ladder methodologies used to develop reserve
estimates, we estimate that the potential variability of our Allstate Protection reserves, excluding reserves for catastrophe losses, within a reasonable probability of other possible outcomes, may be
approximately plus or minus 4%, or plus or minus $425 million in net income. A lower level of variability exists for auto injury losses, which comprise approximately 75% of reserves, due to
their relatively stable development patterns over a longer duration of time required to settle claims. Other types of losses, such as auto physical damage, homeowners losses and other losses, which
comprise about 25% of reserves, tend to have greater variability but are settled in a much shorter period of time. Although this evaluation reflects most reasonably likely outcomes, it is possible the
final outcome may fall below or above these amounts. Historical variability of reserve estimates is reported in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

  38  

Adequacy of reserve estimates       We believe our net claims and claims expense reserves are appropriately established based on available
methodology,
facts, technology, laws and regulations. We calculate and record a single best reserve estimate, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial standards, for each line of insurance, its components
(coverages and perils) and state, for reported losses and for IBNR losses, and as a result we believe that no other estimate is better than our recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties involved, the
ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on our best estimates.   

    Discontinued Lines and Coverages reserve estimates     

           Characteristics of Discontinued Lines exposure       We continue to receive asbestos and environmental claims. Asbestos claims relate primarily to
bodily
injuries asserted by people who were exposed to asbestos or products containing asbestos. Environmental claims relate primarily to pollution and related clean-up costs.   

         Our
exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims arises principally from assumed reinsurance coverage written during the 1960s through the
mid-1980s, including reinsurance on primary insurance written on large U.S. companies, and from direct excess insurance written from 1972 through 1985, including substantial excess general
liability coverages on large U.S. companies. Additional exposure stems from direct primary commercial insurance written during the 1960s through the mid-1980s. Other discontinued lines
exposures primarily relate to general liability and product liability mass tort claims, such as those for medical devices and other products.   

In
1986, the general liability policy form used by us and others in the property-liability industry was amended to introduce an "absolute pollution exclusion," which excluded coverage
for environmental damage claims, and to add an asbestos exclusion. Most general liability policies issued prior to 1987 contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage. General
liability policies issued in 1987 and thereafter contain annual aggregate limits for product liability coverage and annual aggregate limits for all coverages. Our experience to date is that these
policy form changes have limited the extent of our exposure to environmental and asbestos claim risks.   

         Our
exposure to liability for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines losses manifests differently depending on whether it arises from assumed reinsurance coverage, direct
excess insurance or direct primary commercial insurance. The direct insurance coverage we provided that covered asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines was substantially "excess" in
nature.   

         Direct
excess insurance and reinsurance involve coverage written by us for specific layers of protection above retentions and other insurance plans. The nature of excess coverage and
reinsurance provided to other insurers limits our exposure to loss to specific layers of protection in excess of policyholder retention on primary insurance plans. Our exposure is further limited by
the significant reinsurance that we had purchased on our direct excess business.   

Our
assumed reinsurance business involved writing generally small participations in other insurers' reinsurance programs. The reinsured losses in which we participate may be a proportion
of all eligible losses or eligible losses in excess of defined retentions. The majority of our assumed reinsurance exposure, approximately 85%, is for excess of loss coverage, while the remaining 15%
is for pro-rata coverage.   

         Our
direct primary commercial insurance business did not include coverage to large asbestos manufacturers. This business comprises a cross section of policyholders engaged in many
diverse business sectors located throughout the country.   

          How reserve estimates are established and updated       We conduct an annual review in the third quarter to evaluate and establish asbestos,
environmental
and other discontinued lines reserves. Changes to reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best practices and assuming no
change in the regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive methodology determines asbestos reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of exposure (i.e. claim
activity, potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, and determines environmental reserves based on assessments of the
characteristics of exposure (i.e. environmental damages, respective shares of liability of potentially responsible parties, appropriateness and cost of remediation) to pollution and related
clean-up costs. The number and cost of these claims is affected by intense advertising by trial lawyers seeking asbestos plaintiffs, and entities with asbestos exposure seeking bankruptcy
protection as a result of asbestos liabilities, initially causing a delay in the reporting of claims, often followed by an acceleration and an increase in claims and claims expenses as settlements
occur.   

         After
evaluating our insureds' probable liabilities for asbestos and/or environmental claims, we evaluate our insureds' coverage programs for such claims. We consider our insureds' total
available insurance coverage, including   

  39  

the
coverage we issued. We also consider relevant judicial interpretations of policy language and applicable coverage defenses or determinations, if any.   

         Evaluation
of both the insureds' estimated liabilities and our exposure to the insureds depends heavily on an analysis of the relevant legal issues and litigation environment. This
analysis is conducted by our specialized claims adjusting staff and legal counsel. Based on these evaluations, case reserves are established by claims adjusting staff and actuarial analysis is
employed to develop an IBNR reserve, which includes estimated potential reserve development and claims that have occurred but have not been reported. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, IBNR was
60.1% and 62.3%, respectively, of combined asbestos and environmental reserves.   

         For
both asbestos and environmental reserves, we also evaluate our historical direct net loss and expense paid and incurred experience to assess any emerging trends, fluctuations or
characteristics suggested by the aggregate paid and incurred activity.   

           Other Discontinued Lines and Coverages       The following table shows reserves for other discontinued lines which provide for remaining loss and
loss
expense liabilities related to business no longer written by us, other than asbestos and environmental, as of December 31.   

Other mass torts describes direct excess and reinsurance general liability coverage provided for cumulative injury losses other than asbestos and
environmental. Workers' compensation and commercial and other include run-off from discontinued direct primary, direct excess and reinsurance commercial insurance operations of various
coverage exposures other than asbestos and environmental. Reserves are based on considerations similar to those previously described, as they relate to the characteristics of specific individual
coverage exposures.   

          Potential reserve estimate variability       Establishing Discontinued Lines and Coverages net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other
discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are much greater than those presented by other types of claims. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long reporting delays,
uncertainty as to the number and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the determination, availability
and timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability; availability and collectability of recoveries from reinsurance; retrospectively determined premiums
and other contractual agreements; estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other asbestos
defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are covered, or were ever
intended to be covered, and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or
other contractual agreements. Courts have reached different and sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of
losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are determined; how policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether
clean-up costs represent insured property damage. Our reserves for asbestos and environmental exposures could be affected by tort reform, class action litigation, and other potential
legislation and judicial decisions. Environmental exposures could also be affected by a change in the existing federal Superfund law and similar state statutes. There can be no assurance that any
reform legislation will be enacted or that any such legislation will provide for a fair, effective and cost-efficient system for settlement of asbestos or environmental claims. We believe
these issues are not likely to be resolved in the near future, and the ultimate costs may vary materially from the amounts currently recorded resulting in material changes in loss reserves. Historical
variability of reserve estimates is demonstrated in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

Adequacy of reserve estimates       Management believes its net loss reserves for environmental, asbestos and other discontinued lines exposures are
appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws, regulations, and assessments of other pertinent factors and characteristics of exposure (i.e. claim activity, potential
liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by individual policyholders, assuming no change in the legal, legislative or economic environment. Due to the
uncertainties and factors described above, management believes it is not practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

  40  

Further discussion of reserve estimates       For further discussion of these estimates and quantification of the impact of reserve estimates,
reserve
reestimates and assumptions, see Notes 7 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements and the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of this document.   

           Reserve for life-contingent contract benefits estimation       Due to the long term nature of traditional life insurance,
life-contingent immediate annuities and voluntary health products, benefits are payable over many years; accordingly, the reserves are calculated as the present value of future expected
benefits to be paid, reduced by the present value of future expected net premiums. Long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations
and expenses are used when establishing the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under these insurance policies. These assumptions, which for traditional life insurance
are applied using the net level premium method, include provisions for adverse deviation and generally vary by characteristics such as type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. Future
investment yield assumptions are determined based upon prevailing investment yields as well as estimated reinvestment yields. Mortality, morbidity and policy termination assumptions are based on our
experience and industry experience. Expense assumptions include the estimated effects of inflation and expenses to be incurred beyond the premium-paying period. These assumptions are established at
the time the policy is issued, are consistent with assumptions for determining DAC amortization for these policies, and are generally not changed during the policy coverage period. However, if actual
experience emerges in a manner that is significantly adverse relative to the original assumptions, adjustments to DAC or reserves may be required resulting in a charge to earnings which could have a
material adverse effect on our operating results and
financial condition. We periodically review the adequacy of reserves and recoverability of DAC for these policies on an aggregate basis using actual experience. In the event actual experience is
significantly adverse compared to the original assumptions and a premium deficiency is determined to exist, any remaining unamortized DAC balance must be expensed to the extent not recoverable and the
establishment of a premium deficiency reserve may be required. In 2010 and 2009, our reviews concluded that no premium deficiency adjustments were necessary, primarily due to profit from traditional
life insurance more than offsetting the projected losses in immediate annuities with life contingencies. In 2008, for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, an
aggregate premium deficiency of $336 million pre-tax ($219 million after-tax) resulted primarily from a study indicating that the annuitants on certain
life-contingent contracts are projected to live longer than we anticipated when the contracts were issued and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio yield.
The deficiency was recorded through a reduction in DAC. We will continue to monitor the experience of our traditional life insurance and immediate annuities. We anticipate that mortality, investment
and reinvestment yields, and policy terminations are the factors that would be most likely to require premium deficiency adjustments to these reserves or related DAC.   

         For
further detail on the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits, see Note 8 of the consolidated financial statements.   

PROPERTY-LIABILITY 2010 HIGHLIGHTS     

Premiums written, an operating measure that is defined and reconciled to premiums earned in the Property-Liability
Operations section of the MD A, decreased 0.2% to $25.91 billion in 2010 from $25.97 billion in 2009.   
 
       Allstate brand standard auto premiums written increased 0.5% to $15.84 billion in 2010 from $15.76 billion
in 2009.           Allstate brand homeowners premiums written increased 2.1% to $5.75 billion in 2010 from $5.64 billion in
2009.           Encompass brand premiums written decreased 17.5% to $1.10 billion in 2010 from $1.33 billion in 2009.    
        Premium operating measures and statistics contributing to overall Allstate brand standard auto premiums written increase
were the following:  
 
       1.5% decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009           2.1% increase in the six month policy term
average gross premium before reinsurance to $443 in 2010 from $434 in 2009          0.2 point decrease in the six month renewal ratio to 88.7% in 2010 compared to 88.9% in 2009
          0.2% decrease in new issued applications in 2010 compared to 2009     
        Premium operating measures and statistics contributing to overall Allstate brand homeowners premiums written increase were
the following:  
 
       4.1% decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009           6.8% increase in the twelve month policy term
average gross premium before reinsurance to $943 in 2010 from $883 in 2009          0.3 point increase in the twelve month renewal ratio to 88.4% in 2010 compared to 88.1% in 2009
          3.6% decrease in new issued applications in 2010 compared to 2009           $27 million decrease in catastrophe reinsurance
 costs to $534 million in 2010 from $561 million in
2009    
  
  41  

Factors comprising the Allstate brand standard auto loss ratio increase of 1.4 points to 70.7 in 2010 from 69.3 in 2009
were the following:  
 
       2.0% increase in standard auto claim frequency for property damage in 2010 compared to 2009           6.2% increase in standard auto claim
frequency for bodily injury in 2010 compared to 2009           0.5% decrease in auto paid claim severities for property damage in 2010 compared to 2009    
       0.3% decrease in auto paid claim severities for bodily injury in 2010 compared to 2009     
        Factors comprising the Allstate brand homeowners loss ratio, which includes catastrophes, increase of 2.5 points to 82.1
in 2010 from 79.6 in 2009 were the following:  
 
       2.3 point increase in the effect of catastrophe losses to 31.3 points in 2010 compared to 29.0 points in 2009          1.1% decrease in
homeowner claim frequency, excluding catastrophes, in 2010 compared to 2009           1.6% increase in paid claim severity, excluding catastrophes, in 2010 compared to 2009
    
        Factors comprising the $138 million increase in catastrophe losses to $2.21 billion in 2010 compared to
$2.07 billion in 2009 were the following:  
 
       90 events with losses of $2.37 billion in 2010 compared to 82 events with losses of $2.24 billion in 2009          $163 million
favorable prior year reserve reestimates in 2010 compared to $169 million favorable reserve
reestimates in 2009     
        Factors comprising prior year reserve reestimates of $159 million favorable in 2010 compared to $112 million
favorable in 2009 included:  
 
       prior year reserve reestimates related to auto, homeowners and other personal lines in 2010 contributed
$179 million favorable, $23 million favorable and $15 million unfavorable, respectively, compared to prior year reserve reestimates in 2009 of $57 million favorable,
$168 million favorable and $89 million unfavorable, respectively           prior year reestimates in 2010 are attributable to favorable prior year catastrophe reestimates and severity
development
that was better than expected, partially offset by litigation settlements     
        Property-Liability underwriting income was $495 million in 2010 compared to $995 million in 2009.
Underwriting income, a measure not based on GAAP, is defined below.           Property-Liability investments as of December 31, 2010 were $35.05 billion, an increase of 1.5% from
$34.53 billion as of December 31, 2009. Net investment income was $1.19 billion in 2010, a decrease of 10.5% from $1.33 billion in 2009.           Net realized capital losses
were $321 million in 2010 compared to $168 million in 2009.    

PROPERTY-LIABILITY OPERATIONS     

            Overview    Our Property-Liability operations consist of two business segments: Allstate
Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages. Allstate Protection comprises two brands, the Allstate brand and Encompass  brand. Allstate Protection is principally engaged in the sale
of personal property and casualty insurance, primarily private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, to individuals in the United States and Canada. Discontinued Lines and Coverages includes
results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. These segments are consistent with the groupings of financial
information that management uses to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of resources.   

         Underwriting
income, a measure that is not based on GAAP and is reconciled to net income below, is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expense ("losses"), amortization
of DAC, operating costs and expenses and restructuring and related charges, as determined using GAAP. We use this measure in our evaluation of results of operations to analyze the profitability of the
Property-Liability insurance operations separately from investment results. It is also an integral component of incentive compensation. It is useful for investors to evaluate the components of income
separately and in the aggregate when reviewing performance. Net income is the GAAP measure most directly comparable to underwriting income. Underwriting income should not be considered as a substitute
for net income and does not reflect the overall profitability of the business.   

         The
table below includes GAAP operating ratios we use to measure our profitability. We believe that they enhance an investor's understanding of our profitability. They are calculated as
follows:   

Claims and claims expense ("loss") ratio   the ratio of claims and claims expense to premiums earned.
Loss ratios include the impact of catastrophe losses.           Expense ratio   the ratio of amortization of DAC, operating costs and expenses, and restructuring and
related charges to premiums earned.           Combined ratio   the ratio of claims and claims expense, amortization of DAC, operating costs and
expenses, and restructuring and related charges to premiums earned. The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the    
  42  

expense
ratio. The difference between 100% and the combined ratio represents underwriting income as a percentage of premiums earned, or underwriting margin.   

We
have also calculated the following impacts of specific items on the GAAP operating ratios because of the volatility of these items between fiscal periods.    

Effect of catastrophe losses on combined ratio   the percentage of catastrophe losses included in
claims and claims expense to premiums earned. This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.           Effect of prior year reserve reestimates on combined
ratio   the percentage of prior year reserve
reestimates included in claims and claims expense to premiums earned. This ratio includes prior year reserve reestimates of catastrophe losses.           Effect of restructuring and related
charges on combined ratio   the percentage of restructuring and
related charges to premiums earned.           Effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on combined ratio   the ratio of claims and claims expense
and other costs and expenses in the Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment to Property-Liability premiums earned. The sum of the effect of Discontinued Lines and Coverages on the combined ratio and
the Allstate Protection combined ratio is equal to the Property-Liability combined ratio.    
  43  

Summarized financial data, a reconciliation of underwriting income to net income, and GAAP operating ratios for our Property-Liability operations are presented in the following table.   

(1)     Prior
year reserve reestimates included in catastrophe losses totaled $163 million favorable in 2010, $169 million favorable in
2009 and $125 million unfavorable in 2008.    

ALLSTATE PROTECTION SEGMENT     

           Overview and strategy       The Allstate Protection segment sells primarily private passenger auto and homeowners insurance to individuals through
Allstate
Exclusive Agencies and directly through call centers and the internet under the Allstate brand. We also sell auto and homeowners insurance through independent agencies under both the Allstate brand
and the Encompass brand.   

         Our
operating priorities for the Protection segment include achieving profitable market share growth for our auto business as well as earning acceptable returns on our homeowners
business. Key goals include:   

Improving customer loyalty and retention           Deepening customer product relationships           Improving competitive position through pricing sophistication, claims efficiency and expense management    
 
  44  

Investing in the effectiveness and reach of our multiple distribution channels           Maintaining a strong capital foundation through risk
management and effective resource allocation    

Our
customer-focused strategy for the Allstate brand aligns targeted marketing, product innovation, distribution effectiveness, and pricing toward acquiring and retaining an increased
share of our target customers, which generally refers to consumers who want to purchase multiple products from one insurance provider including auto, homeowners and financial products, who have better
retention and potentially present more favorable prospects for profitability over the course of their relationships with us.   

         The
Allstate brand utilizes marketing delivered to target customers to promote our strategic priorities, with messaging that continues to communicate affordability and ease of doing
business with Allstate, as well as the importance of having proper coverage by highlighting our comprehensive product and coverage options.   

         At
Allstate we differentiate ourselves from competitors by offering a comprehensive range of innovative product options and features as well as product customization, including Allstate
Your Choice Auto  with options such as accident forgiveness, safe driving deductible rewards and a safe driving bonus. We will continue to focus on developing and introducing products and
services that benefit today's consumers and further differentiate Allstate and enhance the customer experience. We will deepen customer relationships through value-added customer interactions and
expanding our presence in households with multiple products by providing financial protection for customer needs.   

         Within
our multiple distribution channels we are undergoing a focused effort to enhance our capabilities by implementing uniform processes and standards to elevate the level and
consistency of our customer experience.   

         We
continue to enhance technology to integrate our distribution channels, improve customer service, facilitate the introduction of new products and services and reduce infrastructure
costs related to supporting agencies and handling claims. These actions and others are designed to optimize the effectiveness of our distribution and service channels by increasing the productivity of
the Allstate brand's exclusive agencies and our direct channel.   

         Our
pricing and underwriting strategies and decisions, made in conjunction within a program called Strategic Risk Management, are designed to enhance both our competitive position and
our profit potential. Pricing
sophistication, which underlies our Strategic Risk Management program, uses a number of risk evaluation factors including insurance scoring, to the extent permissible by regulations, based on
information that is obtained from credit reports. Our updated auto risk evaluation pricing model was implemented for 9 states in 2010 and these implementations will continue in other states throughout
2011. Our pricing strategy involves marketplace pricing and underwriting decisions that are based on these risk evaluation models and an evaluation of competitors.   

         We
will also continue to provide a range of discounts to attract more target customers. For Allstate brand auto and homeowners business, we continue to improve our mix of customers
towards those customers that have better retention and thus potentially present more favorable prospects for profitability over the course of their relationships with us. For homeowners, we will
address rate adequacy and improve underwriting and claim effectiveness.   

         Our
strategy for the Encompass brand includes enhancing our premier package policy (providing customers with the ability to simplify their insurance needs by consolidating their coverage
into one policy, with one bill, one premium and one renewal date) to appeal to customers with broad personal lines coverage needs and that value an independent agent. Additionally, Encompass is
focused on increasing distribution effectiveness and improving agency technology interfaces to become the package carrier of choice for aligned agencies to generate stable, consistent earnings growth.   

The
Allstate Protection segment also includes a separate organization called Emerging Businesses which comprises Business Insurance (commercial products for small business owners),
Consumer Household (specialty products including motorcycle, boat, renters and condominium insurance policies), Allstate Dealer Services (insurance and non-insurance products sold
primarily to auto dealers), Allstate Roadside Services (retail and wholesale roadside assistance products) and Ivantage (insurance agency). Premiums written by Emerging Businesses, through all
channels including the direct channel, were $2.43 billion in 2010. We expect to accelerate profitable growth in Emerging Businesses during 2011.   

We
continue to manage our property catastrophe exposure in order to provide our shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in our property business and to reduce the
variability of our earnings, while providing protection to our customers. Our property business includes personal homeowners, commercial property and other property lines. As of December 31,
2010, we continue to be within our goal to have no more than a 1% likelihood of exceeding annual aggregate catastrophe losses by $2 billion, net of reinsurance, from hurricanes and earthquakes,
based on modeled assumptions and applications currently available. The use of different assumptions and updates to industry models could materially change the projected loss.   

  45  

Property
catastrophe exposure management includes purchasing reinsurance to provide coverage for known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and
other catastrophes. We are also working for changes in the regulatory environment, including recognizing the need for and improving appropriate risk based pricing and promoting the creation of
government sponsored, privately funded solutions for mega-catastrophes. While the actions that we take will be primarily focused on reducing the catastrophe exposure in our property
business, we also consider their impact on our ability to market our auto lines.   

         Pricing
of property products is typically intended to establish returns that we deem acceptable over a long-term period. Losses, including losses from catastrophic events and
weather-related losses (such as wind, hail, lightning and freeze losses not meeting our criteria to be declared a catastrophe) are accrued on an occurrence basis within the policy period. Therefore,
in any reporting period, loss experience from catastrophic events and weather-related losses may contribute to negative or positive underwriting performance relative to the expectations we
incorporated into the products' pricing. We pursue rate increases where indicated using a newly re-designed methodology that appropriately addresses the changing costs of losses from
catastrophes such as severe weather and the net cost of reinsurance.   

    Allstate Protection outlook     

Allstate Protection will emphasize attracting and retaining our target customers while maintaining pricing discipline.          We expect that
volatility in the level of catastrophes we experience will contribute to variation in our underwriting
results; however, this volatility will be mitigated due to our catastrophe management actions, including the purchase of reinsurance.           We will continue to study the efficiencies of our
operations and cost structure for additional areas where costs may be
reduced.    

Premiums written   , an operating measure, is the amount of premiums charged for policies issued during a fiscal period. Premiums earned is a
GAAP measure. Premiums are considered earned and are included in the financial results on a pro-rata basis over the policy period. The portion of premiums written applicable to the
unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums on our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Since the Allstate brand policy periods are typically 6 months for auto
and 12 months for homeowners, and the Encompass standard auto and homeowners policy periods are typically 12 months and non-standard auto policy periods are typically
6 months, rate changes will generally be recognized in premiums earned over a period of 6 to 24 months.   

The
following table shows the unearned premium balance as of December 31 and the timeframe in which we expect to recognize these premiums as earned.   

(1)     Other
personal lines include commercial, condominium, renters, involuntary auto and other personal lines.    

46  

A reconciliation of premiums written to premiums earned is shown in the following table.   

Premiums written by brand are shown in the following table.   

Allstate brand premiums written, excluding Allstate Canada, by the direct channel increased 19.8% to $745 million in 2010 from
$622 million in 2009, reflecting an impact by profitability management actions taken in New York, Florida, California and North Carolina, following a 25.4% increase from $496 million in
2008. The direct channel includes call centers and the internet.   

         Premiums
earned by brand are shown in the following tables.   

Premium operating measures and statistics that are used to analyze the business are calculated and described below. Measures and statistics
presented for Allstate brand exclude Allstate Canada, loan protection and specialty auto.    

PIF:    Policy counts are based on items rather than customers. A multi-car customer would generate
multiple item (policy) counts, even if all cars were insured under one policy.           Average premium-gross written:    Gross premiums written divided by issued item count.
Gross premiums written
include the impacts from discounts and surcharges, and exclude the impacts from mid-term premium adjustments, ceded reinsurance premiums, and premium refund accruals. Allstate brand
average gross premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 6 months for standard and non-standard auto and 12 months for homeowners. Encompass brand
average gross premiums represent the appropriate policy term for each line, which is 12 months for standard auto and homeowners and 6 months for non-standard auto.          Renewal
ratio:    Renewal policies issued during the period, based on contract effective dates, divided by the
total policies issued 6 months prior for standard and non-standard auto (12 months prior for Encompass brand standard auto) or 12 months prior for homeowners.    
 
  47  

New issued applications:    Item counts of automobiles or homeowners insurance applications for insurance
policies that were issued during the period. Does not include automobiles that are added by existing customers.           Net items added to existing policies:    Net
increases in insured cars by policy endorsement activity.    

Standard auto premiums written    totaled $16.49 billion in 2010, a decrease of 0.5% from $16.56 billion in 2009, following a
2.2% decrease in 2009 from $16.94 billion in 2008.   

(1)     Policy
term is six months for Allstate brand and twelve months for Encompass brand.    

Allstate brand standard auto premiums written totaled $15.84 billion in 2010, an increase of 0.5% from $15.76 billion in 2009,
following a 1.0% decrease in 2009 from $15.92 billion in 2008. Contributing to the Allstate brand standard auto premiums written increase were the following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009, due to fewer policies available to
renew and a 0.7% decrease in net items added to existing policies to 1,498 thousand from 1,509 thousand, reflecting industry economic trends for declines in the number of cars per
household           0.2% decrease in new issued applications on a countrywide basis to 2,025 thousand in 2010 from
2,029 thousand in 2009 impacted by decreases in Florida and California, due in part to rate actions that were approved in 2009 in these markets and other actions to improve profitability.
Excluding Florida and California, new issued applications on a countrywide basis increased 12.9% to 1,606 thousand in 2010 from 1,423 thousand in 2009. New issued application increased
in 40 states, most of which offer an auto discount (the Preferred Package Discount) for our target customer.           increased average gross premium in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to
rate changes, partially offset by customers
electing to lower coverage levels of their policy           0.2 point decrease in the renewal ratio in 2010 compared to 2009, reflects profit management actions in California, New
York and Georgia as well as the effects of the direct channel which has a lower renewal ratio. Excluding these items the renewal ratio had a 0.3 point increase.    

Allstate
brand standard auto premiums written decreased in 2009 compared to 2008. Contributing to the Allstate brand standard auto premiums written decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 were
the following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008, due to fewer policies available to
renew and a 10.1% decrease in net items added to existing policies to 1,509 thousand from 1,678 thousand, reflecting industry economic trends for declines in the number of cars per
household           12.3% increase in new issued applications on a countrywide basis to 2,029 thousand in 2009 from
1,807 thousand in 2008           increase in average gross premium in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to rate changes, partially offset by customers
electing to change coverage levels of their policy    

The
level of Encompass premiums written continues to be impacted by comprehensive actions designed to improve Encompass brand profitability, which will continue through 2011. Some of the
actions contributing to the Encompass brand standard auto premiums written decrease in 2010 compared to 2009 were the following:   

Implemented rate increases where indicated           Strengthened underwriting guidelines           Revised renewal down payment requirements           Terminated relationships with certain independent agencies           Non-renewal of underperforming business segments           Discontinued writing the Special Value product (middle market auto product focused on segment
auto) and Deerbrook
(non-standard auto) in certain states           Non-renewal of property in Florida    

48  

These
actions have allowed Encompass to position itself with aligned agencies as the package policy carrier of choice for customers with broad personal lines coverage needs in order to
drive stable, consistent earnings growth over time.   

         Rate
changes that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued. The following table shows the rate changes that were approved for
standard auto and does not include rating plan enhancements, including the introduction of discounts and surcharges, that result in no change in the overall rate level in the state. These rate changes
do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing business in a state.   

(1)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a percentage of total
countrywide prior year-end premiums written.       (2)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a percentage of its
respective total prior year-end premiums written in those states.       (3)     Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for standard auto totaled $218 million in 2010
compared to $784 million in 2009.       (4)     Includes
Washington D.C.       (5)     Includes
targeted rate decreases in certain markets to improve our competitive position for target customers.    

Non-standard auto premiums written    totaled $889 million in 2010, a decrease of
6.3% from $949 million in 2009, following a 10.3% decrease in 2009 from $1.06 billion in 2008.   

Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written totaled $883 million in 2010, a decrease of 4.7% from $927 million in
2009, following a 8.9% decrease in 2009 from $1.02 billion in 2008. Contributing to the Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written decrease in 2010 compared to 2009 were the
following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009, due to a decline in the number of
policies available to renew and fewer new issued applications           14.9% decrease in new issued applications to 309 thousand in 2010 from 363 thousand in 2009          increase in average gross premium in 2010 compared to 2009           1.1 point decrease in the renewal ratio in 2010 compared to 2009    

Allstate
brand non-standard auto premiums written decreased in 2009 compared to 2008. Contributing to the Allstate brand non-standard auto premiums written
decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 were the following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008, due to new business production that
was insufficient to offset declines in the renewal ratio and polices available to renew           10.7% increase in new issued applications to 363 thousand in 2009 from 328 thousand in
2008          decrease in average gross premium in 2009 compared to 2008
          decrease in the renewal ratio in 2009 compared to 2008    

Rate
changes that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued. The following table shows the rate changes that were approved for
non-standard auto and does not include rating plan enhancements, including the introduction of discounts and surcharges, that result in no change in the   

  49  

overall
rate level in the state. These rate changes do not reflect initial rates filed for insurance subsidiaries initially writing business in a state.   

(1)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a percentage of total
countrywide prior year-end premiums written.       (2)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a percentage of its
respective total prior year-end premiums written in those states.       (3)     Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for non-standard auto totaled
$41 million in 2010 compared to $25 million in 2009.       (4)     Includes
Washington D.C.    

Homeowners premiums written    totaled $6.11 billion in 2010, an increase of 1.1% from
$6.04 billion in 2009, following a 1.1% decrease in 2009 from $6.11 billion in 2008. Excluding the cost of catastrophe reinsurance, premiums written increased 0.6% in 2010 compared to
2009. For a more detailed discussion on reinsurance, see the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A and Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements.   

Allstate brand homeowners premiums written totaled $5.75 billion in 2010, an increase of 2.1% from $5.64 billion in 2009, following
a 2009 comparable to 2008. Contributing to the Allstate brand homeowners premiums written increase in 2010 compared to 2009 were the following:   

decrease in PIF of 4.1% as of December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009, following a 3.9% decrease as
of December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008, due to fewer policies available to renew and fewer new issued applications           3.6% decrease in new issued applications to
536 thousand in 2010 from 556 thousand in 2009. Our Castle Key
Indemnity Company subsidiary continues to have a favorable impact on new issued applications, due to a 2008 regulatory consent decree to sell 50,000 new homeowners policies in Florida by November
2011. Excluding Florida, new issued applications on a countrywide basis decreased 12.4% to 487 thousand in 2010 from 556 thousand in 2009.           increase in average gross premium in
2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to rate changes           0.3 point increase in the renewal ratio in 2010 compared to 2009           decrease in the net cost of our catastrophe reinsurance program in 2010 compared to 2009    

As
of December 31, 2010, an increased Home and Auto discount is now available in 40 states. This has successfully shifted our mix of new business towards target customers.   

Actions
taken to manage our catastrophe exposure in areas with known exposure to hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, fires following earthquakes and other catastrophes have had an impact
on our new business writings and retention for homeowners insurance, and this impact will continue in 2011, although to a lesser degree. For a more detailed discussion on exposure management actions,
see the Catastrophe Management section of the MD A.   

         Allstate
brand homeowners premiums written in 2009 were comparable to 2008. Contributing to the Allstate brand homeowners premiums written in 2009 compared to 2008 were the
following:   

decrease in PIF as of December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008, due to fewer policies available to
renew and fewer new issued applications           6.4% decrease in new issued applications to 556 thousand in 2009 from 594 thousand in 2008          increase in average gross premium in 2009 compared to 2008, primarily due to rate increases, partially offset by the
impact of reduced PIF in catastrophe management areas with higher average gross premiums and a state insurance department initiated rate reduction in California    
 
  50  

increase in the renewal ratio in 2009 compared to 2008 in part driven by less non-renewal activity in coastal
states that are more susceptible to major catastrophes           decrease in the net cost of our catastrophe reinsurance program    

Rate
changes that are indicated based on loss trend analysis to achieve a targeted return will continue to be pursued. The following table shows the rate changes that were approved for
homeowners, including rate changes approved based on our net cost of reinsurance, and does not include rating plan enhancements, including the introduction of discounts and surcharges, that result in
no change in the overall rate level in the state.   

(1)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a percentage of total
countrywide prior year-end premiums written.       (2)     Represents
the impact in the states where rate changes were approved during 2010 and 2009, respectively, as a percentage of its
respective total prior year-end premiums written in those states.       (3)     Based
on historical premiums written in those states, rate changes approved for homeowners totaled $424 million in 2010
compared to $534 million in 2009.       (4)     Includes
Washington D.C.     

Underwriting results    are shown in the following table.   

(1)     During
2008, $45 million of IBNR losses were reclassified from standard auto to other personal lines to be consistent
with the recording of excess liability policies' premiums and losses.    

Allstate Protection experienced underwriting income of $526 million in 2010 compared to $1.03 billion in 2009, primarily due to
decreases in standard auto underwriting income and increases in homeowners underwriting losses, partially offset by increases in other personal lines underwriting income. Standard auto underwriting
income decreased 29.9% to an underwriting income of $692 million in 2010 from an underwriting income of $987 million in 2009 primarily due to increases in auto claim frequency and
expenses and a $25 million litigation settlement, partially offset by favorable reserve reestimates and decreases in catastrophe losses. Homeowners underwriting loss increased
$210 million to an underwriting loss of $335 million in 2010 from an underwriting loss of $125 million in 2009 primarily due to a $75 million unfavorable prior year reserve
reestimate related to a litigation settlement and increases in   

  51  

expenses
and catastrophe losses, including prior year reestimates for catastrophes, partially offset by average earned premiums increasing faster than loss costs. Other personal lines underwriting
income increased 6.7% to an underwriting income of $95 million in 2010 from an underwriting income of $89 million in 2009 primarily due to lower unfavorable reserve reestimates. For
further discussion and quantification of the impact of reserve estimates and assumptions, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves
sections of the MD A.   

         Allstate
Protection experienced underwriting income of $1.03 billion during 2009 compared to $189 million in 2008 primarily due to decreases in homeowners underwriting
loss, partially offset by decreases in standard auto underwriting income. Homeowners underwriting loss decreased 89.4% to an underwriting loss of $125 million in 2009 from an underwriting loss
of $1.18 billion in 2008, primarily due to lower catastrophes losses, partially offset by increases in homeowner claim frequency and claim severities excluding catastrophes. Standard auto
underwriting income decreased 20.9% to $987 million in 2009 from $1.25 billion in 2008, primarily due to increases in auto claim frequency and lower premiums earned.   

            Catastrophe losses    in 2010 were $2.21 billion as detailed in the table below. This compares to catastrophe losses in 2009 of
$2.07 billion.   

         We
define a "catastrophe" as an event that produces pre-tax losses before reinsurance in excess of $1 million and involves multiple first party policyholders, or an
event that produces a number of claims in excess of a preset, per-event threshold of average claims in a specific area, occurring within a certain amount of time following the event.
Catastrophes are caused by various natural events including high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes. We are also exposed to
man-made catastrophic events, such as certain acts of terrorism or industrial accidents. The nature and level of catastrophes in any future period cannot be reliably predicted.   

         Catastrophe
losses related to events that occurred by the size of the event are shown in the following table.   

Catastrophe losses incurred by the type of event are shown in the following table.   

52  

Combined ratio       Loss ratios are a measure of profitability. Loss ratios by product, and expense and combined ratios by brand, are shown in the
following table. These ratios are defined in the Property-Liability Operations section of the MD A.   

(1)     During
2008, $45 million of IBNR losses were reclassified from standard auto to other personal lines to be consistent with the
recording of excess liability policies' premiums and losses.       (2)     Ratios
are calculated using the premiums earned for the respective line of business.    

Standard auto loss ratio    for the Allstate brand increased 1.4 points in 2010 compared to 2009 due
to higher claim frequency and a $25 million litigation settlement, partially offset by favorable reserve reestimates and lower catastrophe losses. The increase is primarily driven by increases
in Florida and New York, which have higher loss ratios than the countrywide average. In 2010, claim frequencies in the bodily injury and physical damage coverages have increased compared to 2009, but
remain within historical norms. Bodily injury and physical damage coverages severity results increased in line with historical Consumer Price Index ("CPI") trends. Standard auto loss ratio for the
Allstate brand increased 1.2 points in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher claim frequencies. In 2009, claim frequencies in the physical damage and bodily injury coverages have returned to historical
norms following exceptionally low levels in 2008. Bodily injury severity results in 2009 increased in line with historical CPI trends. Claims severity decreased in 2009 for the physical damage
coverages, partially offsetting the increased frequencies.   

            Non-standard auto loss ratio    for the Allstate brand increased 0.1 point in 2010 compared to 2009 due to higher claim
frequencies, partially offset by higher favorable reserve reestimates and lower catastrophe losses. Bodily injury and physical damage coverages severity results increased in line with historical CPI
trends. Non-standard auto loss ratio for the Allstate brand increased 4.8 points in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher claim frequencies. Claim frequencies increased for both physical
damage and casualty coverages in 2009 compared to 2008. Bodily injury severity results in 2009 increased in line with historical CPI trends. Claims severity decreased in 2009 for the physical damage
coverages, partially offsetting the increased frequencies.   

            Homeowners loss ratio    for the Allstate brand increased 2.5 points to 82.1 in 2010 from 79.6 in 2009 due to a $75 million
unfavorable prior year reserve reestimate related to a litigation settlement and higher catastrophe losses including prior year reserve reestimates for catastrophes, partially offset by average earned
premiums increasing faster than loss costs. Homeowners loss ratio for the Allstate brand decreased 16.7 points to 79.6 in 2009 from 96.3 in 2008 due to lower catastrophe losses, partially offset by
higher frequencies excluding catastrophes and severities. Frequencies excluding catastrophes increased in 2009 compared to 2008, in part, due to inclement weather in 2009, including an   

  53  

increase
in freeze related claims, driven by winter weather in the first quarter of 2009. Theft claims also drove part of the increase in frequencies in 2009 compared to 2008. In 2009, homeowner
claims severity, excluding catastrophes, increased compared to 2008.   

            Expense ratio    for Allstate Protection increased 0.5 points in 2010 compared to 2009. Restructuring costs decreased 0.3 points in 2010
compared to 2009, driven by prior year costs associated with claim office consolidations, reorganization of Business Insurance and technology prioritization and efficiency efforts. Excluding
restructuring, the expense ratio for Allstate Protection increased 0.8 points in 2010 compared to 2009, driven by additional marketing expenses and increases in net costs of employee benefits,
partially offset by reduced guaranty fund accrual levels and improved operational efficiencies. The expense ratio for Allstate Protection decreased 0.4 points in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to
the impact of lower earned premium offset by improved operational efficiencies and more focused spending, particularly on technology, and decreases in the net cost of benefits due to favorable
investment results.   

         The
impact of specific costs and expenses on the expense ratio are included in the following table.   

The expense ratio for the standard auto and homeowners businesses generally approximates the total Allstate Protection expense ratio. The expense
ratio for the non-standard auto business generally is lower than the total Allstate Protection expense ratio due to lower agent commission rates and higher average premiums for
non-standard auto as compared to standard auto. The Encompass brand DAC amortization is higher on average than Allstate brand DAC amortization due to higher commission rates.   

DAC       We establish a DAC asset for costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring business, principally agents' remuneration,
premium
taxes, certain underwriting costs and direct mail solicitation expenses. For the Allstate Protection business, DAC is amortized to income over the period in which premiums are earned. The balance of
DAC for each product type as of December 31 is included in the following table.   

Catastrophe management     

           Historical catastrophe experience       Since the beginning of 1992, the average annual impact of catastrophes on our Property-Liability loss ratio
was 7.5
points. However, this average does not reflect the impact of some of the more significant actions we have taken to limit our catastrophe exposure. Consequently, it is useful to consider the impact of
catastrophes after excluding losses that are now partially or substantially covered by the California Earthquake Authority ("CEA"), the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF") or placed with a
third party, such as hurricane coverage in Hawaii. The average annual impact of all catastrophes, excluding losses from Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki and losses from California earthquakes, on our
Property-Liability loss ratio was 6.5 points since the beginning of 1992.   

  54  

Comparatively,
the average annual impact of catastrophes on the homeowners loss ratio for the years 1992 through 2010 is shown in the following table.   

Over time, we have limited our aggregate insurance exposure to catastrophe losses in certain regions of the country that are subject to high
levels of natural catastrophes. Limitations include our participation in various state facilities, such as the CEA, which provides insurance for California earthquake losses; the FHCF, which provides
reimbursements to participating insurers for certain qualifying Florida hurricane losses; and other state facilities, such as wind pools. However, the impact of these actions may be diminished by the
growth in insured values, and the effect of state insurance laws and regulations. In addition, in various states we are required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint
underwriting associations that provide insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Because of our participation in these
and other state facilities such as wind pools, we may be exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities and to assessments from these facilities.   

         We
continue to take actions to maintain an appropriate level of exposure to catastrophic events, including the following:   

We have increased our utilization of wind storm pools. For example, in Texas we are ceding significant wind exposure
related to insured property located in wind pool eligible areas along the coast including the Galveston Islands.           We have ceased writing new homeowners business in California. We will
continue to renew current policyholders and have a
renewal ratio of approximately 92% in California.           Encompass Floridian Insurance Company and Encompass Floridian Indemnity Company ceased providing property insurance in the
State of Florida.           We ceased offering renewals on certain homeowners insurance policies in New York in certain down-state
geographical locations. The level of non-renewals in New York is limited by state statute.    

Hurricanes     

         We consider the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes generally to be major metropolitan centers in counties
along the eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. Usually, the average premium on a property policy near these coasts is greater than in other areas. However, average premiums are not considered
commensurate with the inherent risk of loss. In addition and as explained in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements, in various states Allstate is subject to assessments from assigned
risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations providing insurance for wind related property losses.   

         We
have addressed our risk of hurricane loss by, among other actions, purchasing reinsurance for specific states and on a countrywide basis for our personal lines property insurance in
areas most exposed to hurricanes; limiting personal homeowners new business writings in coastal areas in southern and eastern states; and not offering continuing coverage on certain policies in
coastal counties in certain states. We continue to seek appropriate returns for the risks we write. This may require further actions, similar to those already taken, in geographies where we are not
getting appropriate returns. However, we may maintain or opportunistically increase our presence in areas where we achieve adequate returns and do not materially increase our hurricane risk.   

    Earthquakes     

         Actions taken to reduce our exposure from earthquake coverage are substantially complete. These actions included purchasing reinsurance
on a countrywide basis and in the state of Kentucky; no longer offering new optional earthquake coverage in most states; removing optional earthquake coverage upon renewal in most states; and entering
into arrangements in many states to make earthquake coverage available through other insurers for new and renewal business.   

  55  

We
expect to retain approximately 30,000 PIF with earthquake coverage due to regulatory and other reasons. We also will continue to have exposure to earthquake risk on certain policies
that do not specifically exclude coverage for earthquake losses, including our auto policies, and to fires following earthquakes. Allstate policyholders in the state of California are offered coverage
through the CEA, a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage for earthquake damage. Allstate is subject to assessments from the CEA under certain
circumstances as explained in Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    Fires Following Earthquakes     

         Actions taken related to our risk of loss from fires following earthquakes include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in
California and purchasing reinsurance for Kentucky and purchasing nationwide occurrence reinsurance excluding Florida and New Jersey.   

    Wildfires     

         Actions we are taking to reduce our risk of loss from wildfires include changing homeowners underwriting requirements in certain states
and purchasing nationwide occurrence reinsurance. Catastrophe losses related to the Southern California wildfires occurred during 2009 and 2008 and totaled $76 million and $166 million,
respectively.   

    Reinsurance     

         A description of our current catastrophe reinsurance program appears in Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements and a
description of program changes as of June 1, 2011 appears in the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A.   

    DISCONTINUED LINES AND COVERAGES SEGMENT     

           Overview       The Discontinued Lines and Coverages segment includes results from insurance coverage that we no longer write and results for
certain
commercial and other businesses in run-off. Our exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is reported in this segment. We have assigned management of this
segment to a designated group of professionals with expertise in claims handling, policy coverage interpretation, exposure identification and reinsurance collection. As part of its responsibilities,
this group is also regularly engaged in policy buybacks, settlements and reinsurance assumed and ceded commutations.   

         Summarized
underwriting results for the years ended December 31 are presented in the following table.   

Underwriting losses of $31 million in 2010 related to an $18 million unfavorable reestimate of environmental reserves and a
$5 million unfavorable reestimate of asbestos reserves, partially offset by a $4 million favorable reestimate of other reserves, primarily as a result of our annual review using
established industry and actuarial best practices. The cost of administering claims settlements totaled $13 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.   

Underwriting
losses of $32 million in 2009 were primarily related to a $13 million unfavorable reestimate of environmental reserves and a $28 million unfavorable
reestimate of other reserves, partially offset by an $8 million favorable reestimate of asbestos reserves, primarily as a result of our annual review using established industry and actuarial
best practices.   

         Underwriting
losses of $25 million in 2008 primarily related to an $8 million unfavorable reestimate of asbestos reserves and a $13 million unfavorable reestimate of
other reserves as a result of our annual 2008 review, partially offset by a $16 million reduction of our allowance for future uncollectible reinsurance.   

See
the Property-Liability Claims and Claims Expense Reserves section of the MD A for a more detailed discussion.   

  56  

Discontinued Lines and Coverages outlook     

We may continue to experience asbestos and/or environmental losses in the future. These losses could be due to the
potential adverse impact of new information relating to new and additional claims or the impact of resolving unsettled claims based on unanticipated events such as litigation or legislative, judicial
and regulatory actions. Environmental losses may also increase as the result of additional funding for environmental site cleanup. Because of our annual grounds up review, we believe that our reserves
are appropriately established based on available information, technology, laws and regulations.           We continue to be encouraged that the pace of industry asbestos claim activity has slowed,
 perhaps reflecting various
state legislative and judicial actions with respect to medical criteria and increased legal scrutiny of the legitimacy of claims.    

PROPERTY-LIABILITY INVESTMENT RESULTS     

            Net investment income    decreased 10.5% or $139 million to $1.19 billion in
2010 from $1.33 billion in 2009, after decreasing 20.7% in 2009 compared to 2008. The 2010 decrease was primarily due to lower yields and duration shortening actions taken to protect the
portfolio from rising interest rates, partially offset by higher average investment balances. The 2009 decrease was primarily due to reduced portfolio yields, actions to shorten duration and maintain
additional liquidity in the portfolio, lower average investment balances and capital contributions to Allstate Life Insurance Company ("ALIC").   

         The
following table presents the average pre-tax investment yields for the year ended December 31.   

(1)     Pre-tax
yield is calculated as investment income (including dividend income in the case of equity securities)
divided by the average of the investment balances at the beginning and end of period and interim quarters.       (2)     Amortized
cost basis is used to calculate the average investment balance for fixed income securities and mortgage loans. Cost
is used for equity securities. Cost or the equity method of accounting basis is used for limited partnership interests.       (3)     Beginning
in the fourth quarter of 2008, income from limited partnerships accounted for on the equity method of accounting
("EMA LP") is reported in realized capital gains and losses and is therefore excluded from the determination of pre-tax investment yields on limited partnership
interests. EMA LP income for periods prior to the fourth quarter of 2008 is reported in net investment income and included in the determination of pre-tax investment
yields on limited partnership interests. For periods beginning with the fourth quarter of 2008, EMA LP's have been removed from the yield calculation.      (4)     To
conform to the current period presentation, prior periods have been reclassified.    

Net realized capital gains and losses    are presented in the following table.   

For a further discussion of net realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of the MD A.   

  57  

PROPERTY-LIABILITY CLAIMS AND CLAIMS EXPENSE RESERVES     

         Property-Liability underwriting results are significantly influenced by estimates of property-liability claims and claims expense
reserves. For a description of our reserve process, see Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements and for a further description of our reserving policies and the potential variability in
our reserve estimates, see the Application of Critical Accounting Estimates section of the MD A. These reserves are an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims, including IBNR
claims, as of the reporting date.   

         The
facts and circumstances leading to our reestimates of reserves relate to revisions to the development factors used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end of a
reporting period until all claims have been paid. Reestimates occur because actual losses are likely different than that predicted by the estimated development factors used in prior reserve estimates.
As of December 31, 2010, the impact of a reserve reestimation corresponding to a one percent increase or decrease in net reserves would be a decrease or increase of approximately
$113 million in net income.   

         The
table below shows total net reserves as of December 31 for Allstate brand, Encompass brand and Discontinued Lines and Coverages lines of business.   

The tables below show reserves, net of reinsurance, representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at the beginning
of years 2010, 2009 and 2008, and the effect of reestimates in each year.   

(1)     Favorable
reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.    

58  

Allstate Protection     

The tables below show Allstate Protection net reserves representing the estimated cost of outstanding claims as they were recorded at
the beginning of years 2010, 2009 and 2008, and the effect of reestimates in each year.   

Auto reserve reestimates in 2010 and 2009 were primarily due to claim severity development that was better than expected. 2010 was also impacted
by a litigation settlement. Auto reserve reestimates in 2008 were primarily the result of a $45 million reclassification of IBNR losses from standard auto to other personal lines to be
consistent with the recording of excess liability policies' premiums and losses.   

         Favorable
homeowners reserve reestimates in 2010 were primarily due to favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates, partially offset by a litigation settlement. Favorable homeowners
reserve reestimates in 2009 were primarily due to favorable reserve reestimates from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and a catastrophe related subrogation recovery. Unfavorable homeowners reserve
reestimates in 2008 were primarily due to litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane Katrina.   

         Other
personal lines reserve reestimates in 2010 and 2009 were primarily the result of loss development different than anticipated in previous estimates. Other personal lines reserve
reestimates in 2008 were primarily the result of a $45 million reclassification of IBNR losses from standard auto to other personal lines to be consistent with the recording of excess liability
policies' premiums and losses.   

  59  

Pending,
new and closed claims for Allstate Protection, for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

We believe the net loss reserves for Allstate Protection exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and
regulations.   

         The
following tables reflect the accident years to which the reestimates shown above are applicable for Allstate brand, Encompass brand and Discontinued Lines and Coverages lines of
business. Favorable reserve reestimates are shown in parentheses.   

    2010 Prior year reserve reestimates     

2009 Prior year reserve reestimates     

60  

2008 Prior year reserve reestimates     

Allstate brand    prior year reserve reestimates were $181 million favorable in 2010,
$126 million favorable in 2009 and $155 million unfavorable in 2008, respectively. In 2010, this was primarily due to favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates and severity development
that was better than expected, partially offset by litigation settlements. The increased reserves in accident years 2000   prior is due to the litigation settlements of $100 million, a
reclassification of injury reserves to older years and reserve strengthening. In 2009, this was primarily due to favorable reserve reestimates from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and a catastrophe related
subrogation recovery. The shift of reserves to older accident years is attributable to a reallocation of reserves related to employee postretirement benefits to more accident years, and a
reclassification of injury and 2008 non-injury reserves to older years. In 2008, this was primarily due to litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits
related to Hurricane Katrina.   

         These
trends are primarily responsible for revisions to loss development factors, as previously described, used to predict how losses are likely to develop from the end of a reporting
period until all claims have been paid. Because these trends cause actual losses to differ from those predicted by the estimated development factors used in prior reserve estimates, reserves are
revised as actuarial studies validate new trends based on the indications of updated development factor calculations.   

         The
impact of these reestimates on the Allstate brand underwriting income is shown in the table below.   

Encompass brand       Reserve reestimates in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were related to lower than anticipated claim settlement costs.   

The
impact of these reestimates on the Encompass brand underwriting (loss) income is shown in the table below.   

Discontinued Lines and Coverages       We conduct an annual review in the third quarter of each year to evaluate and establish asbestos,
environmental and
other discontinued lines reserves. Reserves are recorded in the reporting period in which they are determined. Using established industry and actuarial best practices and assuming no change in the
regulatory or economic environment, this detailed and comprehensive grounds up methodology determines reserves based on assessments of the characteristics of exposure (e.g. claim activity,
potential liability, jurisdiction, products versus non-products exposure) presented by policyholders.   

  61  

Reserve
reestimates for the Discontinued Lines and Coverages, as shown in the table below, were increased primarily for environmental in 2010 and other discontinued lines in both 2009
and 2008.   

Reserve additions for asbestos in 2010 totaling $5 million were primarily for products related coverage. Asbestos reserves reestimates in
2009 were $8 million favorable. Reserve additions for asbestos in 2008 totaling $8 million were primarily for products-related coverage and were a result of a continuing level of
increased claim activity being reported by excess and primary insurance policyholders with existing active claims, excess policyholders with new claims, and reestimates of liabilities for increased
assumed reinsurance cessions, as ceding companies (other insurance carriers) also experienced increased claim activity. Higher claim activity over prior estimates has also resulted in an increased
estimate for future claims reported. These trends are consistent with the trends of other carriers in the industry, which we believe are related to increased publicity and awareness of coverage,
ongoing litigation and bankruptcy actions.   

         The
reserve additions for environmental in 2010 and 2009 were primarily related to site-specific remediations where the clean-up cost estimates and responsibility
for the clean-up were more fully determined. Normal environmental claim activity resulted in essentially no change in estimated reserves for 2008. IBNR now represents 62% of total net
environmental reserves, 3 points lower than as of December 31, 2009.   

  62  

The
table below summarizes reserves and claim activity for asbestos and environmental claims before (Gross) and after (Net) the effects of reinsurance for the past three years.   

The survival ratio is calculated by taking our ending reserves divided by payments made during the year. This is a commonly used but extremely
simplistic and imprecise approach to measuring the adequacy of asbestos and environmental reserve levels. Many factors, such as mix of business, level of coverage provided and settlement procedures
have significant impacts on the amount of environmental and asbestos claims and claims expense reserves, claim payments and the resultant ratio. As payments result in corresponding reserve reductions,
survival ratios can be expected to vary over time. The 2009 net survival ratios in the table above have been adjusted to remove the claims and claims expense paid of $63 million for asbestos
and $7 million for environmental attributable to commutation activity related to three reinsurers.   

         In
both 2010 and 2009, the asbestos net 3-year survival ratio decreased due to lower reserve levels as the result of loss settlements. The environmental net
3-year survival ratio increased in both 2010 and 2009 due to lower average annual payments.   

  63  

Our
net asbestos reserves by type of exposure and total reserve additions are shown in the following table.   

During the last three years, 56 direct primary and excess policyholders reported new claims, and claims of 79 policyholders were closed,
decreasing the number of active policyholders by 23 during the period. The 23 decrease comprised 1 from 2010, (15) from 2009 and (9) from 2008. The increase of 1 from 2010 included 21
new policyholders reporting new claims and the closing of 20 policyholders' claims.   

         IBNR
net reserves decreased by $72 million. As of December 31, 2010 IBNR represented 60% of total net asbestos reserves, 2 points lower than as of December 31, 2009.
IBNR provides for reserve development of known claims and future reporting of additional unknown claims from current and new policyholders and ceding companies.   

         Pending,
new, total closed and closed without payment claims for asbestos and environmental exposures for the years ended December 31, are summarized in the following table.   

Property-Liability reinsurance ceded       For Allstate Protection, we utilize reinsurance to reduce exposure to catastrophe risk and manage
capital, and
to support the required statutory surplus and the insurance financial strength ratings of certain subsidiaries such as Castle Key Insurance Company and Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company. We
purchase significant reinsurance to manage our aggregate countrywide exposure to an acceptable level. The price and terms of reinsurance and the credit quality of the reinsurer are considered in the
purchase process, along with whether the price can be appropriately reflected in the costs that are considered in setting future rates charged to policyholders. We also participate in various
reinsurance mechanisms, including industry pools and facilities, which are backed by the financial resources of the property-liability insurance company market participants, and have historically
purchased reinsurance to mitigate long-tail liability lines, including environmental, asbestos and other discontinued lines exposures. We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for
all risks ceded to reinsurers.   

  64  

The
impacts of reinsurance on our reserve for claims and claims expense as of December 31 are summarized in the following table, net of allowances we have established for
uncollectible amounts.   

Reinsurance recoverables include an estimate of the amount of property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves that may be ceded
under the terms of the reinsurance agreements, including incurred but not reported unpaid losses. We calculate our ceded reinsurance estimate based on the terms of each applicable reinsurance
agreement, including an estimate of how IBNR losses will ultimately be ceded under the agreement. We also consider other limitations and coverage exclusions under our reinsurance agreements.
Accordingly, our estimate of reinsurance recoverables is subject to similar risks and uncertainties as our estimate of reserve for property-liability claims and claims expense. We believe the
recoverables are appropriately established; however, as our underlying reserves continue to develop, the amount ultimately recoverable may vary from amounts currently recorded. We regularly evaluate
the reinsurers and the respective amounts recoverable, and a provision for uncollectible reinsurance is recorded if needed. The establishment of reinsurance recoverables and the related allowance for
uncollectible reinsurance is also an inherently uncertain process involving estimates. Changes in estimates could result in additional changes to the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   

The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance relates to Discontinued Lines and Coverages reinsurance recoverables and was $142 million as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009.
This amount represents 17.6% and 16.2% of the related reinsurance recoverable balances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of amounts
outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing, and other relevant factors. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we may become involved in coverage
disputes with certain of our reinsurers which may ultimately result in lawsuits and arbitrations brought by or against such reinsurers to determine the parties' rights and obligations under the
various reinsurance agreements. We employ dedicated specialists to manage reinsurance collections and disputes. We also consider recent developments in commutation activity between reinsurers and
cedants, and recent trends in arbitration and litigation outcomes in disputes between cedants and reinsurers in seeking to maximize our reinsurance recoveries.   

         Adverse
developments in the insurance industry have led to a decline in the financial strength of some of our reinsurance carriers, causing amounts recoverable from them and future
claims ceded to them to be considered a higher risk. There has also been consolidation activity in the industry, which causes reinsurance risk across the industry to be concentrated among fewer
companies. In addition, over the last several years the industry has increasingly segregated asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities with dedicated
capital. Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions. We are unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectability of reinsurance
recoverables in the future.   

  65  

The largest reinsurance recoverable balances are shown in the following table as of December 31, net of the allowance we have established for uncollectible amounts.   

(1)     N/A
reflects no rating available.    

The effects of reinsurance ceded on our property-liability premiums earned and claims and claims expense for the years ended December 31
are summarized in the following table.   

For the year ended December 31, 2010, ceded property-liability premiums earned increased $36 million when compared to prior year,
primarily due to the adoption of accounting guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities, which resulted in the consolidation of two insurance company affiliates, Allstate Texas
Lloyds and Allstate County Mutual Insurance Company. For the year ended December 31, 2009, ceded property-liability premiums earned decreased $83 million when compared to prior year,
primarily as a result of favorable market conditions which were reflected in our catastrophe reinsurance pricing.   

  66  

Ceded
property-liability claims and claims expense decreased in 2010 and 2009 primarily due to amounts ceded to National Flood Insurance Program.   

For
a detailed description of the MCCA, FHCF and Lloyd's, see Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2010, other than the recoverable balances
listed above, no other amount due or estimated to be due from any single Property-Liability reinsurer was in excess of $17 million.   

         We
enter into certain intercompany insurance and reinsurance transactions for the Property-Liability operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among
various legal entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

Catastrophe reinsurance     

         Our catastrophe reinsurance program was designed, utilizing our risk management methodology, to address our exposure to catastrophes
nationwide. Our program provides reinsurance protection for catastrophes including storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, fires following earthquakes, earthquakes and wildfires
including California wildfires. These reinsurance agreements are part of our catastrophe management strategy, which is intended to provide our shareholders an acceptable return on the risks assumed in
our property business, and to reduce variability of earnings, while providing protection to our customers.   

While
our catastrophe management strategy remains substantially unchanged we have redesigned our catastrophe reinsurance program in 2011. Our new reinsurance program continues to support
our goal to have no more than a 1% likelihood of exceeding annual aggregate catastrophe losses by $2 billion, net of reinsurance, from hurricanes and earthquakes, based on modeled assumptions
and applications currently available. Since the 2006 inception of Allstate's catastrophe reinsurance program, our exposure to wind loss has been materially reduced and we have nearly eliminated our
exposure to earthquake loss. Our redesigned program for 2011 responds to these exposure changes by including coverage for multiple perils, in addition to hurricanes and earthquakes, in all but one of
the contracts comprising the program. In addition, the per occurrence structure effective June 1, 2011 facilitates the program's administration while providing greater potential with respect to
loss recovery.   

         The
new program, as described below, provides $3.25 billion of reinsurance coverage, above the retention, with reinstatements of limits. It includes a Per Occurrence Excess
Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement reinsuring our personal lines property and auto excess catastrophe losses resulting from multiple perils, including those perils currently reinsured under our
existing program, in every state other than New Jersey and Florida. For June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012, the program consists of two agreements: a Per Occurrence Excess Catastrophe
Reinsurance agreement providing coverage in six layers and a Top and Drop Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement which includes Coverage A and Coverage B.   

         The
Per Occurrence Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement provides an initial $3.25 billion per occurrence limit in excess of a $500 million retention and after the
Company has incurred $250 million in losses "otherwise recoverable." The $250 million in losses otherwise recoverable applies once each contract year to the First Layer only and losses
from multiple qualifying occurrences can apply to this $250 million threshold in excess of $500 million per occurrence. The Top and Drop Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement provides
$250 million of reinsurance limits which may be used for Coverage A, Coverage B, or a combination of both. Coverage A reinsures the "Top" of the program and provides 50% of
$500 million excess of a $3.25 billion retention. Coverage B allows the program limit to "Drop" and provides reinsurance for $250 million in limits excess of a
$750 million retention and after the Company has incurred $500 million in losses "otherwise recoverable" under the agreement. Losses from multiple qualifying occurrences, in excess of
$750 million per occurence, can apply to this $500 million threshold.   

         The
New Jersey and Florida components of the reinsurance program are designed separately from the other components of the program to address the distinct needs of our separately
capitalized legal entities in those states. New Jersey catastrophe losses will be reinsured under a newly placed per occurrence agreement and under existing agreements which expire respectively on
May 31, 2012 and 2013. The Florida component will be placed in May of 2011. Allstate Protection's separate reinsurance programs in Pennsylvania and Kentucky will continue to address exposures   

  67  

unique
to those states. A description of the catastrophe reinsurance treaties that will reinsure Allstate Protection as of June 1, 2011 follows:   

Nationwide
excluding Florida and New Jersey   

The Per Occurrence Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement reinsures personal lines property and auto excess catastrophe
losses caused by multiple perils under Six Layers of coverage as follows:    

First Layer  
     
  $250 million limit in excess of a $500 million retention and after an initial $250 million in losses "otherwise recoverable" has been satisfied, 1 reinstatement  

Second Layer  
     
  $250 million limit in excess of a $750 million retention, 1 reinstatement  

Third Layer  
     
  $500 million limit in excess of a $1 billion retention, 1 reinstatement  

Fourth Layer  
     
  $750 million limit in excess of a $1.5 billion retention, 1 reinstatement  

Fifth Layer  
     
  $1 billion limit in excess of a $2.25 billion retention, 1 reinstatement  

Sixth Layer  
     
  $500 million limit in excess of a $3.25 billion retention  

Coverage
for the First through the Fifth Layers are 95% placed. Each Layer comprises three contracts, each contract providing one third of the total limit and expiring as of May 31, 2012, 2013
and 2014, respectively. Coverage for the 6 th  Layer is 47.5% placed and, unlike the other layers, does not have a reinstatement limit. Reinsurance premium is subject to
redetermination for exposure changes at each anniversary.    

The Top and Drop Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement reinsures personal lines property and auto excess catastrophe
losses caused by multiple perils. The reinsurance limit may be used for Coverage A, Coverage B or a combination of both and is not subject to reinstatement. Coverage A of the Top
and Drop provides 47.5% of $500 million in limits in excess of a $3.25 billion retention. Coverage B provides 95% of $250 million in limits in excess of a
$750 million retention. In addition to this retention, the Company must incur $500 million in losses, "otherwise recoverable", under Coverage B during the contract year before
Coverage B attaches. Losses from multiple qualifying occurrences can apply to this $500 million threshold. Coverage B essentially is a third limit for the Second Layer of the Per
Occurrence Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement described above. For June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2012, the placement of the Top and Drop Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance agreement consists
of an annual contract and a three year term contract which in the aggregate provide 47.5% of the $500 million Coverage A limit and 95% of the $250 million Coverage B limit.
For June 1, 2012 to May 31, 2013, the three year term contract provides 12.66% of Coverage A's and 25% of Coverage B's placement and for June 1, 2013 to
May 31, 2014, it provides 6% of Coverage A's and 12.66% of Coverage B's placement. Reinsurance premium is subject to redetermination for exposure changes.    

New
Jersey   

The Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance contract reinsures personal lines property excess catastrophe losses in New Jersey
caused by multiple perils. The newly placed contract is effective June 1, 2011 to May 31, 2014 and provides 32% of $400 million of limits excess of a $150 million retention
and includes one reinstatement per contract year. In addition, the existing New Jersey agreement consisting of two contracts each providing two Layers of coverage will remain in place. The agreement
expiring May 31, 2012 provides a First Layer of 31% of $300 million of limits in excess of a $200 million retention, and a Second Layer of 26% of $200 million of limits in
excess of a $500 million retention. The agreement expiring May 31, 2013 provides a First Layer of 32% of $300 million of limits in excess of a $184 million retention and a
Second Layer of 42% of $200 million in limits excess of a $484 million retention. Each Layer includes one reinstatement per contract year. The reinsurance premium and retention are
subject to redetermination for exposure changes at each anniversary.    

Pennsylvania

The Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance Contract reinsures personal lines property losses in Pennsylvania caused by multiple
perils. This agreement will remain in effect until May 31, 2012 and provides 95% of $100 million of limits in excess of a $100 million retention with two limits being available
for the remaining term of the contract. The reinsurance premium and retention are not subject to redetermination for exposure changes.    

Kentucky

The Earthquake Excess Catastrophe Reinsurance Contract reinsures personal lines property losses in Kentucky caused by
earthquakes or fires following earthquakes. The agreement is effective June 1, 2011 for three years and provides 95% of $25 million of limits in excess of a $5 million retention.
The agreement provides three limits over its three year term subject to two limits being available in any one contract year. The reinsurance premium and retention are not subject to redetermination
for exposure changes.    
 
  68  

The
redesigned catastrophe reinsurance program for 2011 will require the cancellation of the contracts comprising the 2010 program with the exception of the Pennsylvania agreement which
has one year remaining on its three year term and the New Jersey agreement which has two years remaining on its three year term. The current Kentucky and Texas agreements will expire respectively on
May 31, 2011 and June 17, 2011. See Note 9 for further details of the existing 2010 program.   

         We
estimate that the total annualized cost of all catastrophe reinsurance programs for the year beginning June 1, 2011 will be approximately $550 million compared to
$560 million annualized cost for the year beginning June 1, 2010. The total cost of our catastrophe reinsurance programs in 2010 was $593 million compared to $626 million
in 2009. We continue to attempt to capture our reinsurance cost in premium rates as allowed by state regulatory authorities.   

    ALLSTATE FINANCIAL 2010 HIGHLIGHTS     

Net income was $58 million in 2010 compared to net loss of $483 million in 2009.           Premiums and contract charges on
underwritten products, including traditional life, interest-sensitive life and accident
and health insurance, totaled $2.03 billion in 2010, an increase of 12.2% or $221 million from $1.81 billion in 2009.           Net realized capital losses totaled
$517 million in 2010 compared to $431 million in 2009.          During 2010, amortization deceleration (credit to income) of $12 million was recorded related to our annual
comprehensive review of the DAC and DSI balances and assumptions for our interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts. This compares to DAC and DSI amortization acceleration
(charge to income) of $322 million in 2009.           Investments as of December 31, 2010 totaled $61.58 billion, reflecting a decrease in carrying value of
$634 million from $62.22 billion as of December 31, 2009. Net investment income decreased 6.9% to $2.85 billion in 2010 from $3.06 billion in 2009.          Contractholder funds as of December 31, 2010 totaled $48.19 billion, reflecting a decrease of
$4.39 billion from $52.58 billion as of December 31, 2009.    

ALLSTATE FINANCIAL SEGMENT     

          Overview and strategy       The Allstate Financial segment is a major provider of life insurance, retirement and investment products, and voluntary
accident and health insurance. We serve our customers through Allstate exclusive agencies, workplace distribution and non-proprietary distribution channels. Allstate Financial's strategic
vision is to reinvent protection and retirement for the consumer and its purpose is to create financial value on a standalone basis and to add strategic value to the organization.   

         To
fulfill its purpose, Allstate Financial's primary objectives are to deepen relationships with Allstate customers by adding financial services to their suite of products with Allstate,
dramatically expand Allstate Benefits (our workplace distribution business) and improve profitability by decreasing earnings volatility, increasing our returns, and improving our capital position.
Allstate Financial brings value to The Allstate Corporation (the "Corporation") in three principal ways: through profitable growth of Allstate Financial, improving the economics of the Protection
business through increased customer loyalty and renewal rates by cross selling Allstate Financial products to existing customers, and by bringing new customers to Allstate. We continue to shift our
mix of products in force by decreasing spread based products, principally fixed annuities and institutional products, and through growth of underwritten products having mortality or morbidity risk,
principally life insurance and accident and health products. In addition to focusing on higher return markets, products, and distribution channels, Allstate Financial continues to emphasize capital
efficiency and enterprise risk and return management strategies and actions.   

         Allstate
Financial's strategy provides a platform to profitably grow its business. Based upon Allstate's strong financial position and brand, we have a unique opportunity to
cross-sell to our customers. Through our Allstate exclusive agencies we will leverage the trusted customer relationships to serve those who are looking for assistance in meeting their
protection and retirement needs by providing them with the information, products and services that they need. Our employer relationships through Allstate Benefits also afford opportunities to offer
additional Allstate products.   

         Our
products include interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; fixed annuities such as deferred and immediate annuities; voluntary accident and health insurance; and
funding agreements backing medium-term notes, which we offer on an opportunistic basis. Banking products and services have been offered to customers through the Allstate Bank. Our products
are sold through multiple distribution channels including Allstate exclusive agencies, which include exclusive financial specialists, independent agents (including master brokerage agencies and
workplace enrolling agents), and specialized structured settlement brokers. Our institutional product line consists primarily of funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back
medium-term notes issued to institutional and   

  69  

individual
investors. On February 8, 2011, we announced that we had reached an agreement to sell substantially all of the deposits of Allstate Bank to Discover Bank and our plans to enter into
a multi-year distribution and marketing agreement whereby Discover Bank will provide banking products and services to Allstate customers in the future. Allstate Financial does not intend
to originate banking products or services after the transaction closes, which is expected to be by mid-year 2011, pending regulatory approval.   

    Allstate Financial outlook     

We plan to continue to increase sales of underwritten insurance products and tailor the focus of product offerings to
better serve the needs of everyday Americans.           Our growth initiatives will be focused on increasing the number of customers served through our proprietary and Allstate
Benefits (workplace distribution) channels.           We will continue to focus on improving returns and reducing our concentration in spread based products resulting in net
reductions in contractholder funds obligations.           We expect lower investment spread due to reduced contractholder funds and the continuing low interest rate environment. As
interest rates remain below the aggregate portfolio yield, the amount by which the low interest rate environment will reduce our investment spread is contingent on our ability to maintain the
portfolio yield and lower interest crediting rates on spread based products, which could be limited by market conditions, regulatory minimum rates or contractual minimum rate guarantees, and may not
match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. Also, a significant amount of our invested assets are used to support our capital and non-spread based products, which do not
provide this offsetting opportunity.    

           Summary analysis       Summarized financial data for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

Net income    in 2010 was $58 million compared to a net loss of $483 million in 2009.
The favorable change of $541 million was primarily due to lower amortization of DAC, decreased interest credited to contractholder funds and higher premiums and contract charges, partially
offset by lower net investment income, higher contract benefits and increased net realized capital losses.   

Net
loss was $483 million in 2009 compared to $1.72 billion in 2008. The improvement of $1.24 billion in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower net
realized capital losses and, to a lesser extent, decreased interest credited to contractholder funds and operating costs and expenses, partially offset by lower net investment income, higher
amortization of DAC and a $142 million increase in the valuation allowance relating to the deferred tax asset on capital losses that was recorded in the first quarter of 2009. This valuation
allowance was released in connection with our adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance on April 1, 2009; however, the release was recorded as an increase to retained income and therefore did
not reverse the amount recorded in income tax expense.   

  70  

Analysis of revenues       Total revenues decreased 1.9% or $87 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due to lower net investment income and higher
net
realized capital losses, partially offset by higher premiums and contract charges. Total revenues increased 78.0% or $2.01 billion in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to a
$2.70 billion decrease in net realized capital losses, partially offset by a $747 million decline in net investment income.   

Life and annuity premiums and contract charges       Premiums represent revenues generated from traditional life insurance, immediate annuities with
life
contingencies, and accident and health insurance products that have significant mortality or morbidity risk. Contract charges are revenues generated from interest-sensitive and variable life insurance
and fixed annuities for which deposits are classified as contractholder funds or separate account liabilities. Contract charges are assessed against the contractholder account values for maintenance,
administration, cost of insurance and surrender prior to contractually specified dates.   

         The
following table summarizes life and annuity premiums and contract charges by product for the years ended December 31.   

(1)     Total
contract charges include contract charges related to the cost of insurance totaling $637 million, $616 million and
$595 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.    

Total premiums and contract charges increased 10.7% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher sales of accident and health insurance
through Allstate Benefits, with a significant portion of the increase resulting from sales to employees of one large company, and higher contract charges on interest-sensitive life insurance products
resulting from a shift in the mix of policies in force to contracts with higher cost of insurance rates and policy administration fees. In addition, increased traditional life insurance premiums in
2010 were primarily due to lower reinsurance premiums resulting from higher retention, partially offset by lower renewal premiums and decreased sales.   

Total
premiums and contract charges increased 3.3% in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher sales of accident and health insurance through Allstate Benefits and higher contract charges on
interest-sensitive life insurance products resulting from increases in certain policy administration fees, partially offset by lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies.   

            Contractholder funds    represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of individual and institutional products, such as
interest-sensitive life insurance, fixed annuities, funding agreements and bank deposits. The balance of contractholder funds is equal to the cumulative deposits received and interest credited to the
contractholder less   

  71  

cumulative
contract maturities, benefits, surrenders, withdrawals and contract charges for mortality or administrative expenses. The following table shows the changes in contractholder funds for the
years ended December 31.   

(1)     The
table above illustrates the changes in contractholder funds, which are presented gross of reinsurance recoverables on the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position. The table above is intended to supplement our discussion and analysis of revenues, which are presented net of reinsurance on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations. As a result, the net change in contractholder funds associated with products reinsured to third parties is reflected as a component of the other adjustments line.    

Contractholder funds decreased 8.3%, 10.0% and 5.8% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Average contractholder funds decreased 9.2% in 2010
compared to 2009 and 7.8% in 2009 compared to 2008.   

         Contractholder
deposits decreased 24.9% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower deposits on fixed annuities. Deposits on fixed annuities decreased 52.5% in 2010 compared to 2009
due to our strategic decision to discontinue distributing fixed annuities through banks and broker-dealers and our goal to reduce our concentration in spread based products and improve returns on new
business.   

         Contractholder
deposits decreased 56.0% in 2009 compared to 2008 because there were no issuances of institutional products in 2009 compared to $4.16 billion in 2008 and due to
lower deposits on fixed annuities in 2009. Sales of our institutional products vary from period to period based on management's assessment of market conditions, investor demand and operational
priorities such as our focus beginning in 2009 on reducing our concentration in spread based products. Deposits on fixed annuities decreased 48.3% in 2009 compared to 2008 due to pricing actions to
improve returns on new business and reduce our concentration in spread based products.   

Maturities
and retirements of institutional products decreased 61.6% to $1.83 billion in 2010 from $4.77 billion in 2009. During 2009, we retired all of our remaining
outstanding extendible institutional market obligations totaling $1.45 billion. In addition, 2009 included the redemption of $1.39 billion of institutional product liabilities in
conjunction with cash tender offers.   

         Maturities
and retirements of institutional products decreased 44.5% to $4.77 billion in 2009 from $8.60 billion in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower
retirements of extendible institutional market obligations in 2009 compared to 2008, partially offset by the redemption in 2009 of institutional product liabilities in accordance with the cash tender
offers.   

         Surrenders
and partial withdrawals on deferred fixed annuities, interest-sensitive life insurance products and Allstate Bank products (including maturities of certificates of deposit)
increased 0.6% to $5.20 billion in 2010 from $5.17 billion in 2009, and decreased 2.7% in 2009 from $5.31 billion in 2008. In 2010, the increase was primarily due to higher
surrenders and partial withdrawals on fixed annuities, partially offset by lower surrenders and partial withdrawals on Allstate Bank products. In 2009, the decrease was due to lower surrenders and
partial withdrawals on traditional fixed annuities, partially offset by higher surrenders and partial withdrawals on market value adjusted   

  72  

annuities
and interest-sensitive life insurance. The surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred fixed annuities, interest-sensitive life insurance products and Allstate Bank products, based on
the beginning of year contractholder funds, was 12.2% in 2010 compared to 11.8% in 2009 and 12.2% in 2008.   

            Net investment income    decreased 6.9% or $211 million to $2.85 billion in 2010 from $3.06 billion in 2009 primarily
due to lower yields, reduced average investment balances and risk reduction actions.   

Net
investment income decreased 19.6% or $747 million to $3.06 billion in 2009 from $3.81 billion in 2008. The decline was primarily due to lower yields, actions to
shorten duration and maintain additional liquidity in the portfolio, along with reduced average investment balances resulting primarily from reduced contractholder obligations.   

            Net realized capital gains and losses    are presented in the following table for the years ended December 31.   

For further discussion of realized capital gains and losses, see the Investments section of the MD A.   

           Analysis of costs and expenses       Total costs and expenses decreased 13.9% or $719 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower
amortization of DAC and interest credited to contractholder funds, partially offset by higher contract benefits. Total costs and expenses decreased 1.6% or $85 million in 2009 compared to 2008
primarily due to lower interest credited to contractholder funds and operating costs and expenses, partially offset by higher amortization of DAC and restructuring and related charges.   

            Life and annuity contract benefits    increased 12.2% or $198 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher contract
benefits on accident and health insurance and interest-sensitive life insurance products, partially offset by lower contract benefits on immediate annuities with life contingencies. Higher contract
benefits on accident and health insurance were proportionate to growth in premiums. The increase in contract benefits on interest-sensitive life insurance was primarily due to the reestimation of
reserves for certain secondary guarantees on universal life insurance policies and higher mortality experience resulting from an increase in average claim size and higher incidence of claims. Lower
contract benefits on immediate annuities with life contingencies were due to the reestimation of reserves for benefits payable to certain annuitants to reflect current contractholder information.   

         The
reserve reestimations utilized more refined policy level information and assumptions in the second quarter of 2010. The increase in reserves for certain secondary guarantees on
universal life insurance policies resulted in a charge to contract benefits of $68 million and a related reduction in amortization of DAC of $50 million. The decrease in reserves for
immediate annuities resulted in a credit to contract benefits of $26 million. The net impact was an increase to income of $8 million, pre-tax.   

         Life
and annuity contract benefits increased 0.3% or $5 million in 2009 compared to 2008 due to higher contract benefits on life insurance products and accident and health
insurance business, partially offset by lower contract benefits on annuities. The increase in contract benefits on life insurance products was primarily due to higher mortality experience on
interest-sensitive life insurance products resulting from an increase in claim experience and policy growth while higher contract benefits on accident and health insurance business was proportionate
to growth in premiums. The decrease in contract benefits for annuities was due to improved mortality experience and the impact of lower sales of immediate annuities with life contingencies.   

         We
analyze our mortality and morbidity results using the difference between premiums and contract charges earned for the cost of insurance and life and annuity contract benefits
excluding the portion related to the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies ("benefit spread"). This implied interest totaled $549 million, $558 million and
$552 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

  73  

The benefit spread by product group is disclosed in the following table for the years ended December 31.   

Benefit spread decreased 3.2% or $17 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease was primarily due to higher mortality experience on
interest-sensitive life insurance, reestimations of reserves that increased contract benefits for interest-sensitive life insurance and decreased contract benefits for immediate annuities, partially
offset by growth in accident and health insurance sold through Allstate Benefits.   

         Benefit
spread increased 10.0% or $48 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to improved mortality experience on annuities and higher premiums on accident and health
insurance business sold through Allstate Benefits.   

            Interest credited to contractholder funds    decreased 15.0% or $319 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower average
contractholder funds and management actions to reduce interest crediting rates on deferred fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life insurance. In addition, the decline in 2010 also reflects lower
amortization of DSI.   

         Amortization
of DSI in 2010 was $27 million compared to $129 million in 2009. The decline in amortization of DSI in 2010 was primarily due to a $46 million decrease
in amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses and a $38 million reduction in amortization acceleration for changes in assumptions.   

         Interest
credited to contractholder funds decreased 11.8% or $285 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to lower average contractholder funds and, to a lesser extent,
decreased weighted average interest crediting rates
on deferred fixed annuities and institutional products, partially offset by higher amortization of DSI. Amortization of DSI in 2009 and 2008 was $129 million and $53 million,
respectively. The increase primarily relates to an unfavorable change in amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses of $132 million, partially offset by a $32 million
decline in amortization acceleration due to changes in assumptions, which in 2009 and 2008 increased interest credited to contractholder funds by $38 million and $70 million,
respectively.   

         In
order to analyze the impact of net investment income and interest credited to contractholders on net income, we monitor the difference between net investment income and the sum of
interest credited to contractholder funds and the implied interest on immediate annuities with life contingencies, which is included as a component of life and annuity contract benefits on the
Consolidated Statements of Operations ("investment spread").   

         The
investment spread by product group is shown in the following table for the years ended December 31.   

Investment spread increased 30.8% or $117 million in 2010 compared to 2009 as lower net investment income was more than offset by decreased
interest credited to contractholder funds, which includes lower amortization of DSI. Excluding amortization of DSI, investment spread increased 2.9% or $15 million in 2010 compared to 2009.   

Investment
spread declined 55.2% or $468 million in 2009 compared to 2008. These declines reflect lower net investment income, partially offset by decreased interest credited to
contractholder funds.   

  74  

To
further analyze investment spreads, the following table summarizes the weighted average investment yield on assets supporting product liabilities and capital, interest crediting rates
and investment spreads for 2010, 2009 and 2008.   

The following table summarizes our product liabilities as of December 31 and indicates the account value of those contracts and policies in
which an investment spread is generated.   

The following table summarizes the weighted average guaranteed crediting rates and weighted average current crediting rates for certain fixed
annuities and interest-sensitive life contracts where management has the ability to change the crediting rate, subject to a contractual minimum. Other products, including equity-indexed, variable and
immediate annuities, equity-indexed and variable life, institutional products and Allstate Bank products totaling $13.74 billion of contractholder funds, have been excluded from the analysis
because management does not have the ability to change the crediting rate or the minimum crediting rate is not considering meaningful in this context.   

(1)     These
contracts include interest rate guarantee periods which are typically 5 or 6 years.    

75  

Amortization of DAC    decreased 63.1% or $609 million in 2010 compared to 2009 and increased
37.1% or $261 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The components of amortization of DAC are summarized in the following table for the years ended December 31.   

The decrease of $609 million in 2010 was primarily due to a favorable change in amortization acceleration/deceleration for changes in
assumptions, lower amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses, a decreased amortization rate on fixed annuities and lower amortization from decreased benefit spread on
interest-sensitive life insurance due to the reestimation of reserves. The increase of $261 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to an unfavorable change in amortization relating
to realized capital gains and losses, partially offset by the absence of additional amortization recorded in 2008 in connection with a premium deficiency assessment, lower amortization resulting from
decreased investment spread on deferred fixed annuities, and a decline in amortization acceleration due to changes in assumptions.   

         The
impact of realized capital gains and losses on amortization of DAC is dependent upon the relationship between the assets that give rise to the gain or loss and the product liability
supported by the assets. Fluctuations result from changes in the impact of realized capital gains and losses on actual and expected gross profits. In 2010, DAC amortization relating to realized
capital gains and losses resulted primarily from realized capital gains on derivatives and sales of fixed income securities. In 2009, DAC amortization relating to realized capital gains and losses
resulted primarily from realized capital gains on derivatives. Additionally, DAC amortization in 2010 and 2009 reflects our decision in the second half of 2009 not to recapitalize DAC for credit or
derivative losses on investments supporting certain fixed annuities following concerns that an increase in the level of expected realized capital losses may reduce EGP and adversely impact the product
DAC recoverability. In 2008, DAC accretion resulted primarily from realized capital losses on derivatives and other-than-temporary impairment losses.   

         Our
annual comprehensive review of the profitability of our products to determine DAC balances for our interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts covers
assumptions for investment returns, including capital gains and losses, interest crediting rates to policyholders, the effect of any hedges, persistency, mortality and expenses in all product lines.
In the first quarter of 2010, the review resulted in a deceleration of DAC amortization (credit to income) of $12 million. Amortization deceleration of $45 million related to variable
life insurance and was primarily due to appreciation in the underlying separate account valuations. Amortization acceleration of $32 million related to interest-sensitive life insurance and was
primarily due to an increase in projected realized capital losses and lower projected renewal premium (which is also expected to reduce persistency), partially offset by lower expenses.   

         In
2009, our annual comprehensive review resulted in the acceleration of DAC amortization (charge to income) of $277 million. $289 million related to fixed annuities, of
which $210 million was attributable to market value adjusted annuities, and $18 million related to variable life insurance. Partially offsetting these amounts was amortization
deceleration (credit to income) for interest-sensitive life insurance of $30 million. The principal assumption impacting fixed annuity amortization acceleration was an increase in the level of
expected realized capital losses in 2009 and 2010. For interest-sensitive life insurance, the amortization deceleration was due to a favorable change in our mortality assumptions, partially offset by
increased expected capital losses.   

         In
2008, DAC amortization acceleration for changes in assumptions recorded in connection with comprehensive reviews of the DAC balances resulted in an increase to amortization of DAC of
$327 million. The principle assumption impacting the amortization acceleration in 2008 was the level of realized capital losses impacting actual gross profits in 2008 and the impact of realized
capital losses on EGP in 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2008, our assumptions for EGP were impacted by a view of higher impairments in our investment portfolio.   

  76  

During
2008, indicators emerged that suggested a study of mortality experience for our immediate annuities with life contingences was warranted. At the same time, the underlying
profitability of the traditional life insurance business deteriorated due to lower investment returns and growth. For traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, an
aggregate premium deficiency of $336 million resulted primarily from the experience study indicating that the annuitants on certain life contingent contracts are projected to live longer than
we anticipated when the contracts were issued and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio yield. The deficiency was recorded through a reduction in DAC. There was no
similar charge to income recorded in 2010 or 2009.   

         The
changes in the DAC asset are detailed in the following table.   

(1)     The
adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance resulted in an adjustment to DAC to reverse previously recorded DAC accretion related to realized
capital losses that were reclassified to other comprehensive income upon adoption on April 1, 2009. The adjustment was recorded as a reduction of the DAC balance and retained income.      (2)
     The
adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance resulted in an adjustment to DAC due to the change in unrealized capital gains and losses that
occurred upon adoption on April 1, 2009 when previously recorded realized capital losses were reclassified to other comprehensive income. The adjustment was recorded as an increase of the DAC
balance and unrealized capital gains and losses.       (3)     Included
as a component of amortization of DAC on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.       (4)     Represents
the change in the DAC adjustment for unrealized capital gains and losses. The DAC adjustment balance was $75 million and
$870 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC would increase or decrease if the unrealized gains and losses in
the respective product portfolios were realized. Recapitalization of DAC is limited to the originally deferred policy acquisition costs plus interest.    

Operating costs and expenses    increased 9.1% or $39 million in 2010 compared to 2009 and
decreased 17.3% or $90 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The following table summarizes operating costs and expenses.   

Non-deferrable acquisition costs increased 7.7% or $12 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to higher
non-deferrable commissions related to accident and health insurance business sold through Allstate Benefits. Other operating costs and expenses increased 9.9% or $27 million in 2010
compared to 2009 primarily due to higher product development, marketing and technology costs, increased litigation expenses, lower reinsurance expense allowances resulting from higher retention and
increases in the net cost of employee benefits. In 2010, these increased costs were partially offset by our expense reduction actions, which resulted in lower employee, professional services and sales
support expenses.   

  77  

Non-deferrable
acquisition costs increased 2.0% or $3 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to higher non-deferrable commissions related to
accident and health insurance business sold through Allstate Benefits. Other operating costs and expenses decreased 25.3% or $93 million in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to our expense
reduction actions, which resulted in lower employee, professional services and sales support expenses.   

         During
2009, restructuring and related charges of $25 million were recorded in connection with our previously announced plan to improve efficiency and narrow our focus of product
offerings. In accordance with this plan, among other actions, we eliminated approximately 1,000 workforce positions relative to December 31, 2008 levels
through a combination of attrition, position elimination and outsourcing. This reduction reflected approximately 30% of Allstate Financial's work force at the time the plan was initiated. Through our
actions completed as of December 31, 2010, we anticipate that we will exceed our targeted annual savings of $90 million beginning in 2011.   

            Income tax expense    of $8 million was recognized for 2010 compared to income tax benefits of $82 million and
$954 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Income tax benefit for 2009 included expense of $142 million attributable to an increase in the valuation allowance relating to the deferred
tax asset on capital losses recorded in the first quarter of 2009. This valuation allowance was released in connection with the adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance on April 1, 2009;
however, the release was recorded as an increase to retained income and therefore did not reverse the amount recorded in income tax benefit.   

Reinsurance ceded       We enter into reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated reinsurers to limit our risk of mortality and morbidity losses. In
addition,
Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. We retain primary liability as a direct insurer for all risks ceded to reinsurers. As of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, 45% and 47%, respectively, of our face amount of life insurance in force was reinsured. Additionally, we ceded substantially all of the risk associated with our
variable annuity business and we cede 100% of the morbidity risk on substantially all of our long-term care contracts.   

         Our
reinsurance recoverables, summarized by reinsurer as of December 31, are shown in the following table.   

(1)     The
reinsurance recoverable on paid and unpaid benefits related to the Scottish Re Group as of December 31, 2010 comprised
$73 million related to Scottish Re Life Corporation and $63 million related to Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. The reinsurance recoverable on paid and unpaid benefits related to the
Scottish Re Group as of December 31, 2009 comprised $74 million related to Scottish Re Life Corporation and $63 million related to Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc.      (2)     As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the other category includes $106 million and $100 million, respectively, of
recoverables due from reinsurers with an investment grade credit rating from Standard   Poor's ("S P").       (3)     N/A
reflects no rating available.    

Certain of our reinsurers experienced rating downgrades in 2010 by S P, including Security Life of Denver and Manulife Insurance Company. We
continuously monitor the creditworthiness of reinsurers in order to determine our risk   

  78  

of
recoverability on an individual and aggregate basis, and a provision for uncollectible reinsurance is recorded if needed. No amounts have been deemed unrecoverable in the three-years ended
December 31, 2010.   

         We
enter into certain intercompany reinsurance transactions for the Allstate Financial operations in order to maintain underwriting control and manage insurance risk among various legal
entities. These reinsurance agreements have been approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   

INVESTMENTS 2010 HIGHLIGHTS     

Investments as of December 31, 2010 totaled $100.48 billion, an increase of 0.7% from $99.83 billion
as of December 31, 2009.           Unrealized net capital gains totaled $1.39 billion as of December 31, 2010, improving from unrealized net
capital losses of $2.32 billion as of December 31, 2009.           As of December 31, 2010, the fair value for our below investment grade fixed income securities with gross
unrealized losses totaled $3.29 billion compared to $3.51 billion as of December 31, 2009. The gross unrealized losses for these securities totaled $1.08 billion as of
December 31, 2010, an improvement of 40.4% from $1.81 billion as of December 31, 2009.           Net investment income was $4.10 billion in 2010, a decrease of 7.7% from
$4.44 billion in 2009.          Net realized capital losses were $827 million in 2010 compared to net realized capital losses of
$583 million in 2009.           Derivative net realized capital losses totaled $601 million in 2010 compared to net realized capital gains of
$205 million in 2009. Derivative net realized capital losses in 2010 resulted primarily from our risk management actions.           During 2010, our fixed income and mortgage loan portfolio
generated $10.19 billion of cash flows from interest and
maturities.    

INVESTMENTS     

          Overview and strategy       The return on our investment portfolios is an important component of our financial results. Investment portfolios are
segmented
between the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other operations. While taking into consideration the investment portfolio in aggregate, we manage the underlying portfolios based
upon the nature of each respective business and its corresponding liability structure.   

         We
employ a strategic asset allocation approach which uses models that consider the nature of the liabilities and risk tolerances, as well as the risk and return parameters of the
various asset classes in which we invest. This asset allocation is informed by our global economic and market outlook, as well as other inputs and constraints, including diversification effects,
duration, liquidity and capital considerations. Within the ranges set by the strategic asset allocation model, tactical investment decisions are made in consideration of prevailing market conditions.
We continue to manage risks associated with interest rates, credit and credit spreads, equity markets, and real estate and municipal bonds.   

         The
Property-Liability portfolio's investment strategy emphasizes protection of principal and consistent income generation, within a total return framework. This approach, which has
produced competitive returns over the long term, is designed to ensure financial strength and stability for paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth.   

The
Allstate Financial portfolio's investment strategy focuses on the total return of assets needed to support the underlying liabilities, asset-liability management and achieving an
appropriate return on capital.   

         The
Corporate and Other portfolio's investment strategy balances the pursuit of competitive returns with the unique liquidity needs of the portfolio in relation to the overall corporate
capital structure. The portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, liquid fixed income and short-term securities with additional investments in less liquid holdings in order to
enhance overall returns.   

    Risk mitigation     

         We continue to focus our strategic risk mitigation efforts towards managing interest rate, credit and credit spreads, equity and real
estate and municipal bond investment risks, while our return optimization efforts focus on investing in new opportunities to generate income and capital appreciation. As a result, during 2010 we took
the following actions:   

Reduced our municipal bond exposure by 25.3% or $5.48 billion of amortized cost primarily through targeted
dispositions, prepayments and scheduled maturities.    
 
  79  

Reduced our commercial real estate exposure by 18.7% or $2.31 billion of amortized cost primarily through targeted
dispositions and principal repayments from borrowers.           Maintained hedges to protect our portfolio, primarily against interest rate spikes and equity price declines, which
performed consistently with our positions in relation to the movement in the underlying market indices. The resulting realized capital losses from our interest rate and equity hedges were offset by
the increase in fair value of our fixed income and equity securities, which is reflected in other comprehensive income ("OCI").    

Investments outlook     

         For 2011, we expect the U.S. and other developed economies to recover at a moderate pace, with greater growth in developing and
emerging countries. These increasing growth expectations should move equity prices higher. Expected tightening of monetary policy will drive interest rates moderately higher. With expected growth in
the economy, credit markets should continue to improve, but challenges will remain in certain segments such as municipal bonds. As a result, we plan to focus on the following
priorities:   

Optimizing our allocation of assets to align with changes in Allstate Financial's liabilities.           Continuing to explore global
investments in areas of emerging opportunity with higher prospects for growth.          Managing the impact of gradually rising rates on our fixed income portfolio.           Continuing to favor credit risk, while managing our municipal exposure.

As
a result of these actions and market conditions:   

Invested assets and income are expected to decline in line with reductions in contractholder obligations for the Allstate
Financial segment.           Our risk and return optimization actions will allow us to maintain portfolio yields comparable to 2010.    

Portfolio composition       The composition of the investment portfolios as of December 31, 2010 is presented in the table below. Also see
Notes 2 and 4 of the consolidated financial statements for investment accounting policies and additional information.   

(1)     Fixed
income securities are carried at fair value. Amortized cost basis for these securities was $27.38 billion, $49.19 billion
and $2.22 billion for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other, respectively.       (2)     Equity
securities are carried at fair value. Cost basis for these securities was $4.04 billion and $185 million for
Property-Liability and Allstate Financial, respectively.       (3)     We
have commitments to invest in additional limited partnership interests totaling $740 million and $731 million for
Property-Liability and Allstate Financial, respectively.       (4)     Short-term
investments are carried at fair value. Amortized cost basis for these investments was $430 million,
$1.30 billion and $1.55 billion for Property-Liability, Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other, respectively.       (5)     Balances
reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments.    

Total investments increased to $100.48 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $99.83 billion as of December 31, 2009,
primarily due to higher valuations for fixed income securities, partially offset by net reductions in contractholder obligations. Valuations of fixed income securities are typically driven by a
combination of changes in relevant risk-free interest rates and credit spreads over the period. Risk-free interest rates are typically defined as the yield on U.S. Treasury
securities, whereas credit spread is the additional yield on fixed income securities above the risk-free rate that market participants require to compensate them for assuming credit,
liquidity and/or prepayment risks. The increase in valuation of fixed income securities during 2010 was mainly due to declining risk-free interest rates and tightening of credit spreads in
certain sectors.   

  80  

The Property-Liability investment portfolio increased to $35.05 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $34.53 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to
higher valuations for equity and fixed income securities and positive operating cash flows, partially offset by dividends paid by Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC") to its parent, The Allstate
Corporation.   

         The
Allstate Financial investment portfolio decreased to $61.58 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $62.22 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to
net reductions in contractholder obligations of $4.39 billion, partially offset by higher valuations for fixed income securities.   

The
Corporate and Other investment portfolio increased to $3.85 billion as of December 31, 2010, from $3.09 billion as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to
dividends of $1.30 billion paid by AIC to the Corporation and higher valuations for fixed income securities, partially offset by dividends paid to shareholders, interest paid on debt and share
repurchases.   

            Fixed income securities    by type are listed in the table below.   

As
of December 31, 2010, 91.6% of the consolidated fixed income securities portfolio was rated investment grade, which is defined as a security having a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or
Baa from Moody's, a rating of AAA, AA, A or BBB from S P, Fitch, Dominion, or Realpoint, a rating of aaa, aa, a, or bbb from A.M. Best, or a comparable internal rating if an externally provided
rating is not available.   

  81  

The
following table summarizes the fair value and unrealized net capital gains and losses for fixed income securities by credit rating as of December 31, 2010.   

Municipal bonds   , including tax exempt, taxable and ARS securities, totaled $15.93 billion
as of December 31, 2010 with an unrealized net capital loss of $267 million.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, 45.8% or $7.29 billion of our municipal bond portfolio is insured by nine bond insurers and 45.7% of these securities have a credit rating of Aaa
or Aa. 47.8% of our insured municipal bond portfolio was insured by National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation, Inc., 22.7% by Ambac Assurance Corporation, 21.7% by Assured Guaranty
Municipal Corporation and 3.3% by Assured Guaranty Ltd. Given the effects of the economic crisis on bond insurers, the value inherent in this insurance has declined. We believe the fair value
of our insured municipal bond   

  82  

portfolio
substantially reflects the decline in the value of the insurance, and further related valuation declines, if any, are not expected to be material. Our practice for acquiring and monitoring
municipal bonds is predominantly based on the underlying credit quality of the primary obligor. We currently expect to receive all contractual cash flows from the primary obligor and are not relying
on bond insurers for payments.   

         Included
in our municipal bond holdings as of December 31, 2010 are $925 million of municipal securities which are not rated by third party credit rating agencies, but are
rated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") and are also internally rated. These holdings include $490 million of below investment grade municipal bonds, most of which
were purchased to provide the opportunity to achieve incremental returns. Our initial investment decisions and ongoing monitoring procedures for these securities are based on a thorough
due diligence process which includes, but is not limited to, an assessment of the credit quality, sector, structure, and liquidity risks of each issue.   

         ARS
totaled $1.27 billion with an unrealized net capital loss of $107 million as of December 31, 2010. Our holdings primarily have a credit rating of Aaa.
$1.23 billion of our holdings are collateralized by pools of student loans for which at least 85% of the collateral was insured by the U.S. Department of Education at the time we purchased the
security. As of December 31, 2010, $840 million of our ARS backed by student loans was 100% insured by the U.S. Department of Education, $223 million was 90% to 99% insured and
$118 million was 80% to 89% insured. All of our student loan ARS holdings are experiencing failed auctions and we receive the failed auction rate or, for those which contain maximum reset rate
formulas, we receive the contractual maximum rate. We anticipate that failed auctions may persist and most of our holdings will continue to pay the failed auction rate or, for those that contain
maximum rate reset formulas, the maximum rate. Auctions continue to be conducted as scheduled for each of the securities.   

            Corporate bonds   , including publicly traded and privately placed, totaled $37.66 billion as of December 31, 2010 with an
unrealized net capital gain of $1.40 billion. Privately placed securities primarily consist of corporate issued senior debt securities that are in unregistered form or are directly negotiated
with the borrower. 53.7% of the privately placed corporate securities in our portfolio are rated by an independent rating agency and substantially all are rated by the NAIC.   

Our
portfolio of privately placed securities is broadly diversified by issuer, industry sector and country. The portfolio is made up of 576 issuers. Privately placed corporate
obligations contain structural security features such as financial covenants and call protections that provide investors greater protection against credit deterioration, reinvestment risk or
fluctuations in interest rates than those typically found in publicly registered debt securities. Additionally, investments in these securities are made after extensive due diligence of the issuer,
typically including direct discussions with senior management and on-site visits to company facilities. Ongoing monitoring includes direct periodic dialog with senior management of the
issuer and continuous monitoring of operating performance and financial position. Every issue not rated by an independent rating agency is internally rated with a formal rating affirmation at least
once a year.   

            Foreign government    securities totaled $3.16 billion, with 100% rated investment grade, as of December 31, 2010. Of these
securities, 44.1% are backed by the U.S. government, 18.7% are in Canadian governmental securities held in our Canadian subsidiary and the remaining 37.2% are highly diversified in other foreign
governments.   

            RMBS, CMBS and ABS    are structured securities that are primarily collateralized by residential and commercial real estate loans and other
consumer or corporate borrowings. The cash flows from the underlying collateral paid to the securitization trust are generally applied in a pre-determined order and are designed so that
each security issued by the trust, typically referred to as a "class", qualifies for a specific original rating. For example, the "senior" portion or "top" of the capital structure, or rating class,
which would originally qualify for a rating of Aaa typically has priority in receiving principal repayments on the underlying collateral and retains this priority until the class is paid in full. In a
sequential structure, underlying collateral principal repayments are directed to the most senior rated Aaa class in the structure until paid in full, after which principal repayments are directed to
the next most senior Aaa class in the structure until it is paid in full. Senior Aaa classes generally share any losses from the underlying collateral on a pro-rata basis after losses are
absorbed by classes with lower original ratings. The payment priority and class subordination included in these securities serves as credit enhancement for holders of the senior or top portions of the
structures. These securities continue to retain the payment priority features that existed at the origination of the securitization trust. Other forms of credit enhancement may include structural
features embedded in the securitization trust, such as overcollateralization, excess spread and bond insurance. The underlying collateral can have fixed interest rates,
variable interest rates (such as adjustable rate mortgages ("ARM")) or may contain features of both fixed and variable rate mortgages.   

            RMBS   , including U.S. Agency, Prime, Alt-A and Subprime, totaled $7.99 billion, with 78.2% rated investment grade, as of
December 31, 2010. The RMBS portfolio is subject to interest rate risk, but unlike other fixed income securities, is   

  83  

additionally
subject to significant prepayment risk from the underlying residential mortgage loans. The credit risk associated with our RMBS portfolio is mitigated due to the fact that 59.2% of the
portfolio consists of securities that were issued by or have underlying collateral guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. The unrealized net capital loss of $516 million as of
December 31, 2010 was the result of wider credit spreads than at initial purchase on the non-U.S. Agency portion of our RMBS portfolio, largely due to higher risk premiums caused by
macroeconomic conditions and credit market deterioration, including the impact of lower real estate valuations, which began to show signs of stabilization in certain geographic areas in 2010. The
following table shows our RMBS portfolio as of December 31, 2010 based upon vintage year of the issuance of the securities.   

Prime are collateralized by residential mortgage loans issued to prime borrowers. As of December 31, 2010, $913 million of the Prime
had fixed rate underlying collateral and $314 million had variable rate underlying collateral.   

         Alt-A
includes securities collateralized by residential mortgage loans issued to borrowers who do not qualify for prime financing terms due to high
loan-to-value ratios or limited supporting documentation, but have stronger credit profiles than subprime borrowers. As of December 31, 2010, $473 million of the
Alt-A had fixed rate underlying collateral and $176 million had variable rate underlying collateral.   

         Subprime
includes securities collateralized by residential mortgage loans issued to borrowers that cannot qualify for Prime or Alt-A financing terms due in part to weak or
limited credit history. It also includes securities that are collateralized by certain second lien mortgages regardless of the borrower's credit history. The Subprime portfolio consisted of
$1.13 billion and $260 million of first lien and second lien securities, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, $659 million of the Subprime had fixed rate underlying
collateral and $730 million had variable rate underlying collateral.   

            CMBS    totaled $1.99 billion, with 93.1% rated investment grade, as of December 31, 2010. The CMBS portfolio is subject to
credit risk, but unlike certain other structured securities, is generally not subject to prepayment risk due to protections within the underlying commercial mortgage loans. Of the CMBS investments,
94.8% are traditional conduit transactions collateralized by commercial mortgage loans, broadly diversified across property types and geographical area. The remainder consists of
non-traditional CMBS such as small balance transactions, large loan pools and single borrower transactions.   

         The
following table shows our CMBS portfolio as of December 31, 2010 based upon vintage year of the underlying collateral.   

The unrealized net capital loss of $219 million as of December 31, 2010 on our CMBS portfolio was the result of wider credit spreads
than at initial purchase, largely due to the macroeconomic conditions and credit market deterioration, including the impact of lower real estate valuations, which began to show signs of stabilization
in certain geographic areas in 2010. While CMBS spreads tightened during 2009 and 2010, credit spreads in most rating classes remain wider than at initial purchase, which is particularly evident in
our 2005-2007 vintage year CMBS.   

  84  

ABS   , including CDO and Consumer and other ABS, totaled $4.24 billion, with 87.9% rated investment grade, as of December 31,
2010. Credit risk is managed by monitoring the performance of the underlying collateral. Many of
the securities in the ABS portfolio have credit enhancement with features such as overcollateralization, subordinated structures, reserve funds, guarantees and/or insurance. The unrealized net capital
loss of $181 million as of December 31, 2010 on our ABS portfolio was the result of wider credit spreads than at initial purchase.   

         CDO
totaled $1.91 billion, with 74.4% rated investment grade, as of December 31, 2010. CDO consist primarily of obligations collateralized by high yield and investment
grade corporate credits including $1.48 billion of cash flow collateralized loan obligations ("CLO") with unrealized losses of $80 million. The remaining $434 million of
securities consisted of synthetic CDO, trust preferred CDO, market value CDO, project finance CDO, collateralized bond obligations and other CLO with unrealized losses of $121 million.   

         Cash
flow CLO are structures collateralized primarily by below investment grade senior secured corporate loans. The underlying collateral is actively managed by external managers that
monitor the collateral's performance and is well diversified across industries and among issuers. A transaction will typically issue notes with various capital structure classes (i.e. Aaa, Aa,
A, etc.) as well as equity-like tranches. In general, these securities are structured with overcollateralization ratios and performance is impacted primarily by defaults and recoveries of
the underlying collateral within the structures, which reduce overcollateralization ratios over time. A violation of the senior overcollateralization test could result in an event of default of the
structure which would give the controlling class, generally defined as the majority of the senior lenders, certain rights, including the ability to divert cash flows or liquidate the underlying
portfolio to pay off the senior liabilities.   

         Consumer
and other ABS totaled $2.33 billion, with 98.9% rated investment grade, as of December 31, 2010. Consumer and other ABS consists of $1.49 billion of auto
and $847 million of other ABS with unrealized gains of $10 million and $10 million, respectively.   

Equity securities       Equity securities include common stocks, exchange traded funds, non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate
investment trust equity investments. The equity securities portfolio was $4.81 billion as of December 31, 2010 compared to $5.02 billion as of December 31, 2009. Net
unrealized gains totaled $583 million as of December 31, 2010 compared to $179 million as of December 31, 2009.   

           Mortgage loans       Our mortgage loan portfolio, which is primarily held in the Allstate Financial portfolio, totaled $6.68 billion as of
December 31, 2010, compared to $7.94 billion as of December 31, 2009, and primarily comprises loans secured by first mortgages on developed commercial real estate. Key
considerations used to manage our exposure include property type and geographic diversification by state and metropolitan area.   

         We
recognized $65 million of realized capital losses related to net increases in the valuation allowance on impaired mortgage loans in 2010, primarily due to deteriorating debt
service coverage resulting from a decrease in occupancy and the risk associated with refinancing near-term maturities due to declining underlying collateral valuations. We recognized
$97 million of realized capital losses related to net increases in the valuation allowance on impaired loans in 2009.   

         For
further detail on our mortgage loan portfolio, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.   

            Limited partnership interests    consist of investments in private equity/debt funds, real estate funds, hedge funds and tax credit funds.
The limited partnership interests portfolio is well diversified across a number of characteristics including fund sponsors, vintage years, strategies, geography (including international), and
company/property types. The following table presents information about our limited partnership interests as of December 31, 2010.   

85  

Our aggregate limited partnership exposure represented 3.8% and 2.8% of total invested assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.   

         The
following table shows the results from our limited partnership interests by fund type and accounting classification for the years ended December 31.   

(1)     Impairment
write-downs related to Cost limited partnerships were $45 million and $297 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.
Impairment write-downs related to EMA limited partnerships were $1 million and $11 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.    

Limited partnership interests, excluding impairment write-downs, produced income of $129 million in 2010 compared to losses of
$124 million in 2009. Income on EMA limited partnerships is recognized on a delay due to the availability of the related financial statements. The recognition of income on hedge funds is
primarily on a one-month delay and the income recognition on private equity/debt funds, real estate funds and tax credit funds are generally on a three-month delay. Income on Cost limited
partnerships is recognized only upon receipt of amounts distributed by the partnerships.   

Short-term investments       Our short-term investment portfolio was $3.28 billion and $3.06 billion as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

           Other investments       Our other investments as of December 31, 2010 primarily comprise $1.14 billion of policy loans, $439 million
of certain derivatives and $363 million of bank loans. Policy loans are carried at the unpaid principal balances. Bank loans are primarily senior secured corporate loans and are carried at
amortized cost. For further detail on our use of derivatives, see the Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses section of the MD A and Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

Unrealized net capital gains    totaled $1.39 billion as of December 31, 2010 compared to unrealized net capital losses of
$2.32 billion as of December 31, 2009. The improvement since December 31, 2009 for fixed income securities was primarily a result of declining risk-free interest rates
and tightening of credit spreads in certain sectors. The   

  86  

improvement
for equity securities was primarily due to improved equity valuations. The following table presents unrealized net capital gains and losses, pre-tax and after-tax
as of December 31.   

(1)     Unrealized
net capital gains and losses for fixed income securities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 comprise $(293) million and
$(679) million, respectively, related to unrealized net capital losses on fixed income securities with other-than-temporary impairment and $1.12 billion and
$(1.80) billion, respectively, related to other unrealized net capital gains and losses.       (2)     The
insurance reserves adjustment represents the amount by which the reserve balance would increase if the net unrealized gains in the
applicable product portfolios were realized and reinvested at current lower interest rates, resulting in a premium deficiency. Although we evaluate premium deficiencies on the combined performance of
our life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, the adjustment primarily relates to structured settlement annuities with life contingencies, in addition to annuity
buy-outs and certain payout annuities with life contingencies.       (3)     The
DAC and DSI adjustment balance represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized
gains or losses in the respective product portfolios were realized. Only the unrealized net capital gains and losses on the Allstate Financial fixed annuity and interest-sensitive life product
portfolios are used in this calculation. The DAC and DSI adjustment balance, subject to limitations, is determined by applying the DAC and DSI amortization rate to unrealized net capital gains or
losses. Recapitalization of the DAC and DSI balances is limited to the originally deferred costs plus interest.    

The unrealized net capital gains for the fixed income portfolio totaled $826 million and comprised $3.26 billion of gross unrealized
gains and $2.43 billion of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010. This is compared to unrealized net capital losses for the fixed income portfolio totaling
$2.48 billion, comprised of $2.47 billion of gross unrealized gains and $4.95 billion of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009.   

  87  

Gross
unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2010 on fixed income securities by type and sector are provided in the table below.   

(1)     Included
in par value are zero-coupon securities that are generally purchased at a deep discount to the par value that is received
at maturity. These primarily included corporate, U.S. government and agencies, municipal and foreign government zero-coupon securities with par value of $723 million,
$1.70 billion, $5.82 billion and $1.36 billion, respectively.       (2)     Excluding
the impact of zero-coupon securities, the percentage of amortized cost to par value would be 100.1% for corporates,
101.8% for U.S. government and agencies, 99.6% for municipals and 103.7% for foreign governments. Similarly, excluding the impact of zero-coupon securities, the percentage of fair value to
par value would be 103.9% for corporates, 103.2% for U.S. government and agencies, 98.8% for municipals and 109.7% for foreign governments.    

The banking, utilities, consumer goods, financial services and capital goods sectors had the highest concentration of gross unrealized losses in
our corporate fixed income securities portfolio as of December 31, 2010. In general, credit spreads remain wider than at initial purchase for most of the securities with gross unrealized losses
in these categories.   

         The
unrealized net capital gain for the equity portfolio totaled $583 million and comprised $646 million of gross unrealized gains and $63 million of gross
unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010. This is compared to an unrealized net capital gain for the equity portfolio totaling $179 million, comprised of $381 million of gross
unrealized gains and $202 million of gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009.   

  88  

Gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2010 on equity securities are provided in the table below.   

(1)     Other
consists primarily of index-based securities.    

Within the equity portfolio, the losses were primarily concentrated in consumer goods, banking, financial services, technology and communications
sectors. The unrealized losses in these sectors were company and sector specific. As of December 31, 2010, we have the intent and ability to hold our equity securities with unrealized losses
until recovery.   

         We
have a comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify and evaluate each fixed income and equity security that may be other-than-temporarily impaired.
The process includes a quarterly review of all securities to identify instances where the fair value of a security compared to its amortized cost (for fixed income securities) or cost (for equity
securities) is below established thresholds. The process also includes the monitoring of other impairment indicators such as ratings, ratings downgrades and payment defaults. The securities
identified, in addition to other securities for which we may have a concern, are evaluated based on facts and circumstances for inclusion on our watch-list. All investments in an
unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2010 were included in our portfolio monitoring process for determining whether declines in value were other than temporary.   

         The
extent and duration of a decline in fair value for fixed income securities have become less indicative of actual credit deterioration with respect to an issue or issuer. While we
continue to use declines in fair value and the length of time a security is in an unrealized loss position as indicators of potential credit deterioration, our determination of whether a security's
decline in fair value is other than temporary has placed greater emphasis on our analysis of the underlying credit and collateral and related estimates of future cash flows.   

         The
following table summarizes the fair value and gross unrealized losses of fixed income securities by type and investment grade classification as of December 31, 2010.   

We have experienced declines in the fair values of fixed income securities primarily due to wider credit spreads resulting from higher risk
premiums since the time of initial purchase, largely due to macroeconomic conditions and credit market deterioration, including the impact of lower real estate valuations, which began to show signs of   

  89  

stabilization
in certain geographic areas in 2010. Consistent with their ratings, our portfolio monitoring process indicates that investment grade securities have a low risk of default. Securities
rated below investment grade, comprising securities with a rating of Ba, B and Caa or lower, have a higher risk of default.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, 68% of our below investment grade gross unrealized losses were concentrated in RMBS, specifically Alt-A and Subprime, CMBS and ABS,
specifically cash flow CLO. The fair value of these securities totaled $1.39 billion, an increase of 7.8%, compared to $1.29 billion as of December 31, 2009, due to improved
valuations resulting from tighter credit spreads driven by lower risk premiums. Gross unrealized losses on these securities totaled $736 million as of December 31, 2010, a decrease of
42.6%, compared to $1.28 billion as of December 31, 2009, due to improved valuations, impairment write-downs, sales and principal collections, partially offset by the downgrade of
certain securities to below investment grade during 2010.   

         Fair
values for our structured securities are obtained from third-party valuation service providers and are subject to review as disclosed in our Application of Critical Accounting
Estimates. In accordance with GAAP, when fair value is less than the amortized cost of a security and we have not made the decision to sell the security and it is not more likely than not we will be
required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we evaluate if we expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. We
calculate the estimated recovery value by discounting our best estimate of future cash flows at the security's original or current effective rate, as appropriate, and compare this to the amortized
cost of the security. If we do not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security, the credit loss component of the impairment is recorded in
earnings, with the remaining amount of the unrealized loss related to other factors ("non-credit-related") recognized in OCI.   

         The
non-credit-related unrealized losses for our structured securities, including our below investment grade Alt-A, Subprime, CMBS and cash flow CLO, are heavily
influenced by risk factors other than those related to our best estimate of future cash flows. The difference between these securities' original or current effective rates and the yields implied by
their fair value indicates that a higher risk premium is included in the valuation of these securities than existed at initial issue or purchase. This risk premium represents the return that a market
participant requires as compensation to assume the risk associated with the uncertainties regarding the future performance of the underlying collateral. The risk premium is comprised of: default risk,
which reflects the probability of default and the uncertainty related to collection of contractual principal and interest; liquidity risk, which reflects the risk associated with exiting the
investment in an illiquid market, both in terms of timeliness and cost; and volatility risk, which reflects the potential valuation volatility during an investor's holding period. Other factors
reflected in the risk premium include the costs associated with underwriting, monitoring and holding these types of complex securities. Certain aspects of the default risk are included in the
development of our best estimate of future cash flows, as appropriate. Other aspects of the risk premium are considered to be temporary in nature and are expected to reverse over the remaining lives
of the securities as future cash flows are received.   

    Other-than-temporary impairment assessment for below investment grade Alt-A and Subprime RMBS     

         As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses
totaled $288 million, a decrease of 7.4% compared to $311 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses for our below investment grade
Alt-A portfolio totaled $116 million, a decrease of 45.3% compared to $212 million as of December 31, 2009. The improvement over prior year was primarily due to
improved valuations resulting from lower risk premiums, impairment write-downs and principal collections. For our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized gains of
$20 million, we have recognized cumulative write-downs in earnings totaling $45 million as of December 31, 2010.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our below investment grade Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses totaled $796 million, an increase of 10.2% compared
to $722 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses for our below investment grade Subprime portfolio totaled $438 million, a decrease
of 48.4% compared to $849 million as of December 31, 2009. The improvement over prior year was primarily due to improved valuations resulting from lower risk premiums, impairment
write-downs, sales and principal collections, partially offset by downgrades of certain Subprime securities to below investment grade during 2010. For our below investment grade Subprime with gross
unrealized gains totaling $4 million, we have recognized cumulative write-downs in earnings totaling $95 million as of December 31, 2010.   

         The
credit loss evaluation for Alt-A and Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses is performed in two phases. The first phase estimates the future cash flows of the
entire securitization trust from which our security was issued. A critical part of this estimate involves forecasting default rates and loss severities of the residential mortgage loans that
collateralize the securitization trust. The factors that affect the default rates and loss severities include, but are   

  90  

not
limited to, historical collateral performance, collateral type, transaction vintage year, geographic concentrations, borrower credit quality, origination practices of the transaction sponsor, and
practices of the mortgage loan servicers. Current loan-to-value ratios of underlying collateral are not consistently available and accordingly they are not a primary factor in
our impairment evaluation. While our projections are developed internally and customized to our specific holdings, they are informed by and benchmarked against credit opinions obtained from third
parties, such as industry analysts, nationally recognized credit rating agencies and an RMBS loss modeling advisory service. The default rate and loss severity forecasts result in an estimate of
trust-level projected additional collateral loss.   

         We
then analyze the actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date by the securitization trust, our projected additional collateral losses expected to be incurred and the position
of the class of securities we own in the securitization trust relative to the trust's other classes to determine whether any of the collateral losses will be applied to our class. If our class has
remaining credit enhancement sufficient to withstand the projected additional collateral losses, no collateral losses will be realized by our class and we expect to collect all contractual principal
and interest of the security we own. Remaining credit enhancement is measured in terms of (i) subordination from other classes of securities in the trust that are contractually obligated to
absorb losses before the class of security we own and (ii) the expected impact of other structural features embedded in the securitization trust beneficial to our class, such as
overcollateralization and excess spread.   

         For
securities where there is insufficient remaining credit enhancement for the class of securities we own, a recovery value is calculated based on our best estimate of future cash flows
specific to that security. This estimate is based on the contractual principal payments and current interest payments of the securities we own, adjusted for actual cumulative collateral losses
incurred to date and the projected additional collateral losses expected to be incurred. This estimate also takes into consideration additional secondary sources of credit support, such as reliable
bond insurance. For securities without secondary sources of credit support or for which the secondary sources do not fully offset the actual and projected additional collateral losses applied to them,
a credit loss is recorded in earnings to the extent amortized cost exceeds recovery value.   

         98.8%
and 1.2% of the fair value of our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses were issued with Aaa and Aa original ratings and capital
structure classifications, respectively. 87.4%, 10.7% and 1.9% of the fair value of our below investment grade Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses were issued with Aaa, Aa and A original
ratings and capital structure classifications, respectively. As described previously, Alt-A and Subprime securities with higher original ratings typically have priority in receiving the
principal repayments on the underlying collateral compared to those with lower original ratings. While the projected cash flow assumptions for our below investment grade Alt-A and Subprime
securities with gross unrealized losses have deteriorated since the securities were originated, as reflected by their current credit ratings, these securities continue to retain the payment priority
features that existed at the origination of the securitization trust.   

  91  

The
following tables show trust-level, class-level and security-specific detailed information for our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses, by
credit rating.   

(1)     Weighted
average actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date as of period end are based on the actual principal losses incurred as a
percentage of the remaining principal amount of the loans in the trust. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security. Actual losses on the securities we hold are less than the
losses on the underlying collateral as presented in this table. Actual cumulative realized principal losses on the below investment grade Alt-A securities we own, as reported by the trust
servicers, were $3 million as of December 31, 2010.    

92  

(2)     Weighted
average projected additional collateral losses to be incurred as of period end are based on our projections of future losses to be
incurred by the trust, taking into consideration the actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date, as a percentage of the remaining principal amount of the loans in the trust. Our projections
are developed internally and customized to our specific holdings and are informed by and benchmarked against credit opinions obtained from third parties, such as industry analysts, nationally
recognized credit rating agencies and an RMBS loss modeling advisory service. Projected additional collateral losses to be incurred are compared to average remaining credit enhancement for each
security. For securities where the projected additional collateral losses exceed remaining credit enhancement, a recovery value is calculated to determine whether impairment losses should be recorded
in earnings. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security.       (3)     Weighted
average remaining credit enhancement as of period end is based on structural subordination and the expected impact of other
structural features existing in the securitization trust beneficial to our class and reflects our projection of future principal losses that can occur as a percentage of the remaining principal amount
of the loans in the trust before the class of the security we own will incur its first dollar of principal loss. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security.      (4)     Includes
total gross unrealized losses on securities in an unrealized loss position for a period of 12 to 24 consecutive months.      (5)     Includes
total gross unrealized losses on securities in an unrealized loss position for a period more than 24 consecutive months. As of
December 31, 2010, $70 million of unrealized losses on securities with other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings and $11 million of
unrealized losses on securities without other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings have been greater than or equal to 20% of those securities' amortized cost for a
period of more than 24 consecutive months. As of December 31, 2009, there were no Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses greater than or equal to 20% for a period of more
than 24 consecutive months.       (6)     Includes
cumulative write-downs recorded in accordance with GAAP.       (7)     Reflects
principal payments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    

The above tables include information about our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses as of each period
presented. The par value and composition of securities included can vary significantly from period to period due to changes in variables such as credit ratings, principal payments, sales, purchases
and realized principal losses.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses and without other-than-temporary impairments
recorded in earnings had incurred actual cumulative collateral losses of 3.0%. Our impairment evaluation forecasts more severe assumptions than the trusts are actually experiencing, including a
projected weighted average underlying default rate of 33.7% and a projected weighted average loss severity of 47.4%, which resulted in projected additional collateral losses of 15.4%. As the average
remaining credit enhancement for these securities of 20.7% exceeds the projected additional collateral losses of 15.4%, these securities have not been impaired.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses and with other-than-temporary impairments
recorded in earnings had incurred actual cumulative collateral losses of 8.0%. Our impairment evaluation forecasts more severe assumptions than the trusts are actually experiencing, including a
projected weighted average underlying default rate of 43.5% and a projected weighted average loss severity of 55.3%, which resulted in projected additional collateral losses of 24.5%. As the average
remaining credit enhancement for these securities of 6.9% is insufficient to withstand the projected additional collateral losses, we have recognized cumulative write-downs in earnings on these
securities as reflected in the table above using our calculated recovery value at the time of impairment. The current average recovery value of these securities as a percentage of par was 74.0% and
exceeded these securities' current average amortized cost as a percentage of par of 72.1%, which demonstrates our conclusion that the nature of the remaining unrealized loss on these securities is
temporary and will reverse over time. The comparison indicates that recovery value exceeds amortized cost based on a comprehensive evaluation of financial, economic and capital markets assumptions
developed for this reporting period.   

The
following table shows actual trust-level key metrics specific to the trusts from which our below investment grade Alt-A securities with gross unrealized losses were
issued, as reported by the trust servicers.   

We believe the unrealized losses on our Alt-A securities, including those over 24 months, result from the current risk premium
on these securities, which should continue to reverse over the securities' remaining lives, as demonstrated by improved valuations in 2010. We expect to receive our estimated share of contractual
principal and interest collections used to determine the securities' recovery value. As of December 31, 2010, we do not have the intent to sell and it is not more likely than not we will be
required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. We believe that our valuation and impairment processes are comprehensive, employ the most current views about   

  93  

collateral
and securitization trust financial positions, and demonstrate our recorded impairments and that the remaining unrealized losses on these positions are temporary.   

The
following tables show trust-level, class-level and security-specific detailed information for our below investment grade Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses that are not
reliably insured, by credit rating.   

(1)     Weighted
average actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date as of period end are based on the actual principal losses incurred as a
percentage of the remaining principal amount of the loans in the trust. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security. Actual    

94  

losses on the securities we hold are less than the losses on the underlying collateral as presented in this table. Actual cumulative realized principal losses on the below investment grade Subprime
securities we own, as reported by the trust servicers, were $20 million as of December 31, 2010.    

(2)     Weighted
average projected additional collateral losses to be incurred as of period end are based on our projections of future losses to be
incurred by the trust, taking into consideration the actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date, as a percentage of the remaining principal amount of the loans in the trust. Our projections
are developed internally and customized to our specific holdings and are informed by and benchmarked against credit opinions obtained from third parties, such as industry analysts, nationally
recognized credit rating agencies and an RMBS loss modeling advisory service. Projected additional collateral losses to be incurred are compared to average remaining credit enhancement for each
security. For securities where the projected additional collateral losses exceed remaining credit enhancement, a recovery value is calculated to determine whether impairment losses should be recorded
in earnings. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security.       (3)     Weighted
average remaining credit enhancement as of period end is based on structural subordination and the expected impact of other
structural features existing in the securitization trust beneficial to our class and reflects our projection of future principal losses that can occur as a percentage of the remaining principal amount
of the loans in the trust before the class of the security we own will incur its first dollar of principal loss. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security.      (4)     Includes
total gross unrealized losses on securities in an unrealized loss position for a period of 12 to 24 consecutive months.      (5)     Includes
total gross unrealized losses on securities in an unrealized loss position for a period more than 24 consecutive months. As of
December 31, 2010, $188 million of unrealized losses on securities with other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings and $108 million of
unrealized losses on securities without other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings have been greater than or equal to 20% of those securities' amortized cost for a
period of more than 24 consecutive months. As of December 31, 2009, $95 million of unrealized losses on securities with other-than-temporary impairments
recognized in earnings and $50 million of unrealized losses on securities without other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings had been greater than or equal
to 20% of those securities' amortized cost for a period of more than 24 consecutive months.       (6)     Includes
cumulative write-downs recorded in accordance with GAAP.       (7)     Reflects
principal payments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    

The above tables include information only about below investment grade Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses that are not reliably
insured as of each period presented. As such, the par value and composition of securities included can vary significantly from period to period due to changes in variables such as credit ratings,
principal payments, sales, purchases and realized principal losses.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, our Subprime securities that are reliably insured include 10 below investment grade Subprime securities with a total fair value of $76 million and
aggregate gross unrealized losses of $68 million, all of which are rated B. These securities are insured by one bond insurer rated B that we estimate has sufficient claims paying capacity to
service its obligations on these securities. The securitization trusts from which our securities were issued are currently receiving contractual payments from the bond insurer and considering the
combination of expected future payments from the bond insurer and cash flows available from the underlying collateral, we expect the trust to have adequate cash flows to make all contractual payments
due to the class of securities we own. As a result, our security-specific estimates of future cash flows indicate that these securities' estimated recovery values equal or exceed their amortized cost.
Accordingly, no other-than-temporary impairments have been recognized on these securities. As of December 31, 2009, our Subprime securities that were reliably insured by
two bond insurers included 23 below investment grade securities with a total fair value of $166 million and aggregate gross unrealized losses of $166 million.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, our below investment grade Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses that are not reliably insured and without
other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings had incurred actual cumulative collateral losses of 12.7%. Our impairment evaluation forecasts more severe assumptions
than the trusts are actually experiencing, including a projected weighted average underlying default rate of 60.8% and a projected weighted average loss severity of 70.0%, which resulted in projected
additional collateral losses of 42.1%. As the average remaining credit enhancement for these securities of 56.7% exceeds the projected additional collateral losses of 42.1%, these securities have not
been impaired.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, our below investment grade Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses that are not reliably insured and with
other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings had incurred actual cumulative collateral losses of 16.0%. Our impairment evaluation forecasts more severe assumptions
than the trusts are actually experiencing, including a projected weighted average underlying default rate of 57.1% and a projected weighted average loss severity of 77.0%, which resulted in projected
additional collateral losses of 43.0%. As the average remaining credit enhancement for these securities of 22.8% is insufficient to withstand the projected additional collateral losses, we have
recognized cumulative write-downs in earnings on the securities as reflected in the table above using our calculated recovery value at the time of impairment. The current average recovery value of
these securities as a percentage of par was 71.2% and exceeded these securities' current average amortized cost as a percentage of par of 68.7%, which demonstrates our conclusion that the nature of
the remaining unrealized loss on these securities is temporary and will reverse over time. The comparison indicates that recovery value exceeds amortized cost based on a comprehensive evaluation of
financial, economic and capital markets assumptions developed for this reporting period.   

  95  

The
following table shows actual trust-level key metrics specific to the trusts from which our below investment grade Subprime securities with gross unrealized losses were issued, as
reported by the trust servicers.   

We believe the unrealized losses on our Subprime securities, including those over 24 months, result from the current risk premium on these
securities, which should continue to reverse over the securities' remaining lives, as demonstrated by improved valuations in 2010. We expect to receive our estimated share of contractual principal and
interest collections used to determine the securities' recovery value. As of December 31, 2010, we do not have the intent to sell and it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell
these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. We believe that our valuation and impairment processes are comprehensive, employ the most current views about collateral and
securitization trust financial positions, and demonstrate our recorded impairments and that the remaining unrealized losses on these positions are temporary.   

    Other-than-temporary impairment assessment for below investment grade CMBS     

         As of December 31, 2010, the fair value of our below investment grade CMBS with gross unrealized losses totaled
$135 million compared to $67 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses for our below investment grade CMBS portfolio totaled
$134 million, an increase of 9.8% compared to $122 million as of December 31, 2009. The increase over prior year was primarily due to downgrades of certain CMBS to below
investment grade during 2010, partially offset by improved valuations and sales during 2010 in anticipation of negative capital treatment by certain regulatory and rating agencies. There were no gross
unrealized gains for this portfolio as of December 31, 2010.   

         The
credit loss evaluation for CMBS with gross unrealized losses is performed in two phases. The first phase estimates the future cash flows of the entire securitization trust from which
our security was issued. A critical part of this estimate involves forecasting the collateral losses of the commercial mortgage loans that collateralize the securitization trust. Factors affecting
these estimates include, but are not limited to, estimates of current and future commercial property prices, current and projected rental incomes, the propensity of the mortgage loans to default under
these assumptions and loss severities in cases of default. Estimates of future property prices and rental incomes consider specific property-type and geographic economic trends such as
employment, property vacancy and rental rates, and forecasts of new supply in the commercial real estate markets. Estimates of default rates and loss severities consider factors such as borrower
payment history, the origination practices of the transaction sponsor, overall collateral quality and diversification, transaction vintage year, maturity date, overall transaction structure and other
factors that may influence performance. Realized losses in the CMBS market have historically been low and, we believe, are not predictive of future losses. Therefore, our projections of collateral
performance rely on probability-weighted scenarios informed by credit opinions obtained from third parties, such as nationally recognized credit rating agencies, industry analysts and CMBS loss
modeling advisory services.   

         We
then analyze the actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date by the securitization trust, our projected additional collateral losses expected to be incurred and the position
of the class of securities we own in the securitization trust relative to the trust's other classes to determine whether any of the collateral losses will be applied to our class. If our class has
remaining credit enhancement sufficient to withstand the projected additional collateral losses, no collateral losses will be realized by our class and we expect to collect all contractual principal
and interest of the security we own. Remaining credit enhancement is measured in terms of subordination from other classes of securities in the trust being contractually obligated to absorb losses
before the class of security we own.   

         For
securities where there is insufficient remaining credit enhancement for the class of securities we own, a recovery value is calculated based on our best estimate of future cash flows
specific to that security. This estimate is based on the contractual principal payments and current interest payments of the securities we own, adjusted for actual cumulative collateral losses
incurred to date and the projected additional collateral losses expected to be incurred. In instances where the recovery value of the security is less than its amortized cost, a credit loss is
recorded in earnings.   

         26.6%,
60.9% and 9.4% of the fair value of our below investment grade CMBS with gross unrealized losses were issued with Aaa, Aa and A original ratings and capital structure
classifications, respectively. As described previously,   

  96  

CMBS
with higher original ratings typically have priority in receiving the principal repayments on the underlying collateral compared to those with lower original ratings. Tight credit markets and
conservative underwriting standards continue to stress commercial mortgage borrowers' ability to refinance obligations. While the projected cash flow assumptions for our below investment grade CMBS
with gross unrealized losses have deteriorated since the securities were originated, as reflected by their current credit ratings, these securities continue to retain the payment priority features
that existed at the origination of the securitization trust.   

         The
following tables show trust-level, class-level and security-specific detailed information for our below investment grade CMBS with gross unrealized losses, by credit rating.   

97  

(1)     Weighted
average actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date as of period end are based on the actual principal losses incurred as a
percentage of the remaining principal amount of the loans in the trust. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security. Actual losses on the securities we hold are less than the
losses on the underlying collateral as presented in this table. There were no actual cumulative realized principal losses on the below investment grade CMBS we own, as reported by the trust servicers,
as of December 31, 2010.       (2)     Weighted
average projected additional collateral losses to be incurred as of period end are based on our projections of future losses to be
incurred by the trust, taking into consideration the actual cumulative collateral losses incurred to date, as a percentage of the remaining principal amount of the loans in the trust. Our projections
are developed internally and customized to our specific holdings and are informed by and benchmarked against credit opinions obtained from third parties, such as industry analysts, nationally
recognized credit rating agencies and CMBS loss modeling advisory services. Projected additional collateral losses to be incurred are compared to average remaining credit enhancement for each
security. For securities where the projected additional collateral losses exceed remaining credit enhancement, a recovery value is calculated to determine whether impairment losses should be recorded
in earnings. The weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security.       (3)     Weighted
average remaining credit enhancement as of period end is based on structural subordination and reflects our projection of future
principal losses that can occur as a percentage of the remaining principal amount of the loans in the trust before the class of the security we own will incur its first dollar of principal loss. The
weighting calculation is based on the par value of each security.       (4)     Includes
total gross unrealized losses on securities in an unrealized loss position for a period of 12 to 24 consecutive months.      (5)     Includes
total gross unrealized losses on securities in an unrealized loss position for a period more than 24 consecutive months. As of
December 31, 2010, $39 million of unrealized losses on securities with other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings and $93 million of
unrealized losses on securities without other-than-temporary impairments recognized in earnings have been greater than or equal to 20% of those securities' amortized cost for a
period of more than 24 consecutive months. As of December 31, 2009, there were no CMBS with gross unrealized losses greater than or equal to 20% for a period of more than 24 consecutive months.      (6)
     Includes
cumulative write-downs recorded in accordance with GAAP.       (7)     Reflects
principal payments for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.    

The above tables include information about below investment grade CMBS with gross unrealized losses as of each period presented. The par value and
composition of securities included can vary significantly from period to period due to changes in variables such as credit ratings, principal payments, sales and purchases.   

         Our
impairment evaluation for CMBS forecasts more severe assumptions than the trusts are actually experiencing. We assume that all loans delinquent 60 days or more default and
project default rates on otherwise performing loans. Projected loss severities are then applied against the resulting default rates, arriving at our projected additional collateral loss rates. The
projected additional collateral loss rates by vintage year of our CMBS portfolio range from a low of 1.5% for holdings with a vintage year of 2001 to a high of 11.1% for holdings with a vintage year
of 2005.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, our below investment grade CMBS with gross unrealized losses and without other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings had
incurred actual cumulative collateral losses of 0.9%, and the projected additional collateral loss rate for these securities as of December 31, 2010 was 6.4%. As the average remaining credit
enhancement for these securities of 8.7% exceeds the projected additional collateral losses of 6.4%, these securities have not been impaired.   

  98  

As of December 31, 2010, our below investment grade CMBS with gross unrealized losses and with other-than-temporary impairments recorded in earnings had
incurred actual cumulative collateral losses of 2.3%. The projected additional collateral loss rate for these securities as of December 31, 2010 was 29.2%. As the average remaining credit
enhancement for these securities of 20.7% is insufficient to withstand the projected additional collateral losses, we have recognized cumulative write-downs in earnings on these securities as
reflected in the table above using our calculated recovery value at the time of impairment. The current average recovery value of these securities as a percentage of par was 61.3% and exceeded these
securities' current average amortized cost as a percentage of par of 61.2%, which demonstrates our conclusion that the nature of the remaining unrealized loss on these securities is temporary and will
reverse over time. The comparison indicates that recovery value is in line with amortized cost as impairment write-downs were recorded in the reporting period based on a comprehensive evaluation of
financial, economic and capital markets assumptions developed for this reporting period.   

The
following table shows actual trust-level key metrics specific to the trusts from which our below investment grade CMBS with gross unrealized losses were issued, as reported by the
trust servicers.   

We believe the unrealized losses on our CMBS, including those over 24 months, result from the current risk premium on these securities,
which should continue to reverse over the securities' remaining lives, as demonstrated by improved valuations during 2010. We expect to receive our estimated share of contractual principal and
interest collections used to determine the securities' recovery value. As of December 31, 2010, we do not have the intent to sell and it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell
these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. We believe that our valuation and impairment processes are comprehensive, employ the most current views about collateral and
securitization trust financial positions, and demonstrate our recorded impairments and that the remaining unrealized losses on these positions are temporary.   

    Other-than-temporary impairment assessment for below investment grade cash flow CLO ABS     

         As of December 31, 2010, the fair value for our below investment grade cash flow CLO portfolio with gross unrealized losses
totaled $169 million compared to $188 million as of December 31, 2009. The gross unrealized losses for these securities totaled $48 million as of December 31, 2010,
a decrease of 51.5%, compared to $99 million as of December 31, 2009, primarily due to higher valuations resulting from lower risk premiums and upgrades of certain cash flow CLO to
investment grade during 2010. Gross unrealized gains for these securities were $53 million as of December 31, 2010. For below investment grade cash flow CLO with gross unrealized gains,
we have recognized cumulative write-downs in earnings totaling $85 million.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, none of our below investment grade cash flow CLO portfolio with gross unrealized losses have other-than-temporary impairments
recorded in earnings and all of the gross unrealized losses are aged over 24 months.   

Cash
flow CLO are collateralized primarily by below investment grade senior secured corporate loans and are structured with overcollateralization which serves as credit enhancement for
the class of securities we own. Overcollateralization ratios are based on the par value of the collateral in the underlying portfolio as a percentage of the notes issued as cash flow CLO securities.
The performance of these securities is impacted primarily by defaults and recoveries of the underlying collateral within the structures, which reduce overcollateralization ratios over time. A
violation of the senior overcollateralization test could result in an event of default of the structure which would give the controlling class, generally defined as the majority of the senior lenders,
certain rights, including the ability to divert cash flows or liquidate the underlying portfolio to pay off the senior liabilities.   

The
credit loss evaluation for cash flow CLO is performed in two phases. The first phase evaluates the overcollateralization that exists for the class of securities we own. A critical
part of this estimate involves projections of future losses formulated through our assessment of the corporate loan markets, and considers opinions from third parties, such as industry analysts and
strategists, credit rating agencies, our own participation in these markets, as well as our overall economic outlook for indicators such as unemployment and GDP. The expected performance of each
security considers anticipated collateral losses and credit enhancement levels, as well as factors including default rates,   

  99  

anticipated
recoveries, prepayment rates, changes in interest rates and other characteristics. In addition, the performance of collateral underlying certain of our securities is actively monitored by
external managers, allowing for enhanced collateral management actions which help mitigate the risk of loss. If the overcollateralization that exists for our class exceeds 100%, our class has
remaining credit enhancement sufficient to withstand the projected future losses, and we expect to collect all contractual principal and interest of the security we own.   

For
securities where there is insufficient remaining credit enhancement for the class of securities we own, a recovery value is calculated based on our best estimate of future cash flows
specific to that security. This estimate is based on the contractual principal payments and current interest payments of the securities we own, adjusted for actual cumulative collateral losses
incurred to date and the projected future losses expected to be incurred. If we do not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security, a credit loss
is recorded to the extent amortized cost exceeds recovery value.   

         The
weighted average overcollateralization ratio as reported by the trust servicers for our below investment grade cash flow CLO securities with gross unrealized losses was 117.0% as of
December 31, 2010, compared to 117.5% at original issuance. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average overcollateralization ratio for our below investment grade cash flow CLO
securities with gross unrealized losses was 113.6%. As the average overcollateralization ratios exceed 100%, this indicates that projected future collateral losses will be absorbed by lower classes
and we expect the structures to have adequate cash flows to make all contractual payments due to the class of securities we own. Our comprehensive evaluation of financial, economic and capital markets
assumptions developed for this reporting period, supported by the applicable overcollateralization ratios, indicates that the nature of the unrealized loss on these securities is temporary.   

We
believe the unrealized losses on our cash flow CLO securities, including those over 24 months, result from the current risk premium on these securities, which should continue
to reverse over the securities' remaining lives, as demonstrated by improved valuations in 2010. We expect to receive our estimated share of contractual principal and interest collections used to
determine the securities' recovery value. As of December 31, 2010, we do not have the intent to sell and it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell these securities before the
recovery of their amortized cost basis. We believe that our valuation and impairment processes are comprehensive, employ the most current views about collateral and securitization trust financial
positions, and demonstrate our recorded impairments and that the remaining unrealized losses on these positions are temporary.   

    Problem, restructured, or potential problem securities     

         We also monitor the quality of our fixed income and bank loan portfolios by categorizing certain investments as "problem,"
"restructured," or "potential problem." Problem fixed income securities and bank loans are in default with respect to principal or interest and/or are investments issued by companies that have gone
into bankruptcy subsequent to our acquisition or loan. Fixed income and bank loan investments are categorized as restructured when the debtor is experiencing financial difficulty and we grant a
concession. Potential problem fixed income or bank loan investments are current with respect to contractual principal and/or interest, but because of other facts and circumstances, we have concerns
regarding the borrower's ability to pay future principal and interest according to the original terms, which causes us to believe these investments may be classified as problem or restructured in the
future.   

         The
following table summarizes problem, restructured and potential problem fixed income securities and bank loans, which are reported in other investments, as of December 31.   

100  

(1)     The
difference between par value and amortized cost of $2.42 billion as of December 31, 2010 is primarily attributable to
write-downs and a deep discount zero-coupon security. The difference between par value and amortized cost of $1.50 billion as of December 31, 2009 is primarily attributable
to write-downs. Par value has been reduced by principal payments.       (2)     Bank
loans are reflected at amortized cost.       (3)     Cumulative
write-downs recognized only reflect impairment write-downs related to investments within the problem, potential problem and
restructured categories.    

As of December 31, 2010, amortized cost for the problem category was $214 million and comprised $90 million of Subprime,
$70 million of municipal bonds, $40 million of Alt-A, $6 million of corporates (primarily privately placed), $5 million of CDO and $3 million of Consumer
and other ABS.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, amortized cost for the potential problem category was $1.49 billion and comprised $606 million of Subprime, $331 million of
Alt-A, $213 million of Prime, $125 million of municipal bonds, $79 million of CDO, $71 million of CMBS, $41 million of corporates (primarily privately
placed), $10 million of bank loans and $9 million of Consumer and other ABS.   

Net investment income       The following table presents net investment income for the years ended December 31.   

Net investment income decreased 7.7% or $342 million in 2010 compared to 2009, after decreasing 21.0% or $1.18 billion in 2009
compared to 2008. The 2010 decrease was primarily due to lower interest rates, risk reduction actions related to municipal bonds and commercial real estate, duration shortening actions taken to
protect the portfolio from rising interest rates and lower average investment balances. The 2009 decrease was primarily due to lower yields, actions to shorten duration and maintain additional
liquidity in the portfolio, along with reduced average investment balances. Also contributing to the decline in 2009 was lower income on limited partnership interests and decreased dividends on equity
securities.   

  101  

Realized capital gains and losses       The following table presents the components of realized capital gains and losses and the related tax effect
for the
years ended December 31.   

Impairment write-downs    for the years ended December 31 are presented in the following
table.   

Impairment write-downs in 2010 were primarily driven by RMBS, which experienced deterioration in expected cash flows; investments with commercial
real estate exposure, including CMBS, mortgage loans, limited partnership interests and certain housing related municipal bonds, which were impacted by lower real estate valuations or experienced
deterioration in expected cash flows; and privately placed corporate bonds and municipal bonds impacted by issuer specific circumstances. Impairment write-downs on below investment grade RMBS, CMBS
and ABS in 2010 were $332 million, $118 million and $29 million, respectively.   

         Impairment
write-downs that were related primarily to securities subsequently disposed were $99 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Of the remaining write-downs
in 2010, $386 million or 73.2% of the fixed income security write-downs related to impaired securities that were performing in line with anticipated or contractual cash flows but were written
down primarily because of expected deterioration in the performance of the underlying collateral or our assessment of the probability of future default. For these securities, as of December 31,
2010, there were either no defaults or defaults only impacted classes lower than our position in the capital structure. $138 million of the fixed income security write-downs in 2010 related to
securities experiencing a significant departure from anticipated cash flows; however, we believe they retain economic value. $3 million in 2010 related to fixed income securities for which
future cash flows are not anticipated.   

         Equity
securities were written down primarily due to the length of time and extent to which fair value was below cost, considering our assessment of the financial condition and
near-term and long-term prospects of the issuer, including relevant industry conditions and trends.   

Limited
partnership impairment write-downs primarily related to Cost limited partnerships, which experienced declines in portfolio valuations and we could not assert the recovery period
would be temporary. To determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred related to a Cost limited partnership, we evaluate whether an impairment indicator has
occurred in the period that may have a significant adverse effect on the carrying value of the investment. Impairment indicators may include: significantly reduced valuations of the investments held
by the limited partnerships; actual recent cash flows received being significantly less than expected cash flows; reduced valuations based on financing completed at a lower value; completed sale of a
material underlying investment at a price significantly lower than expected; or any other adverse events since the last financial statements received that might affect the fair value of the investee's
capital.   

  102  

Impairment write-downs in 2009 were primarily the result of recovery assessments related to investments with commercial real estate exposure, including limited partnership interests,
equity securities, mortgage loans and CMBS; RMBS which experienced deterioration in expected cash flows; ABS, including CDO squared, cash flow CDO and synthetic CDO, and hybrid corporate fixed income
securities.   

Change in intent write-downs    for the years ended December 31 are presented in the following table.   

The change in intent write-downs in 2010 and 2009 were primarily a result of ongoing comprehensive reviews of our portfolios resulting in
write-downs of individually identified investments, primarily municipal bonds and RMBS.   

            Sales    generated $686 million of net realized gains in 2010 primarily due to $595 million of net gains on sales of corporate,
U.S. government, foreign government and municipal fixed income securities and $210 million of net gains on sales of equity securities, partially offset by $139 million of net losses on
sales of CMBS and ABS. Net realized gains from sales of $1.27 billion in 2009 were primarily due to $445 million and $636 million of gains on sales of equity and U.S. and foreign
government fixed income securities, respectively. Sales of equity securities in 2009 were primarily in connection with a change in strategy that uses a more passive portfolio management approach with
a greater emphasis on asset allocation decisions.   

            Valuation and settlement of derivative instruments    recorded as net realized capital losses totaling $601 million in 2010 included
$427 million of losses on the valuation of derivative instruments and $174 million of losses on the settlement of derivative instruments. In 2009, net realized capital gains on the
valuation and settlement of derivative instruments totaled $205 million.   

         Net
realized capital gains and losses from our risk management derivative programs are primarily driven by changes in risk-free interest rates, equity market valuations,
volatility and credit spreads during a given period. Net realized capital gains and losses from our income generation derivative programs are primarily driven by changes in the fair value of the
reference entities or indices underlying the derivative instruments.   

         A
changing interest rate environment will drive changes in our portfolio duration targets. A duration target and range is established with an economic view of liabilities relative to a
long-term investment portfolio view. Tactical duration management is accomplished through both cash market transactions, sales and new purchases, and derivative activities that generate
realized gains and losses. As a component of our approach to managing portfolio duration, realized gains and losses on certain derivative instruments are most appropriately considered in conjunction
with the unrealized gains and losses on the fixed income portfolio. This approach mitigates the impacts of general interest rate changes to our overall financial condition.   

As
of December 31, 2010, our securities with embedded derivatives totaled $1.26 billion, a decrease in fair value of $152 million from December 31, 2009,
comprising realized capital losses on valuation of $3 million, net sales activity of $320 million, unrealized net capital gains reported in OCI of $123 million for the host
securities and an increase of $48 million due to the adoption of new accounting guidance. Unrealized net capital gains were further decreased by $30 million due to amortization of the
host securities. The change in fair value of embedded derivatives is bifurcated from the host securities, separately valued and reported in realized capital gains and losses, while the change in the
difference between the fair value and the amortized cost of the host securities is reported in OCI. Total fair value exceeded total amortized cost by $41 million as of December 31, 2010.
Valuation gains and losses for securities with embedded derivatives are converted into cash upon our election to sell these securities. In the event the economic value of the embedded options is not
realized, we will recover the par value if held to maturity unless the issuer of the security defaults. In the event there are defaults by the referenced credit entities of the embedded credit default
swap, our loss is limited to the par value of the combined fixed income security, net of applicable recoveries. Total par value exceeded fair value by $45 million as of December 31,
2010.   

  103  

The
table below presents the realized capital gains and losses (pre-tax) on the valuation and settlement of derivative instruments shown by underlying exposure and derivative
strategy for the years ended December 31.   

($ in millions)    
     
   2010    
     
   2009    
     
   2008    
     
   2010 Explanations    

Valuation    
     
   Settlements    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    

Risk management     
       Property Liability    
        Portfolio duration 
            management  (1)   
     
    $  

(96  
    )  
    $  

(78  
    )  
    $  

(174  
    )  
    $  

33  
     
    $  

(10  
    )  
   Interest rate swaps, municipal interest rate swaps and short interest rate futures are used to offset the effects of changing interest rates on a portion of the Property-Liability fixed income portfolio that is reported
in unrealized net capital gains or losses in OCI. The futures contracts are exchange traded, daily cash settled and can be exited at any time for minimal additional cost. The 2010 losses, resulting from decreasing interest rates are offset in
unrealized net capital gains and losses in OCI to the extent it relates to changes in risk-free rates.  

Interest rate spike exposure  (1)   

(173  
   )  

(11  
   )  

(184  
   )  

(58  
   )  

(97  
   )  
        Interest rate swaption contracts, with terms of less than one year, and exchange traded options on interest rate futures, with
three to six month terms, provide an offset to declines in fixed income market values resulting from potential rising interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, the notional amount of our over-the-counter ("OTC") swaption positions totaled
$7.81 billion and the notional amount of our exchange traded options totaled $800 million. Exchange traded options on interest rate futures are utilized to supplement the protection provided by swaption contracts without increasing the
counterparty risk associated with OTC contracts. The 2010 losses on swaptions and options on interest rate futures contracts relates to a decrease in interest rates and a decline in volatility. Volatility represents the measure of variation of
average value over a specified time period. If interest rates do not increase above the strike rate, the maximum loss on swaptions and options on interest rate futures is limited to the amount of the premium paid. The program is routinely monitored
and revised as capital market conditions change.  

Hedging unrealized gains on equity securities  (1)   

(56  
   )  

(35  
   )  

(91  
   )  

(226  
   )  

420  
     
        Exchange traded put options and short equity index futures provide an offset to significant declines in our equity portfolio from
equity market declines below a targeted level. Options can expire, terminate early or the option can be exercised. If the price level of the equity index does not fall below the put's strike price, the maximum loss on purchased puts is limited to the
amount of the premium paid. The futures contracts are exchange traded, daily cash settled and can be exited at any time for minimal additional cost. The 2010 losses on futures and options were primarily the result of an increase in the price levels
of the equity indices and a decrease in volatility and were partially offset by unrealized net capital gains and losses of our equity portfolio to the degree they reflect the changes in price levels of the equity indices, which is reflected in
OCI.  

Foreign currency contracts  

6  

(20  
   )  

(14  
   )  

4  

(27  
   )  
        Currency forwards are used to protect our foreign bond and equity portfolios from changes in currency rates. The 2010 losses on
foreign currency contracts are primary driven by the weakening of the U.S. currency versus the foreign currency.  

Credit risk reduction  (1)   

(7  
   )  

(10  
   )  

(17  
   )  

(45  
   )  

48  
     
        Valuation loss is the result of tightening credit spreads on referenced credit entities.  

Other  

1  

1  

2  

2  

(29  
   )  

104  

($ in millions)    
     
   2010    
     
   2009    
     
   2008    
     
   2010 Explanations    

Valuation    
     
   Settlements    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    
     
   Total    

Allstate Financial   

Duration gap management  

(111  
  )  
     
  (43  
  )  
     
  (154  
  )  
     
  288  

(503  
  )  
   Interest rate caps, floors, swaptions and swaps are used by Allstate Financial to balance interest-rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities. The contracts settle based on differences between current market rates
and a contractually specified fixed rate through expiration. The contracts can be terminated and settled at any time with minimal additional cost. The maximum loss on caps, floors and swaptions is limited to the amount of premiums paid. The change in
valuation reflects the changing value of expected future settlements from changing interest rates, which may vary over the period of the contracts. The 2010 losses, resulting from decreasing interest rates, are offset in unrealized capital gains and
losses of our fixed income securities in OCI to the extent it relates to changes in risk-free rates.  

Anticipatory hedging  

24  

8  

32  

(18  
   )  

153  
     
        Futures and interest rate swaps are used to protect investment spread from interest rate changes during mismatches in the timing
of cash flows between product sales and the related investment activity. The futures contracts are exchange traded, daily cash settled and can be exited at any time for minimal additional cost. If the cash flow mismatches are such that a positive net
investment position is being hedged, there is an offset for the related investment's unrealized loss in OCI. The 2010 gains resulted from a decrease in risk-free interest rates over the life of the net short position as liability issuances exceeded
asset acquisitions.  

Hedging of interest rate exposure in annuity contracts  

(16  
   )  

(16  
   )  

10  

(29  
   )  
        Value of expected future settlements on interest rate caps and the associated value of future credited interest, which is
reportable in future periods when incurred, decreased due to a decrease in interest rates.  

Hedging unrealized gains on equity indexed notes  

7  

Hedge ineffectiveness  

7  

7  

(1  
   )  

(4  
   )  
        The hedge ineffectiveness of $7 million includes $74 million in realized capital losses on swaps that were offset by
$81 million in realized capital gains on the hedged risk.  

Foreign currency contracts  

(2  
   )  

6  

4  

3  

(1  
   )  
        Currency forwards are used to protect our foreign bond portfolio from changes in currency rates.  

Credit risk reduction  (1)   

6  

(13  
   )  

(7  
   )  

(50  
   )  

17  
     
        Valuation gain is the result of widening credit spreads on referenced credit entities.  

Other  

1  

Total Risk management   
     
   $  
   
(417  
   )  
   $  
   
(195  
   )  
   $  
   
(612  
   )  
   $  
   
(58  
   )  
   $  
   
(54  
   )  

Income generation    

The 2010 changes in valuation on the Property-Liability segment are due to the tightening of credit spreads on referenced credit entities. The gains are primarily on single name credit default swaps ("CDS"). The 2010
changes in valuation on the Allstate Financial segment are due to the widening credit spreads on referenced credit entities. The losses are primarily on first-to-default CDS and credit derivative index CDS. The changes in valuation would only be
converted to cash upon disposition, which can be done at any time, or if the credit event specified in the contract occurs. For further discussion on CDS, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.  

Asset replication   credit exposure  

Property-Liability  
     
  $  
  5  
     
  $  
  10  
     
  $  
  15  
     
  $  
  13  
     
  $  
  (41  
  )  

Allstate Financial  

(10  
  )  
     
  11  

1  

64  

(62  
  )  

Total  

(5  
  )  
     
  21  

16  

77  

(103  
  )  

Asset replication   
        equity exposure 
            Property Liability  

66  

(84  
   )  

Commodity derivatives    

Property Liability  

(44  
  )  

Total Income generation   
     
  $  
  (5  
  )  
  $  
  21  
     
  $  
  16  
     
  $  
  143  
     
  $  
  (231  
  )  

105  

106  

(1)     A
portion of the risk mitigation ("macro hedge") program is contained within this line item.       (2)     For
the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, does not include $1 million of derivative gains related to the termination of
fair value and cash flow hedges which are included in sales and reported with the hedged risk.    

107  

Included in the risk management section of the table above are net realized capital gains and losses on the valuation and settlement of derivative
instruments related to our macro hedge program. Additional information regarding our macro hedge program, including these realized capital gains and losses, is included in the following table.   

(1)     In
general, for premium based instruments, valuation gains and losses represent changes in fair value on open contracts and contracts that
expired by their contractual terms during the period. If a premium based instrument terminates prior to expiration, the inception to date change in fair value is reversed out of valuation and
reclassified to settlement gain or loss. For non-premium based instruments, valuation gains and losses represent changes in fair value that occurred while the contract was open but do not
include gains and losses on termination (represented by the change in fair value of a terminated contract since its last month-end valuation).       (2)     In
general, for premium based instruments, settlement gains and losses represent the inception to date change in fair value for
early-terminated contracts. For non-premium based instruments, settlement gains and losses represent the net realized capital gain or loss resulting from periodic payments required by the
contracts during the period, as well as any gain or loss on contract termination (represented by the change in fair value of a terminated contract since its last month-end valuation).    

Our current macro hedge program consists of derivatives for which we pay a premium at inception and others that do not require an up front premium
payment. The premium payment component includes over-the-counter interest rate swaptions, exchange traded options on interest rate futures, and options on equity indices. These
programs are designed to protect against the "tail risk" associated with both interest rate spikes above, and equity market declines below, targeted thresholds, so that derivative valuation gains will
be realized to partially offset corresponding declines in value for our fixed income and equity portfolios, respectively.   

Premiums
paid are reflected in realized capital losses as changes in valuation over the life of the derivative. The maximum loss on our premium based instruments is limited to the
remaining fair value as of December 31, 2010. Scheduled expirations for our premium based instruments are $89 million in 2011 and $9 million in 2012.   

         The
derivatives in our current macro hedge program that do not require an up front premium payment are related to interest rate and credit risk hedging. These positions currently include
municipal interest rate swaps, eurodollar futures, and purchased CDS. Although interest rate swaps and purchased CDS typically do not require up front premiums, they do involve periodic payments
throughout the life of the contract. The fair value and resulting gains and losses from these instruments are dependent on the size of the notional amounts and direction of our positions relative to
the performance of the underlying markets and credit-referenced entities. As of December 31, 2010, our non-premium based interest rate hedges had aggregate outstanding notional
amounts of $125 million, decreasing from $200 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, our non-premium based credit hedges had aggregate
outstanding notional amounts of $125 million, decreasing from $678 million as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, we had 15,000 eurodollar futures
contracts outstanding. Futures contracts were not utilized in our macro hedge program in 2009.   

         The
macro hedge program is routinely monitored and revised as capital market conditions change.   

  108  

MARKET RISK     

         Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, commodity
prices, or currency exchange rates. Adverse changes to these rates and prices may occur due to changes in the liquidity of a market or market segment, insolvency or financial distress of key market
makers or participants or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness and/or risk tolerance. Our primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and equity
prices.   

         The
active management of market risk is integral to our results of operations. We may use the following approaches to manage exposure to market risk within defined tolerance ranges:
1) rebalancing existing asset or liability portfolios, 2) changing the character of investments purchased in the future and 3) using derivative instruments to modify the market
risk characteristics of existing assets and liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. For a more detailed discussion of our use of derivative financial instruments, see Note 6 of the
consolidated financial statements.   

           Overview       In formulating and implementing guidelines for investing funds, we seek to earn returns that enhance our ability to offer
competitive rates
and prices to customers while contributing to attractive and stable profits and long-term capital growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the
underlying risks and product profiles of each business.   

         Investment
policies define the overall framework for managing market and other investment risks, including accountability and controls over risk management activities. Subsidiaries that
conduct investment activities follow policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These investment policies specify the investment limits and strategies that are
appropriate given the liquidity, surplus, product profile and regulatory requirements of the subsidiary. Executive oversight of investment activities is conducted primarily through subsidiaries'
boards of directors and investment committees. For Allstate Financial, its asset-liability management ("ALM") policies further define the overall framework for managing market and investment risks.
ALM focuses on strategies to enhance yields, mitigate market risks and optimize capital to improve profitability and returns for Allstate Financial. Allstate Financial ALM activities follow
asset-liability policies that have been approved by their respective boards of directors. These ALM policies specify limits, ranges and/or targets for investments that best meet Allstate Financial's
business objectives in light of its product liabilities.   

         We
manage our exposure to market risk through the use of asset allocation, duration, simulation, and as appropriate, through the use of stress tests. We have asset allocation limits that
place restrictions on the total funds that may be invested within an asset class. We have duration limits on the Property-Liability and Allstate Financial investment portfolios and, as appropriate, on
individual components of these portfolios. These duration limits place restrictions on the amount of interest rate risk that may be taken. Comprehensive day-to-day management
of market risk within defined tolerance ranges occurs as portfolio managers buy and sell within their respective markets based upon the acceptable boundaries established by investment policies. For
Allstate Financial, this day-to-day management is integrated with and informed by the activities of the ALM organization. This integration is intended to result in a prudent,
methodical and effective adjudication of market risk and return, conditioned by the unique demands and dynamics of Allstate Financial's product liabilities and supported by the continuous application
of advanced risk technology and analytics.   

         Although
we apply a similar overall philosophy to market risk, the underlying business frameworks and the accounting and regulatory environments differ considerably between the
Property-Liability and Allstate Financial businesses affecting investment decisions and risk parameters.   

            Interest rate risk    is the risk that we will incur a loss due to adverse changes in interest rates relative to the interest rate
characteristics of our interest bearing assets and liabilities. This risk arises from many of our primary activities, as we invest substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets and issue
interest-sensitive liabilities. Interest rate risk includes risks related to changes in U.S. Treasury yields and other key risk-free reference yields.   

         We
manage the interest rate risk in our assets relative to the interest rate risk in our liabilities. One of the measures used to quantify this exposure is duration. Duration measures
the price sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in interest rates. For example, if interest rates increase 100 basis points, the fair value of an asset with a duration of 5 is expected
to decrease in value by 5%. As of December 31, 2010, the difference between our asset and liability duration was (0.64) gap, compared to a (0.24) gap as of December 31, 2009. A negative
duration gap indicates that the fair value of our liabilities is more sensitive to interest rate movements than the fair value of our assets. The Property-Liability segment generally maintains a
positive duration gap between its assets and liabilities due to the relatively short duration of auto and homeowners claims, which are its primary liabilities. The Allstate Financial segment may have
a positive or   

  109  

negative
duration gap, as the duration of its assets and liabilities vary with its product mix and investing activity. As of December 31, 2010, Property-Liability had a positive duration gap
while Allstate Financial had a negative duration gap.   

         In
the management of investments supporting the Property-Liability business, we adhere to an objective of emphasizing safety of principal and consistency of income within a total return
framework. This approach is designed to ensure our financial strength and stability for paying claims, while maximizing economic value and surplus growth.   

         For
the Allstate Financial business, we seek to invest premiums, contract charges and deposits to generate future cash flows that will fund future claims, benefits and expenses, and that
will earn stable spreads across a wide variety of interest rate and economic scenarios. To achieve this objective and limit interest rate risk for Allstate Financial, we adhere to a philosophy of
managing the duration of assets and related liabilities within predetermined tolerance levels. This philosophy is executed using duration targets for fixed income investments in addition to interest
rate swaps, futures, forwards, caps, floors and swaptions to reduce the interest rate risk resulting from mismatches between existing assets and liabilities, and financial futures and other derivative
instruments to hedge the interest rate risk of anticipated purchases and sales of investments and product sales to customers.   

         We
pledge and receive collateral on certain types of derivative contracts. For futures and option contracts traded on exchanges, we have pledged securities and cash as margin deposits
totaling $37 million as of December 31, 2010. For OTC derivative transactions including interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors, CDS,
forwards and certain options (including swaptions), master netting agreements are used. These agreements allow us to net payments due for transactions covered by the agreements and, when applicable,
we are required to post collateral. As of December 31, 2010, we held $58 million of cash and securities pledged by counterparties as collateral for OTC instruments, and we pledged
$193 million of cash and securities as collateral to counterparties.   

         We
performed a sensitivity analysis on OTC derivative collateral by assuming a hypothetical 100 basis point decline in interest rates. The analysis indicated that we would have to post
an estimated $194 million in additional collateral with 55% attributable to Allstate Financial. The selection of these hypothetical scenarios should not be construed as our prediction of future
events, but only as an illustration of the estimated potential effect of such events. We also actively manage our counterparty credit risk exposure by monitoring the level of collateral posted by our
counterparties with respect to our receivable positions.   

         To
calculate the duration gap between assets and liabilities, we project asset and liability cash flows and calculate their net present value using a risk-free market
interest rate adjusted for credit quality, sector attributes, liquidity and other specific risks. Duration is calculated by revaluing these cash flows at alternative interest rates and determining the
percentage change in aggregate fair value. The cash flows used in this calculation include the expected maturity and repricing characteristics of our derivative financial instruments, all other
financial instruments, and certain other items including unearned premiums, property-liability insurance claims and claims expense reserves, annuity liabilities and other interest-sensitive
liabilities. The projections include assumptions (based upon historical market experience and our experience) that reflect the effect of changing interest rates on the prepayment, lapse, leverage
and/or option features of instruments, where applicable. The preceding assumptions relate primarily to mortgage-backed securities, municipal housing bonds, callable municipal and corporate
obligations, and fixed rate single and flexible premium deferred annuities. Additionally, the calculations include assumptions regarding the renewal of property-liability policies.   

Based
upon the information and assumptions used in the duration calculation, and interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2010, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate,
parallel increase in interest rates ("rate shock") would decrease the net fair value of the assets and liabilities by $1 million, compared to $378 million as of December 31, 2009,
reflecting year to year changes in duration. Reflected in the duration calculation are the effects of a program that uses swaps, eurodollar futures, options on Treasury futures and interest rate
swaptions to manage interest rate risk. In calculating the impact of a 100 basis point increase on the value of the derivatives, we have assumed interest rate volatility remains constant. Based on the
swaps, eurodollar futures, options on Treasury futures and interest rate swaptions in place as of December 31, 2010, we would recognize realized capital gains totaling $327 million in
the event of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel interest rate increase and $126 million in realized capital losses in the event of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel interest rate
decrease on these derivatives. The selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in interest rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an
illustration of the potential effect of such an event. There are $8.71 billion of assets supporting life insurance products such as traditional and interest-sensitive life that are not
financial instruments. These assets and the associated liabilities have not been included in the above estimate. The $8.71 billion of assets excluded from the calculation has increased from
$8.12 billion as of December 31, 2009, due to an increase in interest-sensitive life contractholder funds and improved fixed income valuations as a result of declining
risk-free interest rates and   

  110  

tightening
of credit spreads in certain sectors. Based on assumptions described above, in the event of a 100 basis point immediate increase in interest rates, the assets supporting life insurance
products would decrease in value by $549 million, compared to a decrease of $459 million as of December 31, 2009.   

To
the extent that conditions differ from the assumptions we used in these calculations, duration and rate shock measures could be significantly impacted. Additionally, our calculations
assume that the current relationship between short-term and long-term interest rates (the term structure of interest rates) will remain constant over time. As a result, these
calculations may not fully capture the effect of non-parallel changes in the term structure of interest rates and/or large changes in interest rates.   

            Credit spread risk    is the risk that we will incur a loss due to adverse changes in credit spreads ("spreads"). This risk arises from many
of our primary activities, as we invest substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed income assets.   

We
manage the spread risk in our assets. One of the measures used to quantify this exposure is spread duration. Spread duration measures the price sensitivity of the assets to changes in
spreads. For example, if spreads
increase 100 basis points, the fair value of an asset exhibiting a spread duration of 5 is expected to decrease in value by 5%.   

         Spread
duration is calculated similarly to interest rate duration. As of December 31, 2010, the spread duration of Property-Liability assets was 4.45, compared to 5.02 as of
December 31, 2009 and the spread duration of Allstate Financial assets was 4.97, compared to 4.79 as of December 31, 2009. Based upon the information and assumptions we use in this
spread duration calculation, and spreads in effect as of December 31, 2010, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in spreads across all asset classes, industry sectors
and credit ratings ("spread shock") would decrease the net fair value of the assets by $3.61 billion, compared to $3.85 billion as of December 31, 2009. Reflected in the duration
calculation are the effects of our risk mitigation actions that use CDS to manage spread risk. Based on contracts in place as of December 31, 2010, we would recognize realized capital gains
totaling $64 million in the event of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel spread increase and $64 million in realized capital losses in the event of a 100 basis point immediate,
parallel spread decrease. The selection of a 100 basis point immediate parallel change in spreads should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the
potential effect of such an event.   

            Equity price risk    is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in the general levels of the equity markets. As of
December 31, 2010, we held $4.67 billion in common stocks and Exchange Traded Funds ("ETFs") and $4.88 billion in other securities with equity risk (including primarily
convertible securities, limited partnership interests, non-redeemable preferred securities and equity-linked notes), compared to $4.77 billion and $3.86 billion,
respectively, as of December 31, 2009. 95.5% and 63.1% of these totals, respectively, represented assets of the Property-Liability operations as of December 31, 2010, compared to 97.3%
and 57.1%, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, we had 18,000 contracts in long Standard   Poor's 500 Composite Price Index ("S P 500") puts as of
December 31, 2010 with a fair value of $34 million.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, our portfolio of common stocks and other securities with equity risk had a cash market portfolio beta of 0.74, compared to a beta of 0.73 as of
December 31, 2009. Beta represents a widely used methodology to describe, quantitatively, an investment's market risk characteristics relative to an index such as the S P 500. Based on
the beta analysis, we estimate that if the S P 500 increases or decreases by 10%, the fair value of our equity investments will increase or decrease by 7.4%, respectively. Based upon the
information and assumptions we used to calculate beta as of December 31, 2010, including the effect of the S P 500 puts, we estimate that an immediate decrease in the S P 500 of
10% would decrease the net fair value of our equity investments identified above by $695 million, compared to $605 million as of December 31, 2009, and an immediate increase in
the S P 500 of 10% would increase the net fair value by $708 million compared to $615 million as of December 31, 2009. In calculating the impact of a 10% S P index
perturbation on the value of the puts, we have assumed index volatility remains constant. Based on the S P 500 index put options in place as of December 31, 2010, we would recognize
losses totaling $14 million in the event of a 10% increase in the S P 500 index and $22 million in gains in the event of a 10% decrease. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease
or increase in the S P 500 should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of such an event.   

         The
beta of our common stocks and other securities with equity risk was determined by calculating the change in the fair value of the portfolio resulting from stressing the equity market
up and down 10%. The illustrations noted above may not reflect our actual experience if the future composition of the portfolio (hence its beta) and correlation relationships differ from the
historical relationships.   

         As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had separate accounts assets related to variable annuity and variable life contracts with account values totaling $8.68 billion and
$9.07 billion, respectively. Equity risk exists for contract charges   

  111  

based
on separate account balances and guarantees for death and/or income benefits provided by our variable products. In 2006, we disposed of substantially all of the variable annuity business through
reinsurance agreements with The Prudential Insurance Company of America, a subsidiary of Prudential Financial Inc. and therefore mitigated this aspect of our risk. Equity risk for our variable
life business relates to contract charges and policyholder benefits. Total variable life contract charges for 2010 and 2009 were $80 million and $85 million, respectively. Separate
account liabilities related to variable life contracts were $775 million and $708 million in December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

         As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009 we had $4.70 billion and $4.47 billion, respectively, in equity-indexed annuity liabilities that provide customers with interest
crediting rates based on the performance of the S P 500. We hedge the risk associated with these liabilities using equity-indexed options and futures, interest rate swaps, and eurodollar
futures, maintaining risk within specified value-at-risk limits.   

            Foreign currency exchange rate risk    is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange
rates. This risk primarily arises from our foreign equity investments, including real estate funds and private equity funds, and our Canadian and Northern Ireland operations. We also have certain
funding agreement liabilities and fixed income securities that are denominated in foreign currencies; however, derivatives are used to hedge the foreign currency risk of these funding agreements and
approximately 77% of the fixed income securities. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had $435 million and $713 million, respectively, in funding agreements denominated in
foreign currencies.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, we had $1.70 billion in foreign currency denominated equity investments, $773 million net investment in our foreign subsidiaries, and
$91 million in unhedged non-dollar pay fixed income securities. These amounts were $1.38 billion, $686 million, and $148 million, respectively, as of
December 31, 2009. 90.5% of the foreign currency exposure is in the Property-Liability business.   

         Based
upon the information and assumptions used as of December 31, 2010, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to
which we are exposed would decrease the value of our foreign currency denominated instruments by $257 million, compared with an estimated $222 million decrease as of December 31,
2009. The selection of a 10% immediate decrease in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as our prediction of future market events, but only as an illustration of the potential effect of
such an event. Our currency exposure is diversified across 32 currencies as of December 31, 2010, compared to 39 currencies as of December 31, 2009. Our largest individual foreign
currency exposures as of December 31, 2010 were to the Canadian dollar (37.0%) and the British Pound (13.3%). The largest individual foreign currency exposures as of December 31, 2009
were to the Canadian dollar (35.5%) and the Euro (22.9%). Our primary regional exposure is to Canada, with 37.0% as of December 31, 2010, compared to Western Europe, with 40.5% as of
December 31, 2009.   

         The
modeling technique we use to report our currency exposure does not take into account correlation among foreign currency exchange rates. Even though we believe it is very unlikely
that all of the foreign currency exchange rates that we are exposed to would simultaneously decrease by 10%, we nonetheless stress test our portfolio under this and other hypothetical extreme adverse
market scenarios. Our actual experience may differ
from these results because of assumptions we have used or because significant liquidity and market events could occur that we did not foresee.   

Commodity price risk    is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in the prices of commodities. This risk arises
from commodity linked investments, such as the Dow Jones AIG Commodity Index and Goldman Sachs Commodity Index which is a broad based, oil dominated index. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we
had no exposure to the indices.   

    PENSION PLANS     

         We have defined benefit pension plans, which cover most full-time and certain part-time employees and
employee-agents. See Note 16 of the consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. The pension and other
postretirement plans may be amended or terminated at any time. Any revisions could result in significant changes to our obligations and our obligation to fund the plans.   

         We
report unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
shareholders' equity. It represents differences between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for
other postretirement plans that have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic cost. The measurement of the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost can vary based upon
the fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed   

  112  

below.
The unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost as of December 31, 2010 was $1.19 billion, a decrease of $94 million from $1.28 billion as of
December 31, 2009. The decrease was the result of the recognition of a portion of unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost through pension expense during 2010, which was
partially offset by actuarial losses incurred during the year.   

         The
market-related value component of expected returns recognizes plan losses and gains on equity securities over a five-year period, which we believe is consistent with the
long-term nature of pension obligations. As a result, the effect of changes in fair value of equity securities on our net periodic pension cost may be experienced in periods subsequent to
those in which the fluctuations actually occur.   

         Net
periodic pension cost in 2011 is estimated to be $293 million based on current assumptions, including settlement charges. This represents a decrease compared to 2010 due to
favorable asset performance during 2010 and lower than expected salary increases. Net periodic pension cost increased in 2010 due to the effect of equity losses during the 2008 fiscal year and the
decrease in discount rates experienced at the end of 2009. Net periodic pension cost decreased in 2009 due to the increase in discount rate for each pension plan, which resulted in lower amortization
of net actuarial loss. In 2010 and 2008, net pension cost included non-cash settlement charges primarily resulting from lump sum distributions made to agents. Settlement charges also
occurred during 2010, 2009 and 2008 related to the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan as a result of lump
sum payments made from the plan. Settlement charges are likely to continue for some period in the future as we settle our remaining agent pension obligations by making lump sum distributions to
agents.   

         Amounts
recorded for pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income are significantly affected by fluctuations in the returns on plan assets and the amortization of unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses. Plan assets sustained net losses in prior periods primarily due to declines in equity and credit markets. These asset losses, combined with all other unrecognized actuarial
gains and losses, resulted in amortization of net actuarial loss (and additional net periodic pension cost) of $160 million in 2010 and $15 million in 2009. We anticipate that the
unrealized loss for our pension plans will exceed 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligations or the market-related value of assets in 2011 and into the foreseeable future, resulting in
additional amortization and net periodic pension cost.   

         Amounts
recorded for net periodic pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income are also significantly affected by changes in the assumptions used to determine the weighted
average discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The weighted average discount rate is based on rates at which expected pension benefits attributable to past
employee service could effectively be settled on a present value basis at the measurement date. We develop the assumed weighted average discount rate by utilizing the weighted average yield of a
theoretical dedicated portfolio derived from non-callable bonds available in the Barclays corporate bond universe having ratings of at least "AA" by S P or at least "Aa" by Moody's on the
measurement date with cash flows that match expected plan benefit requirements. Significant changes in discount rates, such as those caused by changes in the credit spreads, yield curve, the mix of
bonds available in the market, the duration of selected bonds and expected benefit payments, may result in volatility in pension cost and accumulated other comprehensive income.   

Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the weighted average discount rate would result in an increase of $43 million in net periodic
pension cost and a $392 million increase in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost liability of our pension plans recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income as
of December 31, 2010, compared to an increase of $43 million in net periodic pension cost and a $373 million increase in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit
cost liability as of December 31, 2009. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the weighted average discount rate would decrease net periodic pension cost by $38 million and
would decrease the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost liability of our pension plans recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income by $331 million as of
December 31, 2010, compared to a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $38 million and a $317 million decrease in the unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost
liability of our pension plans recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2009. This non-symmetrical range results from the non-linear
relationship between discount rates and pension obligations, and changes in the amortization of unrealized net actuarial gains and losses.   

         The
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. While this rate reflects long-term assumptions
and is consistent with long-term historical returns, sustained changes in the market or changes in the mix of plan assets may lead to revisions in the assumed long-term rate of
return on plan assets that may result in variability of pension cost. Differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets are a
component of unrecognized gains or losses, which may be amortized as a component of net actuarial gains and losses and recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income.   

  113  

As
a result, the effect of changes in fair value on our pension cost may be experienced in results of operations in periods subsequent to those in which the fluctuations actually occur.   

Holding
other assumptions constant, a hypothetical decrease of 100 basis points in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would result in an increase of
$44 million in pension cost as of December 31, 2010, compared to $39 million as of December 31, 2009. A hypothetical increase of 100 basis points in the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets would result in a decrease in net periodic pension cost of $44 million as of December 31, 2010, compared to $39 million as of
December 31, 2009.   

         We
target funding levels that do not restrict the payment of plan benefits in our domestic plans and were within our targeted range as of December 31, 2010. In 2010, we
contributed $443 million to our pension plans. We expect to contribute $263 million for the 2011 plan year to maintain the plans' funded status. This estimate could change significantly
following either a dramatic improvement or decline in investment markets.   

    Other post employment benefits     

         In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law. One aspect of this legislation is the introduction of an
excise tax, effective in 2018, on "high cost" plans. The liabilities as of December 31, 2010 for the postretirement medical plans include an estimate of this additional liability, which amounts
to $3 million.   

    DEFERRED TAXES     

         The total deferred tax valuation allowance was $6 million as of December 31, 2010 compared to $11 million as of
December 31, 2009. We evaluate whether a valuation allowance for our deferred tax assets is required each reporting period. A valuation allowance is established if, based on the weight of
available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred income tax asset will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is needed, all available
evidence is considered. This includes the potential for capital and ordinary loss carryback, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies that we may employ to
avoid a tax benefit from expiring unused and future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences.   

With
respect to our evaluation of the need for a valuation allowance related to the deferred tax asset on capital losses that have been realized but have not yet been recognized for tax
purposes, we utilize prudent and feasible tax planning strategies that optimize the ability to carry back capital losses as well as the ability to offset future capital losses with unrealized capital
gains that could be recognized for tax purposes. We have remaining capital loss carryback capacity of $439 million and $9 million from 2009 and 2010, respectively.   

         With
respect to our evaluation of the need for a valuation allowance related to the deferred tax asset on unrealized capital losses on fixed income and equity securities, our tax
planning strategies first consider the availability of unrealized capital gains to offset future capital losses and then we rely on our assertion that we have the intent and ability to hold certain
securities with unrealized losses to recovery. As a result, the unrealized losses on these securities would not be expected to materialize and no valuation allowance on the associated deferred tax
asset is needed.   

    CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY 2010 HIGHLIGHTS     

Shareholders' equity as of December 31, 2010 was $19.02 billion, an increase of 13.9% from
$16.69 billion as of December 31, 2009.           On January 5, 2010, April 1, 2010, July 1, 2010 and October 1, 2010, we paid a quarterly
shareholder dividend of $0.20, respectively. On November 9, 2010, we declared a quarterly shareholder dividend of $0.20 payable on January 3, 2011.           In November 2010, we
commenced a $1.00 billion share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2010, this
program had $840 million remaining and is expected to be completed by March 31, 2012.    
  114  

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY     

            Capital resources    consist of shareholders' equity and debt, representing funds deployed
or available to be deployed to support business operations or for general corporate purposes. The following table summarizes our capital resources as of December 31.   

Shareholders' equity    increased in 2010, primarily due to unrealized net capital gains on
investments and net income, partially offset by dividends paid to shareholders and share repurchases. Shareholders' equity increased in 2009, due primarily to decreases in unrealized net capital
losses on investments and net income, partially offset by dividends paid to shareholders.   

            Debt    decreased $2 million in 2010 due to decreases in long-term debt. Debt increased $251 million in 2009 due to
net increases in long-term debt. In May 2009, we issued $300 million of 6.20% Senior Notes due 2014 and $700 million of 7.45% Senior Notes due 2019. The proceeds of this
issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including to facilitate the repayment of the $750 million of 7.20% Senior Notes that matured on December 1, 2009. Except for
$42 million in long-term debt related to the synthetic leases scheduled to mature in 2011, we do not have any required principal payments until 2012 when $350 million of
6.125% Senior Notes are due. For further information on debt issuances, see Note 11 of the consolidated financial statements.   

         As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there were no outstanding commercial paper borrowings.   

           Share repurchases       In November 2010, we commenced a $1.00 billion share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2010, this program
had
$840 million remaining and is expected to be completed by March 31, 2012.   

Since
1995, we have acquired 463 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $19.25 billion, primarily as part of various stock repurchase programs. We have reissued
97 million shares since 1995, primarily associated with our equity incentive plans, the 1999 acquisition of American Heritage Life Investment Corporation and the 2001 redemption of certain
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. Since 1995, total shares outstanding has decreased by 363 million shares or 40.5%, primarily due to our repurchase programs.   

Financial ratings and strength       The following table summarizes our debt, commercial paper and insurance financial strength ratings as of
December 31, 2010.   

Moody's    
     
   Standard 
  Poor's    
     
   A.M. Best    

The Allstate Corporation (senior long-term debt)  
     
  A3  
     
  A-  
     
  a-  

The Allstate Corporation (commercial paper)  
     
  P-2  
     
  A-2  
     
  AMB-1  

Allstate Insurance Company (insurance financial strength)  
     
  Aa3  
     
  AA-  
     
  A+  

Allstate Life Insurance Company (insurance financial strength)  
     
  A1  
     
  A+  
     
  A+  

Our ratings are influenced by many factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability
management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), exposure to risks such as catastrophes and the current level of operating leverage.   

         On
January 24, 2011, Moody's affirmed The Allstate Corporation's debt and commercial paper ratings of A3, and P-2, respectively, AIC's financial strength rating of Aa3
and ALIC's financial strength rating of A1. The outlook for the Moody's ratings remained stable. On December 15, 2010, A.M. Best affirmed The Allstate Corporation's debt and commercial
paper ratings of a- and AMB-1, respectively, as well as the A+ financial strength ratings of AIC and ALIC. The outlook for The Allstate Corporation and AIC remained stable
while the outlook for ALIC remained negative. On November 17, 2010, S P affirmed The Allstate Corporation's debt and commercial paper ratings of A- and A-2,   

  115  

respectively,
as well as the AA- financial strength rating of AIC. S P downgraded the financial strength rating for ALIC to A+ from AA-. The outlook for all S P ratings was
revised to stable from negative.   

         We
have distinct and separately capitalized groups of subsidiaries licensed to sell property and casualty insurance in New Jersey and Florida that maintain separate group ratings. The
ratings of these groups are influenced by the risks that relate specifically to each group. Many mortgage companies require property owners to have insurance from an insurance carrier with a secure
financial strength rating from an accredited rating agency. Allstate New
Jersey Insurance Company and Encompass Insurance Company of New Jersey, which write auto and homeowners insurance, are rated A- by A.M. Best. Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company
also has a Financial Stability Rating  of A" from Demotech. The outlook for these ratings is stable. Castle Key Insurance Company and its subsidiaries, which underwrite personal lines
property insurance in Florida, are rated B- by A.M. Best. The outlook for the ratings of Castle Key Insurance Company and its subsidiaries is negative. Castle Key Insurance Company
and its subsidiaries also have Financial Stability Ratings  of A' from Demotech.   

         ALIC,
AIC and the Corporation are party to the Amended and Restated Intercompany Liquidity Agreement ("Liquidity Agreement") which allows for short-term advances of funds to
be made between parties for liquidity and other general corporate purposes. The Liquidity Agreement does not establish a commitment to advance funds on the part of any party. ALIC and AIC each serve
as a lender and borrower and the Corporation serves only as a lender. AIC also has a capital support agreement with ALIC. Under the capital support agreement, AIC is committed to provide capital to
ALIC to maintain an adequate capital level. The maximum amount of potential funding under each of these agreements is $1.00 billion.   

         In
addition to the Liquidity Agreement, the Corporation also has an intercompany loan agreement with certain of its subsidiaries, which include, but are not limited to, AIC and ALIC. The
amount of intercompany loans available to the Corporation's subsidiaries is at the discretion of the Corporation. The maximum amount of loans the Corporation will have outstanding to all its eligible
subsidiaries at any given point in time is limited to $1.00 billion. The Corporation may use commercial paper borrowings, bank lines of credit and repurchase agreements to fund intercompany
borrowings.   

         Allstate's
domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices prescribed or permitted
by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Statutory surplus is a measure that is often used as a basis for determining dividend paying capacity, operating leverage and premium
growth capacity, and it is also reviewed by rating agencies in determining their ratings. As of December 31, 2010, AIC's statutory surplus is approximately $15.38 billion compared to
$15.03 billion as of December 31, 2009. These amounts include ALIC's statutory surplus of approximately $3.34 billion as of December 31, 2010, compared to
$3.47 billion as of December 31, 2009.   

         The
ratio of net premiums written to statutory surplus is a common measure of operating leverage used in the property-casualty insurance industry and serves as an indicator of a
company's premium growth capacity. Ratios in excess of 3 to 1 are typically considered outside the usual range by insurance regulators and rating agencies. AIC's premium to surplus ratio was 1.6x on
December 31, 2010 compared to 1.7x in the prior year.   

         State
laws specify regulatory actions if an insurer's risk-based capital ("RBC"), a measure of an insurer's solvency, falls below certain levels. The NAIC has a standard
formula for annually assessing RBC. The formula for calculating RBC for property-liability companies takes into account asset and credit risks but places more emphasis on underwriting factors for
reserving and pricing. The formula for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. As of December 31,
2010, the RBC for each of our domestic insurance companies was within the range that we target.   

         The
NAIC has also developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the Insurance Regulatory Information System to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial
condition of insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or actions by insurance regulatory authorities. The NAIC analyzes financial data provided by insurance
companies using prescribed ratios, each with defined "usual ranges". Generally, regulators will begin to monitor an insurance company if its ratios fall outside the usual ranges
for four or more of the ratios. If an insurance company has insufficient capital, regulators may act to reduce the amount of insurance it can issue. The ratios of our domestic insurance companies are
within these ranges.   

  116  

Liquidity sources and uses       Our potential sources of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and Other    

Receipt of insurance premiums  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Contractholder fund deposits  

X  

Reinsurance recoveries  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Receipts of principal, interest and dividends on investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Sales of investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Funds from securities lending, commercial paper and line of credit agreements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Intercompany loans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Capital contributions from parent  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Dividends from subsidiaries  
     
  X  

X  

Tax refunds/settlements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Funds from periodic issuance of additional securities  

X  

Funds from the settlement of our benefit plans  

X  

Our potential uses of funds principally include activities shown in the following table.   

Property- 
Liability    
     
   Allstate 
Financial    
     
   Corporate 
and Other    

Payment of claims and related expenses  
     
  X  

Payment of contract benefits, maturities, surrenders and withdrawals  

X  

Reinsurance cessions and payments  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Operating costs and expenses  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Purchase of investments  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Repayment of securities lending, commercial paper and line of credit agreements  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Payment or repayment of intercompany loans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Capital contributions to subsidiaries  
     
  X  

X  

Dividends to shareholders/parent company  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Tax payments/settlements  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Share repurchases  

X  

Debt service expenses and repayment  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

Settlement payments of employee and agent benefit plans  
     
  X  
     
  X  
     
  X  

We actively manage our financial position and liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic, and business conditions. Liquidity is
managed at both the entity and enterprise level across the Company, and is assessed on both base and stressed level liquidity needs. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to meet these needs.
Additionally, we have existing intercompany agreements in place that facilitate liquidity management across the Company to enhance flexibility.   

Parent company capital capacity       At the parent holding company level, we have deployable invested assets totaling $3.84 billion as of
December 31, 2010. These assets include investments that are generally saleable within one quarter totaling $3.43 billion. The substantial earnings capacity of the operating subsidiaries
is the primary source of capital generation for the Corporation. In 2011, AIC will have the capacity to pay dividends currently estimated at $1.54 billion without prior regulatory approval. We
do not anticipate that ALIC will pay dividends to AIC in 2011. In addition, we have access to $1.00 billion of funds from either commercial paper issuance or an unsecured revolving credit
facility. This provides funds for the parent company's relatively low fixed charges.   

In
2010, dividends totaling $1.30 billion were paid by AIC to its parent, the Corporation. There were no dividends paid by AIC to the Corporation in 2009. In 2008, dividends
totaling $3.40 billion were paid by AIC to the Corporation. There were no capital contributions paid by the Corporation to AIC in both 2010 and 2009. In 2008, capital contributions paid by the
Corporation to AIC totaled $1.00 billion.   

         In
2010 and 2009, a return of capital by American Heritage Life Investment Corporation to the Corporation totaled $24 million and $13 million, respectively. There were no
dividends paid by Allstate Financial in 2008.   

  117  

There
were no capital contributions by AIC to ALIC in 2010. In 2009, capital contributions were paid in cash by AIC to ALIC totaling $250 million. 2009 also included capital
contributions to ALIC comprising the transfer to ALIC from AIC of non-cash assets totaling $448 million and the transfer of a $25 million surplus note to Kennett
Capital Inc. from ALIC in exchange for a note receivable with a principal sum equal to that of the surplus note, which was originally issued to ALIC by a subsidiary of ALIC. In 2008, funds paid
by AIC to ALIC totaled $1.41 billion. The $1.41 billion includes capital contributions paid in cash totaling $607 million and the issuance of two surplus notes, each with a
principal sum of $400 million, to AIC in exchange for cash totaling $800 million. 2008 also included capital contributions to ALIC comprising the transfer to ALIC from AIC of
non-cash assets totaling $342 million and the transfer of a $50 million surplus note to Kennett Capital Inc. from ALIC in exchange for a note receivable with a
principal sum equal to that of the surplus note, which was originally issued to ALIC by a subsidiary of ALIC. One of the surplus notes issued to AIC in 2008 was subsequently canceled and forgiven by
AIC resulting in the recognition of a capital contribution equal to the outstanding principal balance of the surplus note of $400 million.   

         The
Corporation has access to additional borrowing to support liquidity as follows:   

A commercial paper facility with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion to cover short-term cash needs. As
of December 31, 2010, there were no balances outstanding and therefore the remaining borrowing capacity was $1.00 billion; however, the outstanding balance can fluctuate daily.          Our primary credit facility is available for short-term liquidity requirements and backs our commercial paper
facility. Our $1.00 billion unsecured revolving credit facility has an initial term of five years expiring in 2012 with two optional one-year extensions that can be exercised at the
end of any of the remaining anniversary years of the facility upon approval of existing or replacement lenders providing more than two-thirds of the commitments to lend. The program is
fully subscribed among 11 lenders with the largest commitment being $185 million. The commitments of the lenders are several and no lender is responsible for any other lender's commitment if
such lender fails to make a loan under the facility. This facility contains an increase provision that would allow up to an additional $500 million of borrowing provided the increased portion
could be fully syndicated at a later date among existing or new lenders. This facility has a financial covenant requiring that we not exceed a 37.5% debt to capital resources ratio as defined in the
agreement. This ratio as of December 31, 2010 was 19.4%. Although the right to borrow under the facility is not subject to a minimum rating requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility
and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of our senior, unsecured, nonguaranteed long-term debt. There were no borrowings under the credit facility during 2010. The total amount
outstanding at any point in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot exceed the amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility.          A
universal shelf registration statement was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 8, 2009. We
can use this shelf registration to issue an unspecified amount of debt securities, common stock (including 367 million shares of treasury stock as of December 31, 2010), preferred stock,
depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and securities of trust subsidiaries. The specific terms of any securities we issue under this registration statement will
be provided in the applicable prospectus supplements.    

           Liquidity exposure       Contractholder funds as of December 31, 2010 were $48.20 billion. The following table summarizes contractholder
funds by their contractual withdrawal provisions as of December 31, 2010.   

(1)     Includes
$9.80 billion of liabilities with a contractual surrender charge of less than 5% of the account balance.      (2)     $6.50 billion
of the contracts with market value adjusted surrenders have a 30-45 day period at the
end of their initial and subsequent interest rate guarantee periods (which are typically 5 or 6 years) during which there is no surrender charge or market value adjustment.      (3)     67%
of these contracts have a minimum interest crediting rate guarantee of 3% or higher.       (4)     Includes
$1.23 billion of contractholder funds on variable annuities reinsured to The Prudential Insurance Company of
America, a subsidiary of Prudential Financial Inc., in 2006.    

118  

While we are able to quantify remaining scheduled maturities for our institutional products, anticipating retail product surrenders is less
precise. Retail life and annuity products may be surrendered by customers for a variety of reasons. Reasons unique to individual customers include a current or unexpected need for cash or a change in
life insurance coverage needs. Other key factors that may impact the likelihood of customer surrender include the level of the contract surrender charge, the length of time the contract has been in
force, distribution channel, market interest rates, equity market conditions and potential tax implications. In addition, the propensity for retail life insurance policies to lapse is lower than it is
for fixed annuities because of the need for the insured to be re-underwritten upon policy replacement. Surrenders and partial withdrawals for our retail annuities increased 2.2% in 2010
compared to 2009. The annualized surrender and partial withdrawal rate on deferred annuities, interest-sensitive life insurance and Allstate Bank products, based on the beginning of year
contractholder funds, was 12.2% and 11.8% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Allstate Financial strives to promptly pay customers who request cash surrenders; however, statutory regulations generally
provide up to six months in most states to fulfill surrender requests.   

         Our
institutional products are primarily funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts used to back medium-term notes. As of December 31, 2010, total institutional
products outstanding were $2.64 billion. The following table presents the remaining scheduled maturities for our institutional products outstanding as of December 31, 2010.   

Our asset-liability management practices limit the differences between the cash flows generated by our investment portfolio and the expected cash
flow requirements of our life insurance, annuity and institutional product obligations.   

         Certain
remote events and circumstances could constrain our liquidity. Those events and circumstances include, for example, a catastrophe resulting in extraordinary losses, a downgrade
in our long-term debt rating of A3, A- and a- (from Moody's, S P and A.M. Best, respectively) to non-investment grade status of below
Baa3/BBB-/bb, a downgrade in AIC's financial strength rating from Aa3, AA- and A+ (from Moody's, S P and A.M. Best, respectively) to below Baa2/BBB/A-, or a
downgrade in ALIC's financial strength ratings from A1, A+ and A+ (from Moody's, S P and A.M. Best, respectively) to below A3/A-/A-. The rating agencies also consider
the interdependence of our individually rated entities; therefore, a rating change in one entity could potentially affect the ratings of other related entities.   

         The
following table summarizes consolidated cash flow activities by business segment.   

(1)     Business
unit cash flows reflect the elimination of intersegment dividends, contributions and borrowings.    

Property-Liability       Lower cash provided by operating activities for Property-Liability in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to income tax
payments in 2010 compared to income tax refunds in 2009 and lower claim payments.
Higher cash provided by operating activities for Property-Liability in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to income tax refunds in 2009 compared to tax payments in 2008 and lower claim payments.   

         Lower
cash used in investing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to decreased net purchases of fixed income and equity securities and higher net sales of fixed income
and equity securities, partially offset by net change in short-term investments. Cash used in investing activities in 2009 compared to cash provided by investing activities in 2008 was
primarily due to increased net purchases of fixed income and equity securities, partially offset by net change in short-term investments.   

  119  

Allstate Financial       Operating cash flows for Allstate Financial in 2010 were higher than 2009 as higher premiums and tax refunds received were
partially offset by lower investment income and higher contract benefits paid. Operating cash flows for Allstate Financial in 2009 were consistent with 2008 as higher income tax refunds and lower
expenses were offset by lower net investment income. The increase in income tax refunds received in 2009 was related to the carryback of 2008 ordinary losses to prior tax years.   

         Cash
flows provided by investing activities in 2010 and 2009 were impacted by reductions of investments to fund reductions in contractholder fund liabilities.   

         Lower
cash flows used in financing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 were primarily due to decreased maturities and retirements of institutional products, partially offset by lower
deposits on fixed annuities. Higher cash flows used in financing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 were primarily due to the absence of issuances of institutional products in 2009 compared to
$4.16 billion in 2008 and lower deposits on fixed annuities, partially offset by lower maturities and retirements of institutional products. For quantification of the changes in contractholder
funds, see the Allstate Financial Segment section of the MD A.   

           Corporate and Other       Fluctuations in the Corporate and Other operating cash flows were primarily due to the timing of intercompany
settlements.
Investing activities primarily relate to investments in the portfolios of Kennett Capital Holdings, LLC. Financing cash flows of the Corporate and Other segment reflect actions such as
fluctuations in short-term debt, repayment of debt, proceeds from the issuance of debt, dividends to shareholders of The Allstate Corporation and share repurchases; therefore, financing
cash flows are affected when we increase or decrease the level of these activities.   

           Contractual obligations and commitments       Our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 and the payments due by period are shown in
the
following table.   

(1)     Liabilities
for collateral are typically fully secured with cash or short-term investments. We manage our short-term
liquidity position to ensure the availability of a sufficient amount of liquid assets to extinguish short-term liabilities as they come due in the normal course of business, including
utilizing potential sources of liquidity as disclosed previously.       (2)     Contractholder
funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products such as interest-sensitive life, fixed
annuities, including immediate annuities without life contingencies, bank deposits and institutional products. The reserve for life-contingent contract benefits relates primarily to
traditional life insurance, immediate annuities with life contingencies and voluntary accident and health insurance. These amounts reflect the present value of estimated cash payments to be made to
contractholders and policyholders. Certain of these contracts, such as immediate annuities without life contingencies and institutional products, involve payment obligations where the amount and
timing of the payment is essentially fixed and determinable. These amounts relate to (i) policies or contracts where we are currently making payments and will continue to do so and
(ii) contracts where the timing of a portion or all of the payments has been determined by the contract. Other contracts, such as interest-sensitive life, fixed deferred annuities, traditional
life insurance, immediate annuities with life contingencies and voluntary accident and health insurance, involve payment obligations where a portion or all of the amount and timing of future payments
is uncertain. For these contracts and bank deposits, we are not currently making payments and will not make payments until (i) the occurrence of an insurable event such as death or illness or
(ii) the occurrence of a payment triggering event such as the surrender or partial withdrawal on a policy or deposit contract, which is outside of our control. We have estimated the timing of
payments related to these contracts based on historical experience and our expectation of future payment patterns. Uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses,
customer lapse and withdrawal activity, estimated additional deposits for interest-sensitive life contracts, and renewal premium for life policies, which may significantly impact both the    
  120  

timing
and amount of future payments. Such cash outflows reflect adjustments for the estimated timing of mortality, retirement, and other appropriate factors, but are undiscounted with respect to
interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liabilities of $48.20 billion for contractholder funds and $13.48 billion
for reserve for life-contingent contract benefits as included in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2010. The liability amount in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Position reflects the discounting for interest as well as adjustments for the timing of other factors as described above.    

(3)     Our
payment obligations relating to long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating leases, unconditional purchase
obligations and pension and other post employment benefits ("OPEB") contributions are managed within the structure of our intermediate to long-term liquidity management program. Amount
differs from the balance presented on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2010 because the long-term debt amount above includes interest.      (4)     The
pension plans' obligations in the next 12 months represent our planned contributions, and the remaining years' contributions are
projected based on the average remaining service period using the current underfunded status of the plans. The OPEB plans' obligations are estimated based on the expected benefits to be paid. These
liabilities are discounted with respect to interest, and as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount of $1.57 billion
included in other liabilities and accrued expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.       (5)     Reserve
for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is an estimate of amounts necessary to settle all outstanding claims,
including claims that have been IBNR as of the balance sheet date. We have estimated the timing of these payments based on our historical experience and our expectation of future payment patterns.
However, the timing of these payments may vary significantly from the amounts shown above, especially for IBNR claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts which are
our best estimates. The reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense includes loss reserves related to asbestos and environmental claims as of December 31, 2010, of
$1.66 billion and $248 million, respectively.       (6)     Other
liabilities primarily include accrued expenses and certain benefit obligations and claim payments and other checks outstanding. Certain
of these long-term liabilities are discounted with respect to interest, as a result the sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount
of $3.34 billion.       (7)     Balance
sheet liabilities not included in the table above include unearned and advance premiums of $10.59 billion and deferred tax
liabilities of $1.71 billion netted in the net deferred tax asset of $784 million. These items were excluded as they do not meet the definition of a contractual liability as we are not
contractually obligated to pay these amounts to third parties. Rather, they represent an accounting mechanism that allows us to present our financial statements on an accrual basis. In addition, other
liabilities of $461 million were not included in the table above because they did not represent a contractual obligation or the amount and timing of their eventual payment was sufficiently
uncertain.       (8)     Net
unrecognized tax benefits represent our potential future obligation to the taxing authority for a tax position that was not recognized in
the consolidated financial statements. We believe it is reasonably possible that the liability balance will be reduced by $25 million within the next twelve months upon the resolution of an
outstanding issue resulting from the 2005-2006 Internal Revenue Service examination. The resolution of this obligation may be for an amount different than what we have accrued.    

Our contractual commitments as of December 31, 2010 and the periods in which the commitments expire are shown in the following table.   

Contractual commitments represent investment commitments such as private placements, limited partnership interests and other loans.   

         We
have agreements in place for services we conduct, generally at cost, between subsidiaries relating to insurance, reinsurance, loans and capitalization. All material intercompany
transactions have appropriately been eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions among insurance subsidiaries and affiliates have been approved by the appropriate departments of insurance
as required.   

         For
a more detailed discussion of our off-balance sheet arrangements, see Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    ENTERPRISE RISK AND RETURN MANAGEMENT     

         Enterprise Risk and Return Management's ("ERRM") role is to support Allstate's continued financial health and success. ERRM is a
disciplined, holistic, integrated and interactive approach to risk that:   

Identifies potential risks and events that could significantly impact the Company           Provides a shared viewpoint and thorough
understanding of risks and opportunities           Creates value by providing analysis of risk-return interrelationships and tradeoff opportunities          Increases transparency and provides greater assurance of achieving objectives    

At
Allstate, we have ERRM programs, risk committees and control structures to manage our enterprise portfolio of risk and return. These programs include governance policies with
established tolerances and risk limits, Board and   

  121  

senior
management involvement, enterprise modeling, risk-return analytics and communication and reporting. Our perspective of risk, return and capital needs promotes capital and financial
management.   

         Allstate's
senior management risk committee, the Enterprise Risk   Return Council, drives ERRM by establishing enterprise risk tolerance and risk-return requirements
and directing integrated strategies and actions from a holistic enterprise perspective. Allstate's Board of Directors and Audit Committee provide ERRM oversight by reviewing enterprise principles,
guidelines and limits for Allstate's significant risks and by monitoring strategies and actions management has taken to control these risks.   

         Managers,
risk professionals and chief risk officers in the various business units design and execute individual risk-return strategies that align with our overall enterprise
standards. These include managing exposure to hurricanes and other severe weather events; managing impacts to invested assets and liabilities related to changes in risk-free interest
rates, credit spreads, and equity markets; optimizing liquidity levels in light of changing market, economic and business conditions; and implementing practices to effectively identify, monitor and
control operational and strategic risks.   

         Our
comprehensive enterprise stochastic model captures the unique and specific nature and interaction of risks inherent in our various businesses and serves as the foundation of our
economic capital framework. We determine an appropriate level of enterprise economic capital to hold considering a broad range of risk perspectives, including capital stress scenarios, risks of
financial distress and insolvency, volatility, shareholder value, rating agency constraints and regulatory RBC requirements. Strategic allocation of economic capital to lines of business is based on
contribution to enterprise risk, expected return and diversification benefit, and is used for ongoing evaluation of business units and products.   

         We
adapt our ERRM processes to be fluid and dynamic in changing business and market environments and evolve our risk strategies to target return opportunities as they arise. For
continuous ERRM validation and improvement, we benchmark and secure external perspectives on our processes.   

REGULATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     

         We are subject to extensive regulation and we are involved in various legal and regulatory actions, all of which have an effect on
specific aspects of our business. For a detailed discussion of the legal and regulatory actions in which we are involved, see Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements.   

    PENDING ACCOUNTING STANDARDS     

         There are several pending accounting standards that we have not implemented either because the standard has not been finalized or the
implementation date has not yet occurred. For a discussion of these pending standards, see Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements.   

The
effect of implementing certain accounting standards on our financial results and financial condition is often based in part on market conditions at the time of implementation of the
standard and other factors we are unable to determine prior to implementation. For this reason, we are sometimes unable to estimate the effect of certain pending accounting standards until the
relevant authoritative body finalizes these standards or until we implement them.    

    Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     

Information required for Item 7A is incorporated by reference to the material under the caption "Market Risk" in Part II,
Item 7 of this report.    

    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     

Page    

Consolidated Statements of Operations  
     
  123  

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
     
  124  

Consolidated Statements of Financial Position  
     
  125  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity  
     
  126  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
     
  127  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes)  

128  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

207  

122  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  123  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  124  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  125  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  126  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES     

    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

See notes to consolidated financial statements.   

  127  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

   1.    General     

    Basis of presentation     

         The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of The Allstate Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries,
primarily Allstate Insurance Company ("AIC"), a property-liability insurance company with various property-liability and life and investment subsidiaries, including Allstate Life Insurance Company
("ALIC") (collectively referred to as the "Company" or "Allstate"). These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America ("GAAP"). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.   

         To
conform to the current year presentation, certain amounts in the prior years' consolidated financial statements and notes have been reclassified.   

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.   

    Nature of operations     

         Allstate is engaged, principally in the United States, in the property-liability insurance, life insurance, retirement and investment
product business. Allstate's primary business is the sale of private passenger auto and homeowners insurance. The Company also sells several other personal property and casualty insurance products,
life insurance, annuities, voluntary accident and health insurance, funding agreements, and select commercial property and casualty coverages. Allstate primarily distributes its products through
exclusive agencies, financial specialists and independent agencies. Certain products are also sold through call centers and the internet.   

         The
Allstate Protection segment principally sells private passenger auto and homeowners insurance, with earned premiums accounting for 83% of Allstate's 2010 consolidated revenues.
Allstate was the country's second largest insurer for both private passenger auto and homeowners insurance as of December 31, 2009. Allstate Protection, through several companies, is authorized
to sell certain property-liability products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The Company is also authorized to sell certain insurance products in Canada. For 2010,
the top geographic locations for premiums earned by the Allstate Protection segment were New York, California, Texas, Florida and Pennsylvania. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of
premiums earned for Allstate Protection.   

         Allstate
has exposure to catastrophes, an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance business, which have contributed, and will continue to contribute, to material
year-to-year fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial position (see Note 7). The nature and level of catastrophic loss caused by natural events
(high winds, winter storms, tornadoes, hailstorms, wildfires, tropical storms, hurricanes, earthquakes and volcanoes) and man-made events (terrorism and industrial accidents) experienced
in any period cannot be predicted and could be material to results of operations and financial position. The Company considers the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to hurricanes to
generally be major metropolitan centers in counties along the eastern and gulf coasts of the United States. The Company considers the greatest areas of potential catastrophe losses due to earthquakes
and fires following earthquakes to be major metropolitan areas near fault lines in the states of California, Oregon, Washington, South Carolina, Missouri, Kentucky and Tennessee. The Company also has
exposure to asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims (see Note 13).   

         The
Allstate Financial segment sells life insurance, retirement and investment products and voluntary accident and health insurance. The principal individual products are
interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; fixed annuities; and voluntary accident and health insurance. The institutional product line, which the Company offers on an opportunistic
basis, consists primarily of funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual investors. Banking products and
services have been offered to customers through the Allstate Bank. On February 8, 2011, the Company announced
that they reached an agreement to sell substantially all of the deposits of Allstate Bank to Discover Bank and plan to enter into a multi-year distribution and marketing agreement whereby
Discover Bank will provide banking products and services to Allstate customers in the future. Allstate Financial does not intend to originate banking products or services after the transaction closes,
which is expected to be by mid-year 2011, pending regulatory approval.   

         Allstate
Financial, through several companies, is authorized to sell life insurance and retirement products in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the
U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. For 2010, the top geographic locations for statutory premiums and annuity considerations for the Allstate Financial segment were California, Florida, Texas, New
York and Nebraska. No other jurisdiction accounted for more than 5% of statutory premiums and annuity considerations for Allstate Financial. Allstate Financial distributes its products to individuals
through multiple   

  128  

distribution
channels, including Allstate exclusive agencies, which include exclusive financial specialists, independent agents (including master brokerage agencies and workplace enrolling agents),
and specialized structured settlement brokers.   

         Allstate
has exposure to market risk as a result of its investment portfolio. Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur realized and unrealized net capital losses due to
adverse changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, commodity prices, or currency exchange rates. The Company's primary market risk exposures are to changes in interest rates, credit
spreads and equity prices. Interest rate risk is the risk that the Company will incur a loss due to adverse changes in interest rates relative to the interest rate characteristics of its interest
bearing assets and liabilities. This risk arises from many of the Company's primary activities, as it invests substantial funds in interest-sensitive assets and issues interest-sensitive liabilities.
Interest rate risk includes risks related to changes in U.S. Treasury yields and other key risk-free reference yields. Credit spread risk is the risk that the Company will incur a
loss due to adverse changes in credit spreads. This risk arises from many of the Company's primary activities, as the Company invests substantial funds in spread-sensitive fixed income assets. Equity
price risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in the general levels of the equity markets.   

         The
Company monitors economic and regulatory developments that have the potential to impact its business. The ability of banks to affiliate with insurers may have a material adverse
effect on all of the Company's product lines by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors. Furthermore, federal and state laws and regulations affect
the taxation of insurance companies and life insurance and annuity products. Congress from time to time considers legislation that would reduce or eliminate the favorable policyholder tax treatment
currently applicable to life insurance and annuities. Congress also considers proposals to reduce the taxation of certain products or investments that may compete with life insurance or annuities.
Legislation that increases the taxation on insurance products or reduces the taxation on competing products could lessen the advantage or create a disadvantage for certain of the Company's products
making them less competitive. Such proposals, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position or Allstate Financial's ability to sell such products and could result in the
surrender of some existing contracts and policies. In addition, changes in the federal estate tax laws could negatively affect the demand for the types of life insurance used in estate planning.   

   2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies     

    Investments     

         Fixed income securities include bonds, residential mortgage-backed securities ("RMBS"), commercial mortgage-backed securities ("CMBS"),
asset-backed securities ("ABS") and redeemable preferred stocks. Fixed income securities, which may be sold prior to their contractual maturity, are designated as available for sale and are carried at
fair value. The difference between amortized cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, certain life and annuity deferred policy acquisition costs ("DAC"), certain deferred sales inducement
costs ("DSI") and certain reserves for life-contingent contract benefits, is reflected as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. Cash received from calls, principal
payments and make-whole payments is reflected as a component of proceeds from sales and cash received from maturities and pay-downs is reflected as a component of investment
collections within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   

         Equity
securities primarily include common stocks, exchange traded funds, non-redeemable preferred stocks and real estate investment trust equity investments. Equity
securities are designated as available for sale and are carried at fair value. The difference between cost and fair value, net of deferred income taxes, is reflected as a component of accumulated
other comprehensive income.   

         Mortgage
loans are carried at outstanding principal balances, net of unamortized premium or discount and valuation allowances. Valuation allowances are established for impaired loans
when it is probable that contractual principal and interest will not be collected. Valuation allowances for impaired loans reduce the carrying value to the fair value of the collateral less costs to
sell or the present value of the loan's expected future repayment cash flows discounted at the loan's original effective interest rate.   

Investments
in limited partnership interests, including interests in private equity/debt funds, real estate funds, hedge funds and tax credit funds, where the Company's interest is so
minor that it exercises virtually no influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for in accordance with the cost method of accounting; otherwise, investments in limited partnership
interests are accounted for in accordance with the equity method of accounting.   

         Short-term
investments, including money market funds, commercial paper and other short-term investments, are carried at fair value. Other investments consist
primarily of policy loans, derivatives and bank loans. Policy loans are carried at the unpaid principal balances and were $1.14 billion and $1.13 billion as of December 31, 2010
and 2009,   

  129  

respectively.
Derivatives are carried at fair value. Bank loans are primarily senior secured corporate loans and are carried at amortized cost.   

         Investment
income consists primarily of interest, dividends, income from certain limited partnership interests and income from certain derivative transactions. Interest is recognized on
an accrual basis using the effective yield method and dividends are recorded at the ex-dividend date. Interest income for certain RMBS, CMBS and ABS is determined considering estimated
principal repayments obtained from third party data sources and internal estimates. Actual prepayment experience is periodically reviewed and effective yields are recalculated when differences arise
between the prepayments originally anticipated and the actual prepayments received and currently anticipated. For beneficial interests in securitized financial assets not of high credit quality, the
effective yield is recalculated on a prospective basis. For all other RMBS, CMBS and ABS, the effective yield is recalculated on a retrospective basis. For
other-than-temporarily impaired fixed income securities, the effective yield method utilizes the difference between the amortized cost basis at impairment and the cash flows
expected to be collected. Accrual of income is suspended for other-than-temporarily impaired fixed income securities when the timing and amount of cash flows expected to be
received is not reasonably estimable. Accrual of income is suspended for mortgage loans and bank loans that are in default or when full and timely collection of principal and interest payments is not
probable. Cash receipts on investments on nonaccrual status are generally recorded as a reduction of carrying value. Income from investments in limited partnership interests accounted for utilizing
the cost method of accounting is recognized upon receipt of amounts distributed by the partnerships as investment income. Subsequent to October 1, 2008, income from investments in limited
partnership interests accounted for utilizing the equity method of accounting ("EMA limited partnerships") is reported in realized capital gains and losses.   

Realized
capital gains and losses include gains and losses on investment sales, write-downs in value due to other-than-temporary declines in fair value,
adjustments to valuation allowances on mortgage loans, periodic changes in the fair value and settlements of certain derivatives including hedge ineffectiveness, and income from EMA limited
partnerships. Realized capital gains and losses on investment sales include calls and prepayments and are determined on a specific identification basis. Income from EMA limited partnerships is
recognized based on the financial results of the partnership and the Company's proportionate investment interest, and is recognized on a delay due to the availability of the related financial
statements. Income recognition on hedge funds is generally on a one month delay and income recognition on private equity/debt funds, real estate funds and tax credit funds is generally on a three
month delay.   

         The
Company recognizes other-than-temporary impairment losses on fixed income securities in earnings when a security's fair value is less than its amortized cost
and the Company has made the decision to sell or it is more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the fixed income security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Additionally, if
the Company does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of a fixed income security, the credit loss component of the impairment is recorded in earnings,
with the remaining amount of the unrealized loss related to other factors recognized in other comprehensive income ("OCI"). The Company recognizes other-than-temporary
impairment losses on equity securities in earnings when the decline in fair value is considered other than temporary including when the Company does not have the intent and ability to hold the equity
security for a period of time sufficient to recover its cost basis.   

    Derivative and embedded derivative financial instruments     

         Derivative financial instruments include interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, futures (interest rate, equity and commodity),
options (including swaptions), interest rate caps and floors, warrants and rights, forward contracts to hedge foreign currency risk, certain investment risk transfer reinsurance agreements, forward
sale commitments and certain bond forward purchase commitments. Derivatives required to be separated from the host instrument and accounted for as derivative financial instruments ("subject to
bifurcation") are embedded in certain fixed income securities, equity-indexed life and annuity contracts, reinsured variable annuity contracts and certain funding agreements (see Note 6).   

         All
derivatives are accounted for on a fair value basis and reported as other investments, other assets, other liabilities and accrued expenses or contractholder funds. Embedded
derivative instruments subject to bifurcation are also accounted for on a fair value basis and are reported together with the host contract. The change in fair value of derivatives embedded in certain
fixed income securities and subject to bifurcation is reported in realized capital gains and losses. The change in fair value of derivatives embedded in life and annuity product contracts and subject
to bifurcation is reported in life and annuity contract benefits or interest credited to contractholder funds. Cash flows from embedded derivatives requiring bifurcation and derivatives receiving
hedge accounting are reported consistently with the host contracts and hedged risks, respectively, within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Cash flows from other derivatives are reported in
cash flows from investing activities within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   

  130  

When
derivatives meet specific criteria, they may be designated as accounting hedges and accounted for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or foreign currency cash flow
hedges. The hedged item may be either all or a specific portion of a recognized asset, liability or an unrecognized firm commitment attributable to a particular risk for fair value hedges. At the
inception of the hedge, the Company formally documents the hedging relationship and risk management objective and strategy. The documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the
nature of the risk being hedged and the methodology used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged item's fair value attributable to the
hedged risk. For a cash flow hedge, this documentation includes the exposure to changes in the variability in cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. The Company does not exclude any component of
the change in fair value of the hedging instrument from the effectiveness assessment. At each reporting date, the Company confirms that the hedging instrument continues to be highly effective in
offsetting the hedged risk. Ineffectiveness in fair value hedges and cash flow hedges, if any, is reported in realized capital gains and losses.   

Fair value hedges       For hedging instruments used in fair value hedges, when the hedged items are investment assets or a portion thereof, the
change in
fair value of the derivatives is reported in net investment income, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged items. The change in fair value of hedging instruments used in fair value
hedges of contractholder funds liabilities or a portion thereof is reported in interest credited to contractholder funds, together with the change in the fair value of the hedged items. Accrued
periodic settlements on swaps are reported together with the changes in fair value of the swaps in net investment income or interest credited to contractholder funds. The amortized cost for fixed
income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans or the carrying value of the hedged liability is adjusted for the change in the fair value of the hedged risk.   

           Cash flow hedges       For hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges, the changes in fair value of the derivatives representing the effective
portion of
the hedge are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Amounts are reclassified to net investment income, realized capital gains and losses or interest expense as the hedged or forecasted
transaction affects net income. Accrued periodic settlements on derivatives used in cash flow hedges are reported in net investment income. The amount reported in accumulated other comprehensive
income for a hedged transaction is limited to the lesser of the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative less the amount reclassified to net income, or the cumulative gain or loss on the derivative
needed to offset the cumulative change in the expected future cash flows on the hedged transaction from inception of the hedge less the
derivative gain or loss previously reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income. If the Company expects at any time that the loss reported in accumulated other comprehensive
income would lead to a net loss on the combination of the hedging instrument and the hedged transaction which may not be recoverable, a loss is recognized immediately in realized capital gains and
losses. If an impairment loss is recognized on an asset or an additional obligation is incurred on a liability involved in a hedge transaction, any offsetting gain in accumulated other comprehensive
income is reclassified and reported together with the impairment loss or recognition of the obligation.   

           Termination of hedge accounting       If, subsequent to entering into a hedge transaction, the derivative becomes ineffective (including if the
hedged item
is sold or otherwise extinguished, the occurrence of a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable or the hedged asset becomes other-than-temporarily impaired), the
Company may terminate the derivative position. The Company may also terminate derivative instruments or redesignate them as non-hedge as a result of other events or circumstances. If the
derivative instrument is not terminated when a fair value hedge is no longer effective, the future gains and losses recognized on the derivative are reported in realized capital gains and losses. When
a fair value hedge is no longer effective, is redesignated as non-hedge or when the derivative has been terminated, the fair value gain or loss on the hedged asset, liability or portion
thereof which has already been recognized in income while the hedge was in place and used to adjust the amortized cost for fixed income securities, the carrying value for mortgage loans or the
carrying value of the hedged liability, is amortized over the remaining life of the hedged asset, liability or portion thereof, and reflected in net investment income or interest credited to
contractholder funds beginning in the period that hedge accounting is no longer applied. If the hedged item in a fair value hedge is an asset which has become
other-than-temporarily impaired, the adjustment made to the amortized cost for fixed income securities or the carrying value for mortgage loans is subject to the accounting
policies applied to other-than-temporarily impaired assets.   

         When
a derivative instrument used in a cash flow hedge of an existing asset or liability is no longer effective or is terminated, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative is
reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to net income as the hedged risk impacts net income. If the derivative instrument is not terminated when a cash flow hedge is no longer
effective, the future gains and losses recognized on the derivative are reported in realized capital gains and losses. When a derivative instrument used in a cash flow hedge of a forecasted
transaction is terminated because it is probable the forecasted transaction will not occur, the gain or loss recognized on the derivative is   

  131  

immediately
reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to realized capital gains and losses in the period that hedge accounting is no longer applied.   

Non-hedge derivative financial instruments       The Company has certain derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied. The income
statement effects, including fair value gains and losses and accrued periodic settlements, of these derivatives are reported on the Consolidated Statements of Operations either in realized capital
gains and losses or in a single line item together with the results of the associated asset or liability for which risks are being managed.   

    Securities loaned     

         The Company's business activities include securities lending transactions, which are used primarily to generate net investment income.
The proceeds received in conjunction with securities lending transactions are reinvested in short-term investments or fixed income securities. These transactions are short-term
in nature, usually 30 days or less.   

         The
Company receives cash collateral for securities loaned in an amount generally equal to 102% and 105% of the fair value of domestic and foreign securities, respectively, and records
the related obligations to return the collateral in other liabilities and accrued expenses. The carrying value of these obligations approximates fair value because of their relatively
short-term nature. The Company monitors the market value of securities loaned on a daily basis and obtains additional collateral as necessary under the terms of the agreements to mitigate
counterparty credit risk. The Company maintains the right and ability to redeem the securities loaned on short notice. Substantially all of the Company's securities loaned are placed with large banks.   

    Recognition of premium revenues and contract charges, and related benefits and interest credited     

         Property-liability premiums are deferred and earned on a pro-rata basis over the terms of the policies, typically periods
of six or twelve months. The portion of premiums written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned premiums. Premium installment receivables, net, represent premiums
written and not yet collected, net of an allowance for uncollectible premiums. The Company regularly evaluates premium installment receivables and adjusts its valuation allowance as appropriate. The
valuation allowance for uncollectible premium installment receivables was $75 million and $77 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

         Traditional
life insurance products consist principally of products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits, primarily term and whole life insurance products. Premiums from these
products are recognized as revenue when due from policyholders. Benefits are reflected in life and annuity contract benefits and recognized in relation to premiums, so that profits are recognized over
the life of the policy.   

         Immediate
annuities with life contingencies, including certain structured settlement annuities, provide insurance protection over a period that extends beyond the period during which
premiums are collected. Premiums from these products are recognized as revenue when received at the inception of the contract. Benefits and expenses are recognized in relation to premiums. Profits
from these policies come from investment income, which is recognized over the life of the contract.   

         Interest-sensitive
life contracts, such as universal life and single premium life, are insurance contracts whose terms are not fixed and guaranteed. The terms that may be changed include
premiums paid by the contractholder, interest credited to the contractholder account balance and contract charges assessed against the contractholder account balance. Premiums from these contracts are
reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balance for the cost of insurance (mortality risk),
contract administration and surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates. These contract charges are recognized as revenue when assessed against the contractholder account balance.
Life and annuity contract benefits include life-contingent benefit payments in excess of the contractholder account balance.   

         Contracts
that do not subject the Company to significant risk arising from mortality or morbidity are referred to as investment contracts. Fixed annuities, including market value
adjusted annuities, equity-indexed annuities and immediate annuities without life contingencies, and funding agreements (primarily backing medium-term notes) are considered investment
contracts. Consideration received for such contracts is reported as contractholder fund deposits. Contract charges for investment contracts consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account
balance for maintenance, administration and surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates, and are recognized when assessed against the contractholder account balance.   

         Interest
credited to contractholder funds represents interest accrued or paid on interest-sensitive life contracts and investment contracts. Crediting rates for certain fixed annuities
and interest-sensitive life contracts are adjusted periodically by the Company to reflect current market conditions subject to contractually guaranteed minimum rates. Crediting rates for indexed
annuities and indexed funding agreements are generally based on a specified interest rate index, such as LIBOR, or an equity index, such as the Standard   Poor's ("S P") 500 Index. Interest
credited also   

  132  

includes
amortization of DSI expenses. DSI is amortized into interest credited using the same method used to amortize DAC.   

         Contract
charges for variable life and variable annuity products consist of fees assessed against the contractholder account balances for contract maintenance, administration, mortality,
expense and surrender of the contract prior to contractually specified dates. Contract benefits incurred for variable annuity products include guaranteed minimum death, income, withdrawal and
accumulation benefits. Substantially all of the Company's variable annuity business is ceded through reinsurance agreements and the contract charges and contract benefits related thereto are reported
net of reinsurance ceded.   

    Deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs     

         Costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring property-liability insurance, life insurance and investment contracts are
deferred and recorded as DAC. These costs are principally agents' and brokers' remuneration, premium taxes, inspection costs, and certain underwriting and direct mail solicitation expenses. DSI costs,
which are deferred and recorded as other assets, relate to sales inducements offered on sales to new customers, principally on annuity and interest-sensitive life contracts. These sales inducements
are primarily in the form of additional credits to the customer's account balance or enhancements to interest credited for a specified period which are in excess of the rates currently being credited
to similar contracts without sales inducements. All other acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and included in operating costs and expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. DAC
associated with property-liability insurance is amortized into income as premiums are earned, typically over periods of six or twelve months, and is included in amortization of deferred policy
acquisition costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Future investment income is considered in determining the recoverability of DAC. Amortization of DAC associated with life insurance and
investment contracts is included in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and is described in more detail below. DSI is amortized into income
using the same methodology and assumptions as DAC and is included in interest credited to contractholder funds on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. DAC and DSI are periodically reviewed for
recoverability and adjusted if necessary.   

         For
traditional life insurance, DAC is amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the estimated revenues on such business. Assumptions used in the
amortization of DAC and reserve calculations are established at the time the policy is issued and are generally not revised during the life of the policy. Any deviations from projected business in
force resulting from actual policy terminations differing from expected levels and any estimated premium deficiencies may result in a change to the rate of amortization in the period such events
occur. Generally, the amortization periods for these policies approximates the estimated lives of the policies.   

         For
interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts, DAC and DSI are amortized in proportion to the incidence of the total present value of gross profits, which
includes both actual historical gross profits ("AGP") and estimated future gross profits ("EGP") expected to be earned over the estimated lives of the contracts. The amortization is net of interest on
the prior period DAC balance using rates established at the inception of the contracts. Actual amortization periods generally range from 15-30 years; however, incorporating
estimates of the rate of customer surrenders, partial withdrawals and deaths generally results in the majority of the DAC being amortized during the surrender charge period, which is typically
10-20 years for interest-sensitive life and 5-10 years for fixed annuities. The cumulative DAC and DSI amortization is reestimated and adjusted by a cumulative
charge or credit to results of operations when there is a difference between the incidence of actual versus expected gross profits in a reporting period or when there is a change in total EGP. When
DAC or DSI amortization or a component of gross profits for a quarterly period is potentially negative (which would result in an increase of the DAC or DSI balance) as a result of negative AGP, the
specific facts and circumstances surrounding the potential negative amortization are considered to determine whether it is appropriate for recognition in the consolidated financial statements.
Negative amortization is only recorded when the increased DAC or DSI balance is determined to be recoverable based on facts and circumstances. Recapitalization of DAC and DSI is limited to the
originally deferred costs plus interest.   

         AGP
and EGP consist primarily of the following components: contract charges for the cost of insurance less mortality costs and other benefits; investment income and realized capital
gains and losses less interest credited; and surrender and other contract charges less maintenance expenses. The principal assumptions for determining the amount of EGP are investment returns,
including capital gains and losses on assets supporting contract liabilities, interest crediting rates to contractholders, and the effects of persistency, mortality, expenses, and hedges if
applicable. For products whose supporting investments are exposed to capital losses in excess of the Company's expectations which may cause periodic AGP to become temporarily negative, EGP and AGP
utilized in DAC and DSI amortization may be modified to exclude the excess capital losses.   

  133  

The
Company performs quarterly reviews of DAC and DSI recoverability for interest-sensitive life, fixed annuities and other investment contracts in the aggregate using current
assumptions. If a change in the amount of EGP is significant, it could result in the unamortized DAC and DSI not being recoverable, resulting in a charge which is
included as a component of amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs or interest credited to contractholder funds, respectively.   

         The
DAC and DSI balances presented include adjustments to reflect the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized capital gains or losses
in the respective product investment portfolios were actually realized. The adjustments are recorded net of tax in accumulated other comprehensive income. DAC, DSI and deferred income taxes determined
on unrealized capital gains and losses and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income recognize the impact on shareholders' equity consistently with the amounts that would be recognized in the
income statement on realized capital gains and losses.   

         Customers
of the Company may exchange one insurance policy or investment contract for another offered by the Company, or make modifications to an existing investment, life or
property-liability contract issued by the Company. These transactions are identified as internal replacements for accounting purposes. Internal replacement transactions determined to result in
replacement contracts that are substantially unchanged from the replaced contracts are accounted for as continuations of the replaced contracts. Unamortized DAC and DSI related to the replaced
contracts continue to be deferred and amortized in connection with the replacement contracts. For interest-sensitive life insurance and investment contracts, the EGP of the replacement contracts are
treated as a revision to the EGP of the replaced contracts in the determination of amortization of DAC and DSI. For traditional life and property-liability insurance policies, any changes to
unamortized DAC that result from replacement contracts are treated as prospective revisions. Any costs associated with the issuance of replacement contracts are characterized as maintenance costs and
expensed as incurred.   

         Internal
replacement transactions determined to result in a substantial change to the replaced contracts are accounted for as an extinguishment of the replaced contracts, and any
unamortized DAC and DSI related to the replaced contracts are eliminated with a corresponding charge to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs or interest credited to contractholder funds,
respectively.   

         The
costs assigned to the right to receive future cash flows from certain business purchased from other insurers are also classified as DAC in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position. The costs capitalized represent the present value of future profits expected to be earned over the lives of the contracts acquired. These costs are amortized as profits emerge over the lives
of the acquired business and are periodically evaluated for recoverability. The present value of future profits was $133 million and $158 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Amortization expense of the present value of future profits was $23 million, $28 million and $21 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

    Reinsurance     

         In the normal course of business, the Company seeks to limit aggregate and single exposure to losses on large risks by purchasing
reinsurance (see Note 9). The Company has also used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. The amounts reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position as reinsurance recoverables include amounts billed to reinsurers on losses paid as well as estimates of amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers on insurance liabilities and
contractholder funds that have not yet been paid. Reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses are estimated based upon assumptions consistent with those used in establishing the liabilities related to
the underlying reinsured contracts. Insurance liabilities are reported gross of reinsurance recoverables. Reinsurance premiums are generally
reflected in income in a manner consistent with the recognition of premiums on the reinsured contracts. For catastrophe coverage, the cost of reinsurance premiums is recognized ratably over the
contract period to the extent coverage remains available. Reinsurance does not extinguish the Company's primary liability under the policies written. Therefore, the Company regularly evaluates the
financial condition of its reinsurers including their activities with respect to claim settlement practices and commutations, and establishes allowances for uncollectible reinsurance as appropriate.   

    Goodwill     

         Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquiring businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The goodwill
balances were $456 million and $418 million as of December 31, 2010 and $457 million and $418 million as of December 31, 2009 for the Allstate Protection
segment and the Allstate Financial segment, respectively. The Company annually evaluates goodwill for impairment using a trading multiple analysis, which is a widely accepted valuation technique to
estimate the fair value of its reporting units. If conditions warrant, a discounted cash flow analysis may also be used. The Company also reviews its goodwill for impairment whenever events or   

  134  

changes
in circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of goodwill may exceed its implied fair value. Goodwill impairment evaluations indicated no impairment as of
December 31, 2010 or 2009.   

    Property and equipment     

         Property and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Included in property and equipment are capitalized costs
related to computer software licenses and software developed for internal use. These costs generally consist of certain external payroll and payroll related costs. Certain facilities and equipment
held under capital leases are also classified as property and equipment with the related lease obligations recorded as liabilities. Property and equipment depreciation is calculated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally 3 to 10 years for equipment and 40 years for real property. Depreciation expense is reported in
operating costs and expenses. Accumulated depreciation on property and equipment was $2.41 billion and $2.32 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Depreciation
expense on property and equipment was $239 million, $256 million and $240 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company reviews its property and equipment for
impairment at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.   

    Income taxes     

         The income tax provision is calculated under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the
difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at the enacted tax rates. The principal assets and liabilities giving rise to such differences are unrealized capital
gains and losses on certain investments, differences in tax bases of invested assets, insurance reserves, unearned premiums, DAC, accrued compensation and other postretirement benefits. A deferred tax
asset valuation allowance is established when there is uncertainty that such assets will be realized (see Note 14).   

    Reserves for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense and life-contingent contract benefits     

         The reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is the estimate of amounts necessary to settle all reported and
unreported claims for the ultimate cost of insured property-liability losses, based upon the facts of each case and the Company's experience with similar cases. Estimated amounts of salvage and
subrogation are deducted from the reserve for claims and claims expense. The establishment of appropriate reserves, including reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process.
Reserve estimates are regularly reviewed and updated, using the most current information available. Any resulting reestimates are reflected in current results of operations (see Note 7).   

         The
reserve for life-contingent contract benefits payable under insurance policies, including traditional life insurance, life-contingent immediate annuities and
voluntary accident and health products, is computed on the basis of long-term actuarial assumptions of future investment yields, mortality, morbidity, policy terminations and expenses (see
Note 8). These assumptions, which for traditional life insurance are applied using the net level premium method, include provisions for adverse deviation and generally vary by characteristics
such as type of coverage, year of issue and policy duration. To the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a premium deficiency if those gains were realized, the
related increase in reserves for certain immediate annuities with life contingencies is recorded net of tax as a reduction of unrealized net capital gains included in accumulated other comprehensive
income.   

    Contractholder funds     

         Contractholder funds represent interest-bearing liabilities arising from the sale of products such as interest-sensitive life, fixed
annuities, bank deposits and funding agreements. Contractholder funds are comprised primarily of deposits received and interest credited to the benefit of the contractholder less surrenders and
withdrawals, mortality charges and administrative expenses (see Note 8). Contractholder funds also include reserves for secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance and certain
fixed annuity contracts and reserves for certain guarantees on reinsured variable annuity contracts.   

Separate accounts     

         Separate accounts assets are carried at fair value. The assets of the separate accounts are legally segregated and available only to
settle separate account contract obligations. Separate accounts liabilities represent the contractholders' claims to the related assets and are carried at an amount equal to the separate accounts
assets. Investment income and realized capital gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contractholders and therefore, are not included in the Company's Consolidated Statements
of Operations. Deposits to and surrenders and withdrawals from the separate accounts are reflected in separate accounts liabilities and are not included in consolidated cash flows.   

  135  

Absent any contract provision wherein the Company provides a guarantee, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts'
funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. Substantially all of the Company's variable annuity business was reinsured beginning in 2006.   

    Deferred Employee Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") expense     

         Deferred ESOP expense represents the remaining unrecognized cost of shares acquired by the Allstate ESOP to pre-fund a
portion of the Company's contribution to the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan (see Note 16).   

Equity incentive plans     

         The Company currently has equity incentive plans that permit the Company to grant nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options,
restricted or unrestricted shares of the Company's stock and restricted stock units ("equity awards") to certain employees and directors of the Company (see Note 17). The Company recognizes the
fair value of equity awards computed at the award date over the period in which the
requisite service is rendered. The Company uses a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of employee stock options.   

    Off-balance-sheet financial instruments     

         Commitments to invest, commitments to purchase private placement securities, commitments to extend loans, financial guarantees and
credit guarantees have off-balance-sheet risk because their contractual amounts are not recorded in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position (see Note 6 and
Note 13).   

    Consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs")     

         The Company consolidates VIEs when it is the primary beneficiary. A primary beneficiary is the entity with both the power to direct the
activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses, or the right to receive benefits, that could potentially be significant to
the VIE (see Note 11).   

    Foreign currency translation     

         The local currency of the Company's foreign subsidiaries is deemed to be the functional currency of the country in which these
subsidiaries operate. The financial statements of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the end of a reporting period for assets and
liabilities and at average exchange rates during the period for results of operations. The unrealized gains and losses from the translation of the net assets are recorded as unrealized foreign
currency translation adjustments and included in accumulated other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Changes in unrealized foreign currency translation
adjustments are included in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are reported in operating costs and expenses and have not been material.   

    Earnings per share     

         Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, including unvested participating
restricted stock units. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding. For the Company, dilutive potential common
shares consist of outstanding stock options and unvested non-participating restricted stock units.   

  136  

The
computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31 is presented in the following table.   

The effect of dilutive potential common shares does not include the effect of options with an anti-dilutive effect on earnings per
share because their exercise prices exceed the average market price of Allstate common shares during the period or for which the unrecognized compensation cost would have an anti-dilutive
effect. Options to purchase 26.7 million, 25.9 million and 27.1 million Allstate common shares, with exercise prices ranging from $27.36 to $64.53, $23.13 to $65.38 and $28.41 to
$65.38, were outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share in those years.   

         As
a result of the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008, weighted average dilutive potential common shares outstanding resulting from stock options of 1.3 million
were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share since inclusion of these securities would have an anti-dilutive effect. In the absence of the net loss, weighted average
common and dilutive potential common shares outstanding would have totaled 549.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.   

    Adopted accounting standards     

    Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements     

         In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued new accounting guidance which expands disclosure requirements
relating to fair value measurements. The guidance adds requirements for disclosing amounts of and reasons for significant transfers into and out of Levels 1 and 2 and requires gross rather than
net disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements relating to Level 3 measurements. The guidance also provides clarification that fair value measurement disclosures are required
for each class of assets and liabilities. Disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for measurements that fall in either Level 2 or Level 3 are
also required. The Company adopted the provisions of the new guidance as of March 31, 2010, except for disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the roll forward of
activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which are required for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010. Disclosures are not required for earlier periods presented for
comparative purposes. The new guidance affects disclosures only; and therefore, the adoption had no impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities     

         In June 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance which requires an entity to perform a qualitative analysis to determine whether
it holds a controlling financial interest (i.e., is a primary beneficiary) in a VIE. The analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the entity that has both the power to direct the
activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses, or the right to receive benefits, that could potentially be significant to
the VIE. The
Company adopted the new guidance as of January 1, 2010. The adoption resulted in the consolidation of four VIEs for which the Company concluded it is the primary beneficiary as of
January 1, 2010.   

         Two
of the consolidated VIEs hold investments managed by Allstate Investment Management Company ("AIMCO"), a subsidiary of the Company. Consolidation as of January 1, 2010
resulted in an increase in total assets of $696 million, an increase in total liabilities of $679 million, an increase in retained income of $7 million and an increase in
noncontrolling interest of $10 million. During the first quarter of 2010, the Company sold substantially all its variable   

  137  

interests
in these two VIEs. As a result, the Company deconsolidated the VIEs as of March 26, 2010. The Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects
the effect of the consolidation for the portion of the year the Company was the primary beneficiary, which was not material.   

         The
adoption also resulted in the consolidation of two insurance company affiliates, Allstate Texas Lloyds and Allstate County Mutual Insurance Company, that underwrite homeowners and
auto insurance policies, respectively, and reinsure all of their net business to AIC. Consolidation as of January 1, 2010 resulted in an increase in total assets of $38 million, an
increase in total liabilities of $34 million, an increase in retained income of $3 million and an increase in unrealized net capital gains and losses of $1 million.   

         In
the normal course of investing activities, the Company invests in variable interests issued by VIEs. These variable interests include structured investments such as RMBS, CMBS and ABS
as well as limited partnerships, special purpose entities and trusts. For these variable interests, the Company concluded it is not the primary beneficiary due to the amount of the Company's interest
in the VIEs and the Company's lack of power to direct the activities that are most significant to the economic performance of the VIEs. The Company's maximum exposure to loss on these interests is
limited to the amount of the Company's investment, including future funding commitments, as applicable.   

    Embedded Credit Derivatives Scope Exception     

         In March 2010, the FASB issued accounting guidance clarifying the scope exception for embedded credit derivative features, including
those in certain collateralized debt obligations and synthetic collateralized debt obligations. Embedded credit derivative features related to the transfer of credit risk that is only in the form of
subordination of one financial instrument to another continue to qualify for the scope exception. Other embedded credit derivative features must be analyzed for potential bifurcation and separate
accounting as a derivative, with periodic changes in fair value recorded in net income. The adoption of the new guidance as of July 1, 2010 resulted in the bifurcation of the credit default
swaps embedded in synthetic collateralized debt obligations purchased after January 1, 2007, and the related net unrealized capital losses were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
income to retained income. The cumulative effect of adoption, net of related DAC, DSI and tax adjustments, was a $19 million increase in unrealized net capital gains and losses, a
$9 million decrease in total assets and a $28 million decrease in retained income.   

    Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses     

         In July 2010, the FASB issued guidance requiring expanded disclosures relating to the credit quality of financing receivables and the
related allowances for credit losses. The new guidance requires a greater level of disaggregated information, as well as additional disclosures about credit quality indicators, past due information
and modifications of its financing receivables. The new guidance is effective for reporting periods ending after December 15, 2010, except for disclosures related to troubled debt
restructurings which have been deferred until reporting periods ending after December 15, 2011. The new guidance affects disclosures only; and therefore, the adoption as of December 31,
2010 had no impact on the Company's results of operations or financial position.   

    Pending accounting standards     

    Consolidation Analysis Considering Investments Held through Separate Accounts     

         In April 2010, the FASB issued guidance clarifying that an insurer is not required to combine interests in investments held in a
qualifying separate account with its interests in the same investments held in the general account when performing a consolidation evaluation. The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim
periods beginning after December 15, 2010 with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or
financial position.   

    Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts     

         In October 2010, the FASB issued guidance modifying the definition of the types of costs incurred by insurance entities that can be
capitalized in the acquisition of new and renewal contracts. The guidance specifies that the costs must be based on successful efforts. The guidance also specifies that advertising costs only should
be included as deferred acquisition costs if the direct-response advertising accounting criteria are met. The new guidance is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011
and should be applied prospectively, with retrospective application permitted. The Company is in process of evaluating the impact of adoption on the Company's results of operations and financial
position.   

  138  

Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations     

         In December 2010, the FASB issued disclosure guidance for entities that enter into business combinations that are material. The
guidance specifies that if an entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose proforma revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination that
occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The guidance expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include a
description of the nature and amount of material, nonrecurring pro forma adjustments directly attributable to the business combination. The guidance is effective prospectively for business
combinations entered into on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt the
guidance for any business combinations entered into on or after January 1, 2011.   

   3.    Supplemental Cash Flow Information     

         Non-cash investment exchanges, including modifications of certain mortgage loans, fixed income securities, limited partnerships and other investments,
as well as mergers completed with equity securities, totaled $664 million, $485 million and $37 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

         Liabilities
for collateral received in conjunction with the Company's securities lending activities were $461 million, $449 million and $320 million as of
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and are reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Obligations to return cash
collateral for over-the-counter ("OTC") derivatives were $23 million, $209 million and $20 million as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, and are reported in other liabilities and accrued expenses or other investments. The accompanying cash flows are included in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows along with the activities resulting from management of the proceeds, which for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

4.    Investments     

    Fair values     

         The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value for fixed income securities are as follows:   

139  

Scheduled maturities     

         The scheduled maturities for fixed income securities are as follows as of December 31, 2010:   

Actual maturities may differ from those scheduled as a result of prepayments by the issuers. Because of the potential for prepayment on RMBS and
ABS, they are not categorized by contractual maturity. CMBS are categorized by contractual maturity because they generally are not subject to prepayment risk.   

Net investment income     

         Net investment income for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

140  

Realized capital gains and losses     

         Realized capital gains and losses by asset type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Realized capital gains and losses by transaction type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Gross gains of $819 million, $1.21 billion and $718 million and gross losses of $435 million, $373 million and
$485 million were realized on sales of fixed income securities during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

         Other-than-temporary
impairment losses by asset type for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

The total amount of other-than-temporary impairment losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income at the time
of impairment for fixed income securities as of December 31, which were not included in earnings, are presented in the following table. The amount excludes $322 million and
$192 million as of December 31, 2010 and   

  141  

2009,
respectively, of net unrealized gains related to changes in valuation of the fixed income securities subsequent to the impairment measurement date.   

Rollforwards of the cumulative credit losses recognized in earnings for fixed income securities held as of December 31 are as follows:   

($ in millions)    
     
   2010    
     
   2009    

Beginning balance  
     
  $  
  (1,187  
  )  
  $  

Beginning balance of cumulative credit loss for securities held as of April 1, 2009  

(1,357  
  )  

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle  

81  

Additional credit loss for securities previously other-than-temporarily impaired  

(314  
  )  
     
  (136  
  )  

Additional credit loss for securities not previously other-than-temporarily impaired  

(312  
  )  
     
  (518  
  )  

Reduction in credit loss for securities disposed or collected  

638  

824  

Reduction in credit loss for securities the Company has made the decision to sell or more likely than not will be required to sell  

43  

Change in credit loss due to accretion of increase in cash flows  

5  

Ending balance  
     
  $  
  (1,046  
  )  
  $  
  (1,187  
  )  

The Company uses its best estimate of future cash flows expected to be collected from the fixed income security, discounted at the security's
original or current effective rate, as appropriate, to calculate a recovery value and determine whether a credit loss exists. The determination of cash flow estimates is inherently subjective and
methodologies may vary depending on facts and circumstances specific to the security. All reasonably available information relevant to the collectability of the security, including past events,
current conditions, and reasonable and supportable assumptions and forecasts, are considered when developing the estimate of cash flows expected to be collected. That information generally includes,
but is not limited to, the remaining payment terms of the security, prepayment speeds, foreign exchange rates, the financial condition and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer, expected
defaults, expected recoveries, the value of underlying collateral, vintage, geographic concentration, available reserves or escrows, current subordination levels, third party guarantees and other
credit enhancements. Other information, such as industry analyst reports and forecasts, sector credit ratings, financial condition of the bond insurer for insured fixed income securities, and other
market data relevant to the realizability of contractual cash flows, may also be considered. The estimated fair value of collateral will be used
to estimate recovery value if the Company determines that the security is dependent on the liquidation of collateral for ultimate settlement. If the estimated recovery value is less than the amortized
cost of the security, a credit loss exists and an other-than-temporary impairment for the difference between the estimated recovery value and amortized cost is recorded in
earnings. The portion of the unrealized loss related to factors other than credit remains classified in accumulated other comprehensive income. If the Company determines that the fixed income security
does not have sufficient cash flow or other information to estimate a recovery value for the security, the Company may conclude that the entire decline in fair value is deemed to be credit related and
the loss is recorded in earnings.   

  142  

Unrealized net capital gains and losses     

         Unrealized net capital gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows:   

(1)     Unrealized
net capital gains and losses for fixed income securities as of December 31, 2010 comprises $(293) million related to
unrealized net capital losses on fixed income securities with OTTI and $1.12 billion related to other unrealized net capital gains and losses.       (2)     Included
in the fair value of derivative instruments are $2 million classified as assets and $19 million classified as
liabilities.       (3)     The
insurance reserves adjustment represents the amount by which the reserve balance would increase if the net unrealized gains in the
applicable product portfolios were realized and reinvested at current lower interest rates, resulting in a premium deficiency. Although the Company evaluates premium deficiencies on the combined
performance of life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, the adjustment primarily relates to structured settlement annuities with life contingencies, in addition to annuity
buy-outs and certain payout annuities with life contingencies.       (4)     The
DAC and DSI adjustment balance represents the amount by which the amortization of DAC and DSI would increase or decrease if the unrealized
gains or losses in the respective product portfolios were realized.    

(1)     Unrealized
net capital gains and losses for fixed income securities as of December 31, 2009 comprises $(679) million related to
unrealized net capital losses on fixed income securities with OTTI and $(1.80) billion related to other unrealized net capital gains and losses.       (2)     Included
in the fair value of derivative instruments are $(2) million classified as assets and $18 million classified as liabilities.    

143  

Change in unrealized net capital gains and losses     

         The change in unrealized net capital gains and losses for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Portfolio monitoring     

         The Company has a comprehensive portfolio monitoring process to identify and evaluate each fixed income and equity security whose
carrying value may be other-than-temporarily impaired.   

         For
each fixed income security in an unrealized loss position, the Company assesses whether management with the appropriate authority has made the decision to sell or whether it is more
likely than not the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost basis for reasons such as liquidity, contractual or regulatory purposes. If a security meets
either of these criteria, the security's decline in fair value is considered other than temporary and is recorded in earnings.   

         If
the Company has not made the decision to sell the fixed income security and it is not more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the fixed income security before
recovery of its amortized cost basis, the Company evaluates whether it expects to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. The Company calculates the
estimated recovery value by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows at the security's original or current effective rate, as appropriate, and compares this to the amortized cost of the
security. If the Company does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the fixed income security, the credit loss component of the impairment is
recorded in earnings, with the remaining amount of the unrealized loss related to other factors recognized in other comprehensive income.   

         For
equity securities, the Company considers various factors, including whether it has the intent and ability to hold the equity security for a period of time sufficient to recover its
cost basis. Where the Company lacks the intent and ability to hold to recovery, or believes the recovery period is extended, the equity security's decline in fair value is considered other than
temporary and is recorded in earnings. For equity securities managed by a third party, the Company has contractually retained its decision making authority as it pertains to selling equity securities
that are in an unrealized loss position.   

         The
Company's portfolio monitoring process includes a quarterly review of all securities to identify instances where the fair value of a security compared to its amortized cost (for
fixed income securities) or cost (for equity securities) is below established thresholds. The process also includes the monitoring of other impairment indicators such as ratings, ratings downgrades
and payment defaults. The securities identified, in addition to other securities for which the Company may have a concern, are evaluated for potential other-than-temporary
impairment using all reasonably available information relevant to the collectability or recovery of the security. Inherent in the Company's evaluation of other-than-temporary
impairment for these fixed income and equity securities are assumptions and estimates about the financial condition and future earnings potential of the issue or issuer. Some of the factors considered
in evaluating whether a decline in fair value is other than temporary are: 1) the financial condition, near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer,
including relevant
industry specific market conditions and trends, geographic location and implications of rating agency actions and offering prices; 2) the specific reasons that a security is in an unrealized
loss position, including overall market conditions which could affect liquidity; and 3) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than amortized cost or cost.   

  144  

The following table summarizes the gross unrealized losses and fair value of fixed income and equity securities by the length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous
unrealized loss position.   

(1)     Gross
unrealized losses resulting from factors other than credit on fixed income securities with other-than-temporary
impairments for which the Company has recorded a credit loss in earnings total $10 million for the less than 12 month category and $408 million for the 12 months or greater
category as of December 31, 2010 and $20 million for the less than 12 month category and $729 million for the 12 months or greater category as of December 31,
2009.    

As of December 31, 2010, $1.12 billion of unrealized losses are related to securities with an unrealized loss position less than 20%
of amortized cost or cost, the degree of which suggests that these securities do not pose a high risk of being other-than-temporarily impaired. Of the $1.12 billion,
$853 million are related to unrealized losses on investment grade fixed income securities. Investment grade is defined as a security having a rating of Aaa, Aa, A or Baa from Moody's, a rating
of AAA, AA, A or BBB from Standard   Poor's ("S P"), Fitch, Dominion or Realpoint, a rating of aaa, aa, a or bbb from A.M. Best, or a comparable internal rating if an externally provided
rating is not available. Unrealized losses on investment grade securities are principally related to widening credit spreads or rising interest rates since the time of initial purchase.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, the remaining $1.37 billion of unrealized losses are related to securities in unrealized loss positions greater than or equal to 20% of amortized
cost or cost. Investment grade fixed income securities comprising $498 million of these unrealized losses were evaluated based on factors such as expected cash flows and the financial   

  145  

condition
and near-term and long-term prospects of the issue or issuer and were determined to have adequate resources to fulfill contractual obligations. Of the
$1.37 billion, $868 million are related to below investment grade fixed income securities and $11 million are related to equity securities. Of these amounts, $794 million
of the below investment grade fixed income securities had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of twelve or more consecutive months as of December 31, 2010. Unrealized losses on
below investment grade securities are principally related to RMBS, CMBS and ABS and were the result of wider credit spreads resulting from higher risk premiums since the time of initial purchase,
largely due to macroeconomic conditions and credit market deterioration, including the impact of lower real estate valuations.   

         RMBS,
CMBS and ABS in an unrealized loss position were evaluated based on actual and projected collateral losses relative to the securities' positions in the respective securitization
trusts, security specific expectations of cash flows, and credit ratings. This evaluation also takes into consideration credit enhancement, measured in terms of (i) subordination from other
classes of securities in the trust that are contractually obligated to absorb losses before the class of security the Company owns, (ii) the expected impact of other structural features
embedded in the securitization trust beneficial to the class of securities the Company owns, such as overcollateralization and excess spread, and (iii) for RMBS and ABS in an unrealized loss
position, credit enhancements from reliable bond insurers, where applicable. Municipal bonds in an unrealized loss position were evaluated based on the quality of the underlying securities, taking
into consideration credit enhancements from reliable bond insurers, where applicable. Unrealized losses on equity securities are primarily related to equity market fluctuations.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, the Company has not made the decision to sell and it is not more likely than not the Company will be required to sell fixed income securities with
unrealized losses before recovery of the amortized cost basis. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had the intent and ability to hold equity securities with unrealized losses for a period of
time sufficient for them to recover.   

    Limited partnerships     

         As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying value of equity method limited partnership interests totaled $2.47 billion
and $1.64 billion, respectively. The Company recognizes an impairment loss for equity method investments when evidence demonstrates that the loss is other than temporary. Evidence of a loss in
value that is other than temporary may include the absence of an ability to recover the carrying amount of the investment or the inability of the investee to sustain a level of earnings that would
justify the carrying amount of the investment. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company had write-downs related to equity method limited partnership interests of $1 million, $11 million and
$29 million, respectively.   

         As
of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying value for cost method limited partnership interests was $1.35 billion and $1.10 billion, respectively. To determine if
an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, the Company evaluates whether an impairment indicator has occurred in the period that
may have a significant adverse effect on the carrying value of the investment. Impairment indicators may include: significantly reduced valuations of the investments held by the limited partnerships;
actual recent cash flows received being significantly less than expected cash flows; reduced valuations based on financing completed at a lower value; completed sale of a material underlying
investment at a price significantly lower than expected; or any other adverse events since the last financial statements received that might affect the fair value of the investee's capital.
Additionally, the Company's portfolio monitoring process includes a quarterly review of all cost method limited partnerships to identify instances where the net asset value is below established
thresholds for certain periods of time, as well as investments that are performing below expectations, for further impairment consideration. If a cost method limited partnership is
other-than-temporarily impaired, the carrying value is written down to fair value, generally estimated to be equivalent to the reported net asset value of the underlying funds.
The Company had write-downs related to cost method investments in 2010, 2009 and 2008 of $45 million, $297 million and $83 million, respectively.   

    Mortgage loans     

         The Company's mortgage loans are commercial mortgage loans collateralized by a variety of commercial real estate property types located
throughout the United States and totaled, net of valuation allowance, $6.68 billion and $7.94 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Substantially all of the
commercial mortgage loans are non-recourse to the borrower. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of commercial real estate   

  146  

represented
in the Company's mortgage portfolio. No other state represented more than 5% of the portfolio as of December 31.   

The types of properties collateralizing the mortgage loans as of December 31 are as follows:   

The contractual maturities of the mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010, excluding $62 million of mortgage loans in the
process of foreclosure, are as follows:   

Mortgage loans are evaluated for impairment on a specific loan basis through a quarterly credit monitoring process and review of key credit
quality indicators. Mortgage loans are considered impaired when it is probable that the Company will not collect the contractual principal and interest. Valuation allowances are established for
impaired loans to reduce the carrying value to the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell or the present value of the loan's expected future repayment cash flows discounted at the loan's
original effective interest rate. Impaired mortgage loans may not have a valuation allowance when the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell is higher than the carrying value. Mortgage loan
valuation allowances are charged off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.   

         Accrual
of income is suspended for mortgage loans that are in default or when full and timely collection of principal and interest payments is not probable. Cash receipts on mortgage
loans on nonaccrual status are generally recorded as a reduction of carrying value.   

         Debt
service coverage ratio is considered a key credit quality indicator when mortgage loans are evaluated for impairment. Debt service coverage ratio represents the amount of estimated
cash flows from the property available to the borrower to meet principal and interest payment obligations. Debt service coverage ratio estimates are updated annually or more frequently if conditions
are warranted based on the Company's credit monitoring process. The   

  147  

following
table reflects the carrying value of non-impaired fixed rate and variable rate mortgage loans as of December 31, 2010, summarized by debt service coverage ratio
distribution:   

Mortgage loans with a debt service coverage ratio below 1.0 that are not considered impaired primarily relate to instances where the borrower has
the financial capacity to fund the revenue shortfalls from the properties for the foreseeable term, the decrease in cash flows from the properties is considered temporary, or there are other risk
mitigating circumstances such as additional collateral, escrow balances or borrower guarantees.   

         The
net carrying value of impaired mortgage loans as of December 31 is as follows:   

The average balance of impaired loans was $278 million, $327 million and $44 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.   

         The
rollforward of the valuation allowance on impaired mortgage loans for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

Past due mortgage loans carrying value as of December 31, 2010 is as follows:   

Municipal bonds     

         The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of municipal bonds. The following table shows the principal geographic distribution of
municipal bond issuers represented in the Company's portfolio as of December 31. No other state represents more than 5% of the portfolio.   

148  

Concentration of credit risk     

As of December 31, 2010, the Company is not exposed to any credit concentration risk of a single issuer and its affiliates
greater than 10% of the Company's shareholders' equity.   

    Securities loaned     

         The Company's business activities include securities lending programs with third parties, mostly large banks. As of December 31,
2010 and 2009, fixed income securities with a carrying value of $448 million and $434 million, respectively, were on loan under these agreements. In return, the Company receives cash
that it invests and includes in short-term investments and fixed income securities, with an offsetting liability recorded in other liabilities and accrued expenses to account for the
Company's obligation to return the collateral. Interest income on collateral, net of fees, was $2 million in both 2010 and 2009 and $48 million in 2008.   

    Other investment information     

         Included in fixed income securities are below investment grade assets totaling $6.66 billion and $4.98 billion as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, fixed income securities and short-term investments with a carrying value of $281 million were on deposit with regulatory authorities as
required by law.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, the carrying value of fixed income securities that were non-income producing was $35 million.   

    5. Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities     

         Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The hierarchy for inputs used in determining fair value maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by
requiring that observable inputs be used when available. Assets and liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position at fair value are categorized in the fair value hierarchy
based on the observability of inputs to the valuation techniques as follows:   

Level 1:   
     
  Assets and liabilities whose values are based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market that the Company can access.  

Level 2:   
      
   Assets and liabilities whose values are based on the following:  

(a)  
      
   Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets;  

(b)  
      
   Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or  

(c)  
      
   Valuation models whose inputs are observable, directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.  

Level 3:   

Assets and liabilities whose values are based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. Unobservable inputs reflect the
Company's estimates of the assumptions that market participants would use in valuing the assets and liabilities.  

The availability of observable inputs varies by instrument. In situations where fair value is based on internally developed pricing models or
inputs that are unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. The degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is typically greatest for
instruments categorized in Level 3. In many instances, valuation inputs used to measure fair value fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. The category level in the fair value
hierarchy is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Company uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement
date, including during periods of market disruption. In periods of market disruption, the ability to observe prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments.   

         The
Company has two types of situations where investments are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The first is where quotes continue to be received from independent
third-party valuation service providers and all significant inputs are market observable; however, there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset when compared
to normal market activity such that the degree of market observability has declined to a point where categorization as a Level 3 measurement is considered appropriate. The indicators considered
in determining   

  149  

whether
a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for a specific asset has occurred include the level of new issuances in the primary market, trading volume in the secondary market,
the level of credit spreads over historical levels, applicable bid-ask spreads, and price consensus among market participants and other pricing sources.   

The
second situation where the Company classifies securities in Level 3 is where specific inputs significant to the fair value estimation models are not market observable. This
occurs in two primary instances. The first relates to the Company's use of broker quotes. The second relates to auction rate securities ("ARS") backed by student loans for which a key input, the
anticipated date liquidity will return to this market, is not market observable.   

         Certain
assets are not carried at fair value on a recurring basis, including investments such as mortgage loans, limited partnership interests, bank loans and policy loans. Accordingly,
such investments are only included in the fair value hierarchy disclosure when the investment is subject to remeasurement at fair value after initial recognition and the resulting remeasurement is
reflected in the consolidated financial statements. In addition, derivatives embedded in fixed income securities are not disclosed in the hierarchy as free-standing derivatives since they
are presented with the host contracts in fixed income securities. As of December 31, 2010, 74.1% of total assets are measured at fair value and 0.9% of total liabilities are measured at fair
value.   

         In
determining fair value, the Company principally uses the market approach which generally utilizes market transaction data for the same or similar instruments. To a lesser extent, the
Company uses the income approach which involves determining fair values from discounted cash flow methodologies. For the majority of Level 2 and Level 3 valuations, a combination of the
market and income approaches is used.   

    Summary of significant valuation techniques for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis     

   Level 1
measurements    

Fixed income securities:   Comprise U.S. Treasuries. Valuation is based on
unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in active markets that the Company can access.     
            Equity securities:   Comprise actively traded, exchange-listed U.S. and
international equity securities. Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets in active markets that the Company can access.     
            Short-term:   Comprise actively traded money market funds that have
daily quoted net asset values for identical assets that the Company can access.     
            Separate account assets:   Comprise actively traded mutual funds that have daily
quoted net asset values for identical assets that the Company can access. Net asset values for the actively traded mutual funds in which the separate account assets are invested are obtained daily
from the fund managers.    

Level 2
measurements    

Fixed income securities:     

U.S. government and agencies:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are
not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.   

   Municipal:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active,
contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.   

   Corporate, including privately placed:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets
that are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. Also included are privately placed securities valued using a discounted cash flow model that is widely accepted in the
financial services industry and uses market observable inputs and inputs derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data. The primary inputs to the discounted cash flow model
include an interest rate yield curve, as well as published credit spreads for similar assets in markets that are not active that incorporate the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer.   

   Foreign government:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not
active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads.   

   RMBS   U.S. government sponsored entities ("U.S. Agency"), Prime residential mortgage-backed securities ("Prime") and Alt-A residential
mortgage-backed securities ("Alt-A"); ABS   auto and student loans and other:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted
prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, prepayment speeds, collateral performance and credit spreads.   

150  

CMBS:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, contractual
cash flows, benchmark yields, collateral performance and credit spreads.   

   Redeemable preferred stock:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are
not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, underlying stock prices and credit spreads.    

Equity securities:   The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices or
quoted net asset values for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active.     
            Short-term:   The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted
prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields and credit spreads. For certain short-term investments, amortized cost is
used as the best estimate of fair value.     
            Other investments:   Free-standing exchange listed derivatives that
are not actively traded are valued based on quoted prices for identical instruments in markets that are not active.    

OTC
derivatives, including interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, and certain credit default swaps, are valued using models that rely on inputs such as
interest rate yield curves, currency rates, and counterparty credit spreads that are observable for substantially the full term of the contract. The valuation techniques underlying the models are
widely accepted in the financial services industry and do not involve significant judgment.   

Level 3
measurements    

Fixed income securities:     

Municipal:     ARS primarily backed by student loans that have become illiquid due to failures in the auction market are valued using a
discounted cash flow model that is widely accepted in the financial services industry and uses significant non-market observable inputs, including estimates of future coupon rates if
auction failures continue, the anticipated date liquidity will return to the market and illiquidity premium. Also included are municipal bonds that are not rated by third party credit rating agencies
but are rated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC"), and other high-yield municipal bonds. The primary inputs to the valuation of these municipal bonds include
quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets supporting Level 2 fair value measurements, contractual cash flows, benchmark
yields and credit spreads.   

   Corporate, including privately placed:     Primarily valued based on non-binding broker quotes. Also included are equity-indexed
notes which are valued using a discounted cash flow model that is widely accepted in the financial services industry and uses significant non-market observable inputs, such as volatility.
Other inputs include an interest rate yield curve, as well as published credit spreads for similar assets that incorporate the credit quality and industry sector of the issuer.   

   Foreign government:     Valued based on non-binding broker quotes.   

   RMBS   Subprime residential mortgage-backed securities ("Subprime") and Alt-A:     The primary inputs to the
valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets supporting Level 2 fair value measurements, contractual cash
flows, benchmark yields, prepayment speeds, collateral performance and credit spreads. Also included are Subprime and Alt-A securities that are valued based on non-binding
broker quotes. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been experienced in the market for these
securities, Subprime and certain Alt-A securities are categorized as Level 3.   

   CMBS:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that exhibit less liquidity
relative to those markets supporting Level 2 fair value measurements, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, collateral performance and credit spreads. Also included are CMBS that are valued
based on non-binding broker quotes. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been experienced
in the market for these securities, certain CMBS are categorized as Level 3.   

   ABS   Collateralized debt obligations ("CDO"):     Valued based on non-binding broker quotes received from
brokers who are familiar with the investments. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or   

151  

relevant
observable inputs as a result of the decrease in liquidity that has been experienced in the market for these securities, all CDO are categorized as Level 3.   

   ABS   student loans and other:     The primary inputs to the valuation include quoted prices for identical or similar assets
in markets that exhibit less liquidity relative to those markets supporting Level 2 fair value measurements, contractual cash flows, benchmark yields, prepayment speeds, collateral performance
and credit spreads. Also included are ABS that are valued based on non-binding broker quotes. Due to the reduced availability of actual market prices or relevant observable inputs as a
result of the decrease in liquidity that has been experienced in the market for these securities, certain ABS are categorized as Level 3.    

Other investments:   Certain OTC derivatives, such as interest rate caps and
floors, certain credit default swaps and OTC options (including swaptions), are valued using models that are widely accepted in the financial services industry. These are categorized as Level 3
as a result of the significance of non-market observable inputs such as volatility. Other primary inputs include interest rate yield curves and credit spreads.     
            Contractholder funds:   Derivatives embedded in certain life and annuity contracts
are valued internally using models widely accepted in the financial services industry that determine a single best estimate of fair value for the embedded derivatives within a block of contractholder
liabilities. The models primarily use stochastically determined cash flows based on the contractual elements of embedded derivatives, projected option cost and applicable market data, such as interest
rate yield curves and equity index volatility assumptions. These are categorized as Level 3 as a result of the significance of non-market observable inputs.    

Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis     

         Mortgage loans written-down to fair value in connection with recognizing impairments are valued based on the fair value of
the underlying collateral less costs to sell. Limited partnership interests written-down to fair value in connection with recognizing other-than-temporary
impairments are valued using net asset values.   

  152  

The following table summarizes the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2010:   

(1)     Includes
$111 million of mortgage loans and $9 million of limited partnership interests written-down to fair value
in connection with recognizing other-than-temporary impairments.    
  153  

The following table summarizes the Company's assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as
of December 31, 2009:   

(1)     Includes
$211 million of mortgage loans and $24 million of limited partnership interests written-down to fair value
in connection with recognizing other-than-temporary impairments.    
  154  

The following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value on a recurring basis during the year
ended December 31, 2010.   

(1)     The
effect to net income totals $(860) million and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows:
$(901) million in realized capital gains and losses, $73 million in net investment income, $1 million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $31 million in life
and annuity contract benefits.       (2)     Comprises
$74 million of assets and $95 million of liabilities.    

         Transfers between level categorizations may occur due to changes in the availability of market observable inputs, which generally are caused by
changes in market conditions such as liquidity, trading volume or bid-ask spreads. Transfers between level categorizations may also occur due to changes in the valuation source. For
example, in situations where a fair value quote is not provided by the Company's independent third-party valuation service provider and as a result the price is stale or has been replaced with a
broker quote, the security is transferred into Level 3. Transfers in and out of level categorizations are reported as having occurred at the beginning of the quarter in which the transfer
occurred. Therefore, for all transfers into Level 3, all realized and changes in unrealized gains and losses in the quarter of transfer are reflected in the Level 3 rollforward table.   

         There
were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during 2010.   

         During
2010, certain CMBS and ABS were transferred into Level 2 from Level 3 as a result of increased liquidity in the market and the availability of market observable
quoted prices for similar assets. When transferring these securities into Level 2, the Company did not change the source of fair value estimates or modify the estimates received from
independent third-party valuation service providers or the internal valuation approach. Accordingly, for securities included within this group, there was no change in fair value in conjunction with
the transfer resulting in a realized or unrealized gain or loss.   

         Transfers
into Level 3 during 2010, including those related to Corporate fixed income securities, included situations where a fair value quote was not provided by the Company's
independent third-party valuation service provider and as a result the price was stale or had been replaced with a broker quote resulting in the security being classified as Level 3. Transfers
out of Level 3 during 2010, including those related to Corporate fixed income securities, included situations where a broker quote was used in the prior period and a fair value quote became
available from the Company's independent third-party valuation service provider in the current period. A quote utilizing the new pricing source was   

  155  

not
available as of the prior period, and any gains or losses related to the change in valuation source for individual securities were not significant.   

         Transfers
into Level 3 during 2010 also included derivatives embedded in equity-indexed life and annuity contracts due to refinements in the valuation modeling resulting in an
increase in significance of non-market observable inputs.   

         The
following table provides the total gains and (losses) included in net income during 2010 for Level 3 assets and liabilities still held as of December 31, 2010.   

($ in millions)    

Assets   

Fixed income securities:  

Municipal  
     
  $  
  (33  
  )  

Corporate  

40  

RMBS  

(292  
  )  

CMBS  

(28  
  )  

ABS  

60  

Total fixed income securities  

(253  
  )  

Equity securities  

Other investments:  

(3  
  )  

Free-standing derivatives, net  

(61  
  )  

Other assets  

(1  
  )  

Total recurring Level 3 assets   
     
  $  
  (318  
  )  

Liabilities   

Contractholder funds:  

Derivatives embedded in life and annuity contracts  
     
  $  
  (31  
  )  

Total recurring Level 3 liabilities   
     
  $  
  (31  
  )  

The amounts in the table above represent gains and losses included in net income during 2010 for the period of time that the asset or liability
was determined to be in Level 3. These gains and losses total $(349) million in 2010 and are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows: $(402) million in
realized capital gains and losses, $86 million in net investment income, $2 million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $31 million in life and annuity contract
benefits.   

  156  

The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value on a recurring basis during the year ended December 31, 2009.   

(1)     The
effect to net income totals $(627) million and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows:
$(889) million in realized capital gains and losses, $111 million in net investment income, $(3) million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $(148) million in life
and annuity contract benefits.       (2)     Comprises
$146 million of assets and $91 million of liabilities.       (3)     The
amounts represent gains and losses included in net income for the period of time that the asset or liability was determined to be in
Level 3. These gains and losses total $(226) million and are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows: $(486) million in realized capital gains and losses,
$106 million in net investment income, $(6) million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $(148) million in life and annuity contract benefits.    
  157  

The following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 assets and liabilities held at fair value on a recurring basis during the year
ended December 31, 2008.   

(1)     The
effect to net income totals $(2.79) billion and is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows: $(2.65) billion in
realized capital gains and losses, $134 million in net investment income, $6 million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $270 million in life and annuity contract
benefits.       (2)     Comprises
$13 million of assets and $114 million of liabilities.       (3)     The
amounts represent gains and losses included in net income for the period of time that the asset or liability was determined to be in
Level 3. These gains and losses total $(1.98) billion and are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as follows: $(1.81) billion in realized capital gains and losses,
$103 million in net investment income, $1 million in interest credited to contractholder funds and $270 million in life and annuity contract benefits.    

Presented below are the carrying values and fair value estimates of financial instruments not carried at fair value.   

Financial assets     

The fair value of mortgage loans is based on discounted contractual cash flows or, if the loans are impaired due to credit reasons, the fair value
of collateral less costs to sell. Risk adjusted discount rates are selected using current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar characteristics, using similar types of
properties as   

  158  

collateral.
The fair value of limited partnership interests accounted for on the cost basis is determined using reported net asset values of the underlying funds. The fair value of bank loans, which
are reported in other investments on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, are based on broker quotes from brokers familiar with the loans and current market conditions.   

Financial liabilities     

The fair value of contractholder funds on investment contracts is based on the terms of the underlying contracts utilizing prevailing market rates
for similar contracts adjusted for the Company's own credit risk. Deferred annuities included in contractholder funds are valued using discounted cash flow models which incorporate market value
margins, which are based on the cost of holding economic capital, and the Company's own credit risk. Immediate annuities without life contingencies and fixed rate funding agreements are valued at the
present value of future benefits using market implied interest rates which include the Company's own credit risk.   

         The
fair value of long-term debt is based on market observable data (such as the fair value of the debt when traded as an asset) or, in certain cases, is determined using
discounted cash flow calculations based on current interest rates for instruments with comparable terms and considers the Company's own credit risk. The liability for collateral is valued at carrying
value due to its short-term nature.   

6. Derivative Financial Instruments and Off-balance-sheet Financial Instruments     

         The Company primarily uses derivatives for risk management, to partially mitigate potential adverse impacts from changes in
risk-free interest rates, negative equity market valuations and increases in credit spreads, and asset replication. In addition, the Company has derivatives embedded in
non-derivative host contracts that are required to be separated from the host contracts and accounted for at fair value. With the exception of non-hedge derivatives used for
asset replication and non-hedge embedded derivatives, all of the Company's derivatives are evaluated for their ongoing effectiveness as either accounting hedge or non-hedge
derivative financial instruments on at least a quarterly basis. The Company does not use derivatives for trading purposes. Non-hedge accounting is generally used for "portfolio" level
hedging strategies where the terms of the individual hedged items do not meet the strict homogeneity requirements to permit the application of hedge accounting.   

         Property-Liability
uses interest rate swaption contracts and exchange traded options on interest rate futures to offset potential declining fixed income market values resulting from
potential rising interest rates. Property-Liability also uses interest rate swaps to mitigate municipal bond interest rate risk within the municipal bond portfolio. Exchange traded equity put options
are utilized by Property-Liability for overall equity portfolio protection from significant declines in equity market values below a targeted level. Equity index futures are used by Property-Liability
to offset valuation losses in the equity portfolio during periods of declining equity market values. Credit default swaps are typically used to mitigate the credit risk within the Property-Liability
fixed income portfolio.   

         Portfolio
duration management is a risk management strategy that is principally employed by Property-Liability wherein, depending on the current portfolio duration relative to a
designated target and the expectations of future interest rate movements, financial futures and interest rate swaps are utilized to change the duration of the portfolio in order to offset the economic
effect that interest rates would otherwise have on the fair value of its fixed income securities.   

Property-Liability
uses futures to hedge the market risk related to deferred compensation liability contracts and forward contracts to hedge foreign currency risk associated with holding
foreign currency denominated investments and foreign operations.   

         Allstate
Financial uses foreign currency swaps primarily to reduce the foreign currency risk associated with issuing foreign currency denominated funding agreements and holding foreign
currency denominated investments. Credit default swaps are also typically used to mitigate the credit risk within the Allstate Financial fixed income portfolio.   

  159  

Asset-liability
management is a risk management strategy that is principally employed by Allstate Financial to balance the respective interest-rate sensitivities of its
assets and liabilities. Depending upon the attributes of the assets acquired and liabilities issued, derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors, swaptions and futures are
utilized to change the interest rate characteristics of existing assets and liabilities to ensure the relationship is maintained within specified ranges and to reduce exposure to rising or falling
interest rates. Allstate Financial uses financial futures and interest rate swaps to hedge anticipated asset purchases and liability issuances and futures and options for hedging the equity exposure
contained in its equity indexed life and annuity product contracts that offer equity returns to contractholders. In addition, Allstate Financial uses interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk
inherent in funding agreements.   

         When
derivatives meet specific criteria, they may be designated as accounting hedges and accounted for as fair value, cash flow, foreign currency fair value or foreign currency cash flow
hedges. Allstate Financial designates certain of its interest rate and foreign currency swap contracts and certain investment risk transfer reinsurance agreements as fair value hedges when the hedging
instrument is highly effective in offsetting the risk of changes in the fair value of the hedged item. Allstate Financial designates certain of its foreign currency swap contracts as cash flow hedges
when the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting the exposure of variations in cash flows for the hedged risk that could affect net income. Amounts are reclassified to net investment
income or realized capital gains and losses as the hedged item affects net income.   

         Asset
replication refers to the "synthetic" creation of assets through the use of derivatives and primarily investment grade host bonds to replicate securities that are either
unavailable in the cash markets or more economical to acquire in synthetic form. The Company replicates fixed income securities using a combination of a credit default swap and one or more highly
rated fixed income securities to synthetically replicate the economic characteristics of one or more cash market securities. The Company also creates "synthetic" exposure to equity markets through the
use of exchange traded equity index future contracts and an investment grade host bond.   

         The
Company's primary embedded derivatives are conversion options in fixed income securities, which provide the Company with the right to convert the instrument into a predetermined
number of shares of common stock; equity options in Allstate Financial life and annuity product contracts, which provide equity returns to contractholders; equity-indexed notes containing equity call
options, which provide a coupon payout that is determined using one or more equity-based indices; and credit default swaps in synthetic collateralized debt obligations, which provide enhanced coupon
rates as a result of selling credit protection.   

         The
notional amounts specified in the contracts are used to calculate the exchange of contractual payments under the agreements and are generally not representative of the potential for
gain or loss on these agreements. However, the notional amounts specified in credit default swaps where the Company has sold credit protection represent the maximum amount of potential loss, assuming
no recoveries.   

         Fair
value, which is equal to the carrying value, is the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the derivative contracts at the reporting date. The carrying
value amounts for OTC derivatives are further adjusted for the effects, if any, of legally enforceable master netting agreements and are presented on a net basis, by counterparty agreement, in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. For certain exchange traded derivatives, the exchange requires margin deposits as well as daily cash settlements of margin accounts. As of
December 31, 2010, the Company pledged $37 million of securities and cash in the form of margin deposits.   

         For
those derivatives which qualify for fair value hedge accounting, net income includes the changes in the fair value of both the derivative instrument and the hedged risk, and
therefore reflects any hedging ineffectiveness. For cash flow hedges, gains and losses are amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income and are
reported in net income in the same period the forecasted transactions being hedged impact net income. For embedded derivatives in fixed income securities, net income includes the change in fair value
of the embedded derivative and accretion income related to the host instrument. For non-hedge derivatives, net income includes changes in fair value and accrued periodic settlements, when
applicable.   

  160  

The following table provides a summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as well as their reporting location in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Position as of December 31, 2010.   

(1)     Volume
for OTC derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded derivatives is represented by the
number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)
       (2)     In
addition to the number of contracts presented in the table, the Company held 2,768 stock rights and 1,379,932 stock warrants. Stock
warrants can be converted to cash upon sale of those instruments or exercised for shares of common stock.    

161  

(1)     Volume
for OTC derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded derivatives is represented by the
number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)    

162  

The following table provides a summary of the volume and fair value positions of derivative instruments as well as their reporting location in the
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31, 2009.   

(1)     Volume
for OTC derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded derivatives is represented by the
number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)
       (2)     In
addition to the number of contracts presented in the table, the Company held 101,255 stock rights and 1,352,432 stock warrants. Stock
rights and stock warrants can be converted to cash upon sale of those instruments or exercised for shares of common stock.    

163  

(1)     Volume
for OTC derivative contracts is represented by their notional amounts. Volume for exchange traded derivatives is represented by the
number of contracts, which is the basis on which they are traded. (n/a = not applicable)    

164  

The following table provides a summary of the impacts of the Company's foreign currency contracts in cash flow hedging relationships in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations and the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position for the years ended December 31. Amortization of net gains from accumulated other comprehensive
income related to cash flow hedges is expected to be $2 million during the next twelve months.   

($ in millions)      Effective portion

2010    
     
   2009    

Gain (loss) recognized in OCI on derivatives during the period  
     
  $  
  3  
     
  $  
  (35  
  )  

Loss recognized in OCI on derivatives during the term of the hedging relationship  

(22  
  )  
     
  (23  
  )  

Gain reclassified from AOCI into income (net investment income)  

2  

Gain (loss) reclassified from AOCI into income (realized capital gains and losses)  

2  

(3  
  )  

Ineffective portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing   

Gain recognized in income on derivatives (realized capital gains and losses)  

For cash flow hedges, unrealized net pre-tax gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income were $(22) million
and $(23) million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The net pre-tax changes in accumulated other comprehensive income due to cash flow hedges were $1 million,
$(34) million and $44 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

         The
following tables present gains and losses from valuation, settlements and hedge ineffectiveness reported on derivatives used in fair value hedging relationships and derivatives not
designated as accounting hedging instruments in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31.   

165  

The hedge ineffectiveness reported in realized capital gains and losses amounted to gains of $7 million in 2010 and losses of
$1 million and $4 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

The
following tables provide a summary of the changes in fair value of the Company's fair value hedging relationships in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31.   

($ in millions)    
     
   2010    

Gain (loss) on derivatives    
     
   Gain (loss) on hedged risk    

Location of gain or (loss) recognized 
    in net income on derivatives

Interest 
rate 
contracts    
     
   Foreign 
currency   
interest rate 
contracts    
     
   Contractholder 
funds    
     
   Investments    

Interest credited to contractholder funds  
     
  $  

$  
  (48  
  )  
  $  
  48  
     
  $  

Net investment income  

(33  
  )  

33  

Realized capital gains and losses  

9  

(2  
  )  

Total  
     
  $  
  (24  
  )  
  $  
  (50  
  )  
  $  
  48  
     
  $  
  33  

2009    

Gain (loss) on derivatives    
     
   Gain (loss) on hedged risk    

Location of gain or (loss) recognized 
    in net income on derivatives

Interest 
rate 
contracts    
     
   Foreign 
currency   
interest rate 
contracts    
     
   Contractholder 
funds    
     
   Investments    

Interest credited to contractholder funds  
     
  $  
  (26  
  )  
  $  
  39  
     
  $  
  (13  
  )  
  $  

Net investment income  

164  

(164  
  )  

Realized capital gains and losses  

12  

(9  
  )  

Total  
     
  $  
  150  
     
  $  
  30  
     
  $  
  (13  
  )  
  $  
  (164  
  )  

The Company manages its exposure to credit risk by utilizing highly rated counterparties, establishing risk control limits, executing legally
enforceable master netting agreements ("MNAs") and obtaining collateral where appropriate.   

  166  

The
Company uses MNAs for OTC derivative transactions, including interest rate swap, foreign currency swap, interest rate cap, interest rate floor, credit default swap, forward and certain option
agreements (including swaptions). These agreements permit either party to net payments due for transactions covered by the agreements. Under the provisions of the agreements, collateral is either
pledged or obtained when certain predetermined exposure limits are exceeded. As of December 31, 2010, counterparties pledged $58 million in cash and securities to the Company, and the
Company pledged $193 million in cash and securities to counterparties which includes $171 million of collateral posted under MNAs for contracts containing
credit-risk-contingent provisions that are in a liability position and $22 million of collateral posted under MNAs for contracts without
credit-risk-contingent liabilities. The Company has not incurred any losses on derivative financial instruments due to counterparty nonperformance. Other derivatives, including
futures and certain option contracts, are traded on organized exchanges which require margin deposits and guarantee the execution of trades, thereby mitigating any potential credit risk.   

         Counterparty
credit exposure represents the Company's potential loss if all of the counterparties concurrently fail to perform under the contractual terms of the contracts and all
collateral, if any, becomes worthless. This exposure is measured by the fair value of OTC derivative contracts with a positive fair value at the reporting date reduced by the effect, if any, of
legally enforceable master netting agreements.   

         The
following table summarizes the counterparty credit exposure as of December 31 by counterparty credit rating as it relates to interest rate swap, foreign currency swap,
interest rate cap, interest rate floor, free-standing credit default swap, forward and certain option agreements (including swaptions).   

(1)     Rating
is the lower of S P or Moody's ratings.       (2)     Only
OTC derivatives with a net positive fair value are included for each counterparty.    

Market risk is the risk that the Company will incur losses due to adverse changes in market rates and prices. Market risk exists for all of the
derivative financial instruments the Company currently holds, as these instruments may become less valuable due to adverse changes in market conditions. To limit this risk, the Company's senior
management has established risk control limits. In addition, changes in fair value of the derivative financial instruments that the Company uses for risk management purposes are generally offset by
the change in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged risk component of the related assets, liabilities or forecasted transactions.   

Certain
of the Company's derivative instruments contain credit-risk-contingent termination events, cross-default provisions and credit support annex agreements.
Credit-risk-contingent termination events allow the counterparties to terminate the derivative on certain dates if AIC's, ALIC's or Allstate Life Insurance Company of New
York's ("ALNY") financial strength credit ratings by Moody's or S P fall below a certain level or in the event AIC, ALIC or ALNY are no longer rated by both Moody's and S P.
Credit-risk-contingent cross-default provisions allow the counterparties to terminate the derivative instruments if the Company defaults by pre-determined threshold
amounts on certain debt instruments.
Credit-risk-contingent credit support annex agreements specify the amount of collateral the Company must post to counterparties based on AIC's, ALIC's or ALNY's financial
strength credit ratings by Moody's or S P, or in the event AIC, ALIC or ALNY are no longer rated by both Moody's and S P.   

  167  

The following summarizes the fair value of derivative instruments with termination, cross-default or collateral credit-risk-contingent features that are in a
liability position as of December 31, as well as the fair value of assets and collateral that are netted against the liability in accordance with provisions within legally enforceable MNAs.   

($ in millions)

2010    
     
   2009    

Gross liability fair value of contracts containing credit-risk-contingent features  
     
  $  
  448  
     
  $  
  429  

Gross asset fair value of contracts containing credit-risk-contingent features and subject to MNAs  

(255  
  )  
     
  (265  
  )  

Collateral posted under MNAs for contracts containing credit-risk-contingent features  

(171  
  )  
     
  (122  
  )  

Maximum amount of additional exposure for contracts with credit-risk-contingent features if all features were triggered concurrently  
     
  $  
  22  
     
  $  
  42  

Credit derivatives   selling protection     

         Free-standing credit default swaps ("CDS") are utilized for selling credit protection against a specified credit event. A
credit default swap is a derivative instrument, representing an agreement between two parties to exchange the credit risk of a specified entity (or a group of entities), or an index based on the
credit risk of a group of entities (all commonly referred to as the "reference entity" or a portfolio of "reference entities"), in return for a periodic premium. In selling protection, CDS are used to
replicate fixed income securities and to complement the cash market when credit exposure to certain issuers is not available or when the derivative alternative is less expensive than the cash market
alternative. CDS typically have a five-year term.   

         The
following table shows the CDS notional amounts by credit rating and fair value of protection sold as of December 31, 2010:   

168  

The following table shows the CDS notional amounts by credit rating and fair value of protection sold as of December 31, 2009:   

In selling protection with CDS, the Company sells credit protection on an identified single name, a basket of names in a
first-to-default ("FTD") structure or a specific tranche of a basket, or credit derivative index ("CDX") that is generally investment grade, and in return receives periodic
premiums through expiration or termination of the agreement. With single name CDS, this premium or credit spread generally corresponds to the difference between the yield on the reference entity's
public fixed maturity cash instruments and swap rates at the time the agreement is executed. With a FTD basket or a tranche of a basket, because of the additional credit risk inherent in a basket of
named reference entities, the premium generally corresponds to a high proportion of the sum of the credit spreads of the names in the basket and the correlation between the names. CDX index is
utilized to take a position on multiple (generally 125) reference entities. Credit events are typically defined as bankruptcy, failure to pay, or restructuring, depending on the nature of the
reference entities. If a credit event occurs, the Company settles with the counterparty, either through physical settlement or cash settlement. In a physical settlement, a reference asset is delivered
by the buyer of protection to the Company, in exchange for cash payment at par, whereas in a cash settlement, the Company pays the difference between par and the prescribed value of the reference
asset. When a credit event occurs in a single
name or FTD basket (for FTD, the first credit event occurring for any one name in the basket), the contract terminates at the time of settlement. When a credit event occurs in a tranche of a basket,
there is no immediate impact to the Company until cumulative losses in the basket exceed the contractual subordination. To date, realized losses have not exceeded the subordination. For CDX index, the
reference entity's name incurring the credit event is removed from the index while the contract continues until expiration. The maximum payout on a CDS is the contract notional amount. A physical
settlement may afford the Company with recovery rights as the new owner of the asset.   

The
Company monitors risk associated with credit derivatives through individual name credit limits at both a credit derivative and a combined cash instrument/credit derivative level. The
ratings of individual names for which protection has been sold are also monitored.   

         In
addition to the CDS described above, the Company's synthetic collateralized debt obligations contain embedded credit default swaps which sell protection on a basket of reference
entities. The synthetic collateralized debt obligations are fully funded; therefore, the Company is not obligated to contribute additional funds when credit events occur related to the reference
entities named in the embedded credit default swaps. The Company's maximum amount at risk equals the amount of its aggregate initial investment in the synthetic collateralized debt obligations.   

    Off-balance-sheet financial instruments     

         The contractual amounts of off-balance-sheet financial instruments as of December 31 are as follows:   

169  

In the preceding table, the contractual amounts represent the amount at risk if the contract is fully drawn upon, the counterparty defaults and
the value of any underlying security becomes worthless. Unless noted otherwise, the Company does not require collateral or other security to support off-balance-sheet financial instruments
with credit risk.   

         Commitments
to invest generally represent commitments to acquire financial interests or instruments. The Company enters into these agreements to allow for additional participation in
certain limited partnership investments. Because the equity investments in the limited partnerships are not actively traded, it is not practical to estimate the fair value of these commitments.   

         Private
placement commitments represent conditional commitments to purchase private placement debt and equity securities at a specified future date. The Company regularly enters into
these agreements in the normal course of business. The fair value of these commitments generally cannot be estimated on the date the commitment is made as the terms and conditions of the underlying
private placement securities are not yet final.   

         Other
loan commitments are agreements to lend to a borrower provided there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. The Company enters into these agreements to
commit to future loan fundings at predetermined interest rates. Commitments generally have fixed or varying expiration dates or other termination clauses. The fair value of these commitments is
insignificant.   

   7.    Reserve for Property-Liability Insurance Claims and Claims Expense     

As described in Note 2, the Company establishes reserves for claims and claims expense ("loss") on reported and unreported claims of insured losses. The
Company's reserving process takes into account known facts and interpretations of circumstances and factors including the Company's experience with similar cases, actual claims paid, historical trends
involving claim payment patterns and pending levels of unpaid claims, loss management programs, product mix and contractual terms, changes in law and regulation, judicial decisions, and economic
conditions. In the normal course of business, the Company may also supplement its claims processes by utilizing third party adjusters, appraisers, engineers, inspectors, and other professionals and
information sources to assess and settle catastrophe and non-catastrophe related claims. The effects of inflation are implicitly considered in the reserving process.   

Because
reserves are estimates of unpaid portions of losses that have occurred, including incurred but not reported ("IBNR") losses, the establishment of appropriate reserves, including
reserves for catastrophes, is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimates. The
highest degree of uncertainty is associated with reserves for losses incurred in the current reporting period as it contains the greatest proportion of losses that have not been reported or settled.
The Company regularly updates its reserve estimates as new information becomes available and as events unfold that may affect the resolution of unsettled claims. Changes in prior year reserve
estimates, which may be material, are reported in property-liability insurance claims and claims expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in the period such changes are determined.   

         Activity
in the reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense is summarized as follows:   

170  

Incurred claims and claims expense represents the sum of paid losses and reserve changes in the calendar year. This expense includes losses from
catastrophes of $2.21 billion, $2.07 billion and $3.34 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, net of reinsurance and other recoveries (see Note 9). In 2008, losses
from catastrophes included $1.31 billion, net of recoveries, related to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav. These estimates include net losses in personal lines auto and property policies and net losses
on commercial policies. Included in 2008 losses from catastrophes are accruals for assessments from the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association ("TWIA") (see Note 13).   

         Catastrophes
are an inherent risk of the property-liability insurance business that have contributed to, and will continue to contribute to, material year-to-year
fluctuations in the Company's results of operations and financial position.   

         The
Company calculates and records a single best reserve estimate for losses from catastrophes, in conformance with generally accepted actuarial standards. As a result, management
believes that no other estimate is better than the recorded amount. Due to the uncertainties involved, including the factors described above, the ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from
recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimates. Accordingly, management believes that it is not practical to develop a meaningful range for any such changes in losses incurred.   

         During
2010, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $179 million primarily due to claim severity
development that was better than expected partially offset by a litigation settlement, net decreases in homeowners reserves of $23 million due to favorable catastrophe reserve reestimates
partially offset by a litigation settlement, and net increases in other reserves of $15 million. Incurred claims and claims expense includes favorable catastrophe loss reestimates of
$163 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries.   

         During
2009, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in homeowners and auto reserves of $168 million and
$57 million, respectively, partially offset by increases in other reserves of $89 million. Incurred claims and claims expense includes favorable catastrophe loss reestimates of
$169 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries, primarily attributable to favorable reserve reestimates from Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and a catastrophe related subrogation recovery.   

         During
2008, incurred claims and claims expense related to prior years was primarily composed of net decreases in auto reserves of $27 million offset by increases in homeowners
reserves of $124 million due to catastrophe loss reestimates, and increases in other reserves of $55 million. The $27 million favorable decreases in auto reserves and
$55 million unfavorable increases in other reserves includes $45 million of IBNR losses reclassified from auto reserves to other reserves to be consistent with the recording of excess
liability policy premiums and losses. Incurred claims and claims expense includes unfavorable catastrophe loss reestimates of $125 million, net of reinsurance and other recoveries, primarily
attributable to increased claim loss and expense reserves for litigation filed in conjunction with a Louisiana deadline for filing suits related to Hurricane Katrina.   

         Management
believes that the reserve for property-liability insurance claims and claims expense, net of reinsurance recoverables, is appropriately established in the aggregate and
adequate to cover the ultimate net cost of reported and unreported claims arising from losses which had occurred by the date of the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position based on available
facts, technology, laws and regulations.   

         For
further discussion of asbestos and environmental reserves, see Note 13.   

   8.    Reserve for Life-Contingent Contract Benefits and Contractholder Funds     

         As of December 31, the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits consists of the following:   

171  

The following table highlights the key assumptions generally used in calculating the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits:   

Product    
     
   Mortality    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Estimation method    

Structured settlement annuities  
     
  U.S. population with projected calendar year improvements; mortality rates adjusted for each impaired life based on reduction in life expectancy  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 1.6% to 9.9%  
     
  Present value of contractually specified future benefits  

Other immediate fixed annuities  
     
  1983 group annuity mortality table with internal modifications; 1983 individual annuity mortality table; Annuity 2000 mortality table with internal modifications; 1983 individual annuity mortality table with internal
modifications  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 0.9% to 11.5%  
     
  Present value of expected future benefits based on historical experience  

Traditional life insurance  
     
  Actual company experience 
plus loading  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 4.0% to 11.3%  
     
  Net level premium reserve method using the Company's withdrawal experience rates  

Accident and health insurance  
     
  Actual company experience 
plus loading  

Unearned premium; additional contract reserves for mortality risk  

Other:  

Variable annuity 
guaranteed minimum 
death benefits  (1)   
     
  100% of Annuity 2000 mortality table  
     
  Interest rate assumptions range from 4.2% to 5.2%  
     
  Projected benefit ratio applied to cumulative assessments  

(1)     In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with The Prudential
Insurance Company of America, a subsidiary of Prudential Financial, Inc. (collectively "Prudential").    

To the extent that unrealized gains on fixed income securities would result in a premium deficiency had those gains actually been realized, a
premium deficiency reserve is recorded for certain immediate annuities with life contingencies. A liability of $41 million is included in the reserve for life-contingent contract
benefits
with respect to this deficiency as of December 31, 2010. The offset to this liability is recorded as a reduction of the unrealized net capital gains included in accumulated other comprehensive
income. The liability was zero as of December 31, 2009.   

         As
of December 31, contractholder funds consist of the following:   

172  

The following table highlights the key contract provisions relating to contractholder funds:   

Product    
     
   Interest rate    
     
   Withdrawal/surrender charges    

Interest-sensitive life insurance  
     
  Interest rates credited range from 0% to 11.5% for equity-indexed life (whose returns are indexed to the S P 500) and 2.0% to 6.0% for all other products  
     
  Either a percentage of account balance or dollar amount grading off generally over 20 years  

Fixed annuities  
     
  Interest rates credited range from 0% to 9.9% for immediate annuities; (8.0)% to 14.0% for equity-indexed annuities (whose returns are indexed to the S P 500); and 0.2% to 8.5% for all other products  
     
  Either a declining or a level percentage charge generally over nine years or less. Additionally, approximately 26.5% of fixed annuities are subject to market value adjustment for discretionary withdrawals  

Funding agreements backing medium-term notes  
     
  Interest rates credited range from 0% to 6.5% (excluding currency-swapped medium-term notes)  
     
  Not applicable  

Other investment contracts:  

Guaranteed minimum income, accumulation and withdrawal benefits on variable annuities  (1)  and secondary guarantees on interest-sensitive life insurance and fixed annuities  
     
  Interest rates used in establishing reserves range from 1.8% to 10.3%  
     
  Withdrawal and surrender charges are based on the terms of the related interest-sensitive life insurance or fixed annuity contract  

Allstate Bank deposits  
     
  Interest rates credited range from 0% to 5.5%  
     
  A percentage of principal balance for time deposits withdrawn prior to maturity  

(1)     In
2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential.    

Contractholder funds include funding agreements held by VIEs issuing medium-term notes. The VIEs are Allstate Life
Funding, LLC, Allstate Financial Global Funding, LLC, Allstate Life Global Funding and Allstate Life Global Funding II, and their primary assets are funding agreements used exclusively
to back medium-term note programs.   

         Contractholder
funds activity for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

The Company offered various guarantees to variable annuity contractholders. Liabilities for variable contract guarantees related to death benefits
are included in the reserve for life-contingent contract benefits and the liabilities related to the income, withdrawal and accumulation benefits are included in contractholder funds in
the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. All liabilities for variable contract guarantees are reported on a gross basis on the balance sheet with a corresponding reinsurance recoverable
asset for those contracts subject to reinsurance. In 2006, the Company disposed of substantially all of its variable annuity business through reinsurance agreements with Prudential.   

  173  

Absent
any contract provision wherein the Company guarantees either a minimum return or account value upon death, a specified contract anniversary date, partial withdrawal or
annuitization, variable annuity and variable life insurance contractholders bear the investment risk that the separate accounts' funds may not meet their stated investment objectives. The account
balances of variable annuities contracts' separate accounts with guarantees included $6.94 billion and $7.93 billion of equity, fixed income and balanced mutual funds and
$1.09 billion and $568 million of money market mutual funds as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

         The
table below presents information regarding the Company's variable annuity contracts with guarantees. The Company's variable annuity contracts may offer more than one type of
guarantee in each contract; therefore, the sum of amounts listed exceeds the total account balances of variable annuity contracts' separate accounts with guarantees.   

(1)     Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum death benefit in excess of the current account balance as of the balance sheet date.      (2)     Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum annuity payments in excess of the current account balance.      (3)     Defined
as the estimated current guaranteed minimum withdrawal balance (initial deposit) in excess of the current account balance as of the
balance sheet date.       (4)     Defined
as the estimated present value of the guaranteed minimum accumulation balance in excess of the current account balance.    

The liability for death and income benefit guarantees is equal to a benefit ratio multiplied by the cumulative contract charges earned, plus
accrued interest less contract benefit payments. The benefit ratio is calculated as the estimated present value of all expected contract benefits divided by the present value of all expected contract
charges. The establishment of reserves for these guarantees requires the projection of future separate account fund performance, mortality, persistency and customer benefit utilization rates. These
assumptions are periodically reviewed and updated. For guarantees related to death benefits, benefits represent the current guaranteed minimum death benefit payments in excess of the current account
balance. For guarantees related to income benefits, benefits represent the present value of the minimum guaranteed annuitization benefits in excess of the current account balance.   

         Projected
benefits and contract charges used in determining the liability for certain guarantees are developed using models and stochastic scenarios that are also used in the development
of estimated expected gross profits. Underlying assumptions for the liability related to income benefits include assumed future annuitization elections based on factors such as the extent of benefit
to the potential annuitant, eligibility conditions and the annuitant's
attained age. The liability for guarantees is re-evaluated periodically, and adjustments are made to the liability balance through a charge or credit to life and annuity contract benefits.   

         Guarantees
related to withdrawal and accumulation benefits are considered to be derivative financial instruments; therefore, the liability for these benefits is established based on its
fair value.   

  174  

The following table summarizes the liabilities for guarantees:   

(1)     Included
in the total liability balance as of December 31, 2009 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $92 million,
variable annuity income benefits of $269 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $66 million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $41 million and other guarantees
of $82 million.       (2)     Included
in the total liability balance as of December 31, 2010 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $85 million,
variable annuity income benefits of $211 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $88 million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $47 million and other guarantees
of $168 million.       (3)     Included
in the total liability balance as of December 31, 2008 are reserves for variable annuity death benefits of $67 million,
variable annuity income benefits of $201 million, variable annuity accumulation benefits of $147 million, variable annuity withdrawal benefits of $119 million and other guarantees
of $67 million.    

175  

9.    Reinsurance     

         The effects of reinsurance on property-liability insurance premiums written and earned and life and annuity premiums and contract charges for the years ended
December 31 are as follows:   

Property-Liability     

         The Company purchases reinsurance after evaluating the financial condition of the reinsurer, as well as the terms and price of
coverage. Developments in the insurance and reinsurance industries have fostered a movement to segregate asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures into separate legal entities
with dedicated capital. Regulatory bodies in certain cases have supported these actions. The Company is unable to determine the impact, if any, that these developments will have on the collectability
of reinsurance recoverables in the future.   

    Property-Liability reinsurance recoverable     

         Total amounts recoverable from reinsurers as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were $2.15 billion and $2.21 billion,
respectively, including $81 million and $72 million, respectively, related to property-liability losses paid by the Company and billed to reinsurers, and $2.07 billion and
$2.14 billion, respectively, estimated by the Company with respect to ceded unpaid losses (including IBNR), which are not billable until the losses are paid.   

With
the exception of the recoverable balances from the Michigan Catastrophic Claim Association ("MCCA"), Lloyd's of London and other industry pools and facilities, the largest
reinsurance recoverable balance the Company had outstanding was $56 million and $77 million from Westport Insurance Corporation (formerly Employers' Reinsurance Company) as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. No other amount due or
estimated to be due from any single property-liability reinsurer was in excess of $37 million as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009.   

         The
allowance for uncollectible reinsurance was $142 million as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009, and is related to the Company's Discontinued Lines and Coverages
segment. In 2010 there were no net recoveries and in 2009 there were $26 million of net recoveries.   

    Industry pools and facilities     

         Reinsurance recoverable on paid and unpaid claims including IBNR as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 includes $1.24 billion
and $1.17 billion, respectively, from the MCCA. The MCCA is a mandatory reinsurance mechanism for personal injury protection losses over a retention level that increases each MCCA fiscal year.
The retention levels are $480 thousand per claim and $460 thousand per claim for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The MCCA is funded by assessments
from member companies who, in turn, can recover assessments from policyholders.   

         Ceded
premiums earned under the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund ("FHCF") agreement were $15 million, $13 million and $26 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Ceded losses incurred include $10 million, $47 million and $28 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company has access to reimbursement provided by the
FHCF   

  176  

for
90% of qualifying personal property losses that exceed its current retention of $70 million for the two largest hurricanes and $23 million for other hurricanes, up to a maximum total
of $272 million effective from June 1, 2010 to May 31, 2011. Reinsurance recoverables include $41 million and $53 million recoverable from the FHCF for qualifying
property losses as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

         Allstate
sells and administers policies as a participant in the National Flood Insurance Program ("NFIP"). The total amounts recoverable as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 were
$10 million and $43 million, respectively. Ceded premiums earned include $306 million, $298 million and $257 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Ceded
losses incurred include $50 million, $111 million and $344 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Under the arrangement, the Federal Government is obligated to pay all
claims.   

    Catastrophe reinsurance     

         The Company has the following catastrophe reinsurance treaties in effect as of December 31, 2010:   

an aggregate excess agreement comprising two contracts (one contract effective June 1, 2009 to May 31, 2011,
and one contract effective June 1, 2010 to May 31, 2012) for Allstate Protection personal lines auto and property business countrywide, except for Florida. The contracts cover losses
from storms named or numbered by the National Weather Service, fires following earthquakes, and California wildfires in excess of $2.00 billion in aggregated losses per contract year. The
contract expiring May 31, 2011 represents 47.5% of the placement or $950 million of the $2.00 billion limit. The contract expiring May 31, 2012, represents the remaining
47.5% of the placement with the Company retaining the option in 2011 to place up to the entire $2.00 billion limit. For the year June 1, 2010 to May 31, 2011, the Company retains
5% of the $2.00 billion reinsurance limit;   

The
Company's multi-peril, California fires following earthquakes, Gulf States, Atlantic States, Texas Hurricane and Kentucky agreements are deemed in place, and losses recoverable under these
agreements, if any, are excluded when determining coverage under the aggregate excess agreement.    

        multi-year reinsurance treaties that cover Allstate Protection personal lines property excess catastrophe
losses for multiple perils in Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania and California effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2013;     
           a Gulf States agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal lines property excess catastrophe losses for storms named
or numbered by the National Weather Service in Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama effective June 1, 2010 to May 31, 2013;     
           an Atlantic States agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal lines property excess catastrophe losses for storms
named or numbered by the National Weather Service in Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware and the District of Columbia effective June 1, 2010 to May 31,
2013;     
           a Texas agreement for additional hurricane coverage for Allstate Protection personal lines property excess catastrophe
losses in the state effective June 18, 2008 to June 17, 2011;     
           a California fires following earthquakes agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal lines property excess
catastrophe losses in California, effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2012;     
           a Kentucky agreement that provides coverage for Allstate Protection personal lines property excess catastrophe losses in
the state for earthquakes and fires following earthquakes effective June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2011;     
           a Pennsylvania agreement that covers Allstate Protection personal lines property excess catastrophe losses for
multi-perils effective June 1, 2009 through May 31, 2012; and     
           Eight separate agreements for Castle Key Insurance Company and its subsidiaries ("Castle Key"), for personal property
excess catastrophe losses in Florida that coordinate coverage with the Company's participation in the FHCF, effective June 1, 2010 to May 31, 2011.    

The
Company ceded premiums earned of $582 million, $616 million and $679 million under catastrophe reinsurance agreements in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

    Asbestos, environmental and other     

         Reinsurance recoverables include $183 million and $190 million from Lloyd's of London as of December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively. Lloyd's of London, through the creation of Equitas Limited, implemented a restructuring plan in 1996 to solidify its capital base and to segregate claims for years prior to 1993.   

  177  

Allstate Financial     

         The Company's Allstate Financial segment reinsures certain of its risks to other insurers primarily under yearly renewable term,
coinsurance, modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld agreements. These agreements result in a passing of the agreed-upon percentage of risk to the reinsurer in exchange
for negotiated reinsurance premium payments. Modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld are similar to coinsurance, except that the cash and investments that support the liability for
contract benefits are not transferred to the assuming company and settlements are made on a net basis between the companies. Allstate Financial cedes 100% of the morbidity risk on substantially all of
its long-term care contracts.   

         For
certain term life insurance policies issued prior to October 2009, Allstate Financial ceded up to 90% of the mortality risk depending on the year of policy issuance under coinsurance
agreements to a pool of fourteen
unaffiliated reinsurers. Effective October 2009, mortality risk on term business is ceded under yearly renewable term agreements under which Allstate Financial cedes mortality in excess of its
retention, which is consistent with how Allstate Financial generally reinsures its permanent life insurance business. The following table summarizes those retention limits by period of policy
issuance.   

In addition, Allstate Financial has used reinsurance to effect the acquisition or disposition of certain blocks of business. Allstate Financial
had reinsurance recoverables of $1.63 billion and $1.51 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, due from Prudential related to the disposal of substantially all of
its variable annuity business that was effected through reinsurance agreements. In 2010, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of $171 million, contract benefits of
$152 million, interest credited to contractholder funds of $29 million, and operating costs and expenses of $31 million were ceded to Prudential. In 2009, life and annuity
premiums and contract charges of $170 million, contract benefits of $44 million, interest credited to contractholder funds of $27 million, and operating costs and expenses of
$28 million were ceded to Prudential. In 2008, life and annuity premiums and contract charges of $238 million, contract benefits of $467 million, interest credited to
contractholder funds of $36 million, and operating costs and expenses of $47 million were ceded to Prudential. In addition, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 Allstate Financial had
reinsurance recoverables of $170 million and $175 million, respectively, due from subsidiaries of Citigroup (Triton Insurance and American Health and Life Insurance), and Scottish Re
(U.S.) Inc. in connection with the disposition of substantially all of the direct response distribution business in 2003.   

         As
of December 31, 2010, the gross life insurance in force was $532.89 billion of which $238.75 billion was ceded to the unaffiliated reinsurers.   

Allstate
Financial's reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid benefits as of December 31 are summarized in the following table.   

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 94% and 93%, respectively, of Allstate Financial's reinsurance recoverables are due from
companies rated A- or better by S P.   

  178  

10.  Deferred Policy Acquisition and Sales Inducement Costs     

         Deferred policy acquisition costs for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     The
adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance on April 1, 2009 resulted in an adjustment to DAC to reverse previously recorded DAC
accretion related to realized capital losses that were reclassified to other comprehensive income upon adoption.       (2)     The
adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance resulted in an adjustment to DAC due to the change in unrealized capital gains and losses that
occurred upon adoption on April 1, 2009 when previously recorded realized capital losses were reclassified to other comprehensive income. The adjustment was recorded as an increase of the DAC
balance and unrealized capital gains and losses.    

179  

DSI activity for Allstate Financial, which primarily relates to fixed annuities and interest-sensitive life contracts, for the years ended
December 31 was as follows:   

(1)     The
adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance on April 1, 2009 resulted in an adjustment to DSI to reverse previously recorded DSI
accretion related to realized capital losses that were reclassified to other comprehensive income upon adoption.       (2)     The
adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance resulted in an adjustment to DSI due to the change in unrealized capital gains and losses that
occurred upon adoption on April 1, 2009 when previously recorded realized capital losses were reclassified to other comprehensive income. The adjustment was recorded as an increase of the DSI
balance and unrealized capital gains and losses.    

11.  Capital Structure     

    Debt outstanding     

         Total debt outstanding as of December 31 consisted of the following:   

(1)     Senior
Notes are subject to redemption at the Company's option in whole or in part at any time at the greater of either 100% of the principal
amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date or the discounted sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest and accrued and unpaid interest
to the redemption date.       (2)     The
Company classifies any borrowings which have a maturity of twelve months or less at inception as short-term debt.    

180  

Total debt outstanding by maturity as of December 31 consisted of the following:   

In May 2009, the Company issued $300 million of 6.20% Senior Notes due 2014 and $700 million of 7.45% Senior Notes due 2019. The
proceeds of this issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including to facilitate the repayment of the $750 million of 7.20% Senior Notes that matured on December 1, 2009.   

         The
Company has outstanding $500 million of Series A 6.50% and $500 million of Series B 6.125% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Junior
Subordinated Debentures (together the "Debentures"). The scheduled maturity dates for the Debentures are May 15, 2057 and May 15, 2037 for Series A and Series B,
respectively, with a final maturity date of May 15, 2067. The Debentures may be redeemed (i) in whole or in part, at any time on or after May 15, 2037 or May 15, 2017 for
Series A and Series B, respectively, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption, or (ii) in certain circumstances, in whole or in part,
prior to May 15, 2037 and May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B, respectively, at their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or, if
greater, a make-whole price.   

         Interest
on the Debentures is payable semi-annually at the stated fixed annual rate to May 15, 2037 and May 15, 2017 for Series A and Series B,
respectively, and then payable quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.12% and 1.935% for Series A and Series B, respectively. The Company may elect at one or
more times to defer payment of interest on the Debentures for one or more consecutive interest periods that do not exceed 10 years. Interest compounds during such deferral periods at the rate
in effect for each period. The interest deferral feature obligates the Company in certain circumstances to issue common stock or certain other types of securities if it cannot otherwise raise
sufficient funds to make the required interest payments. The Company has reserved 75 million shares of its authorized and unissued common stock to satisfy this obligation.   

         In
connection with the issuance of the Debentures, the Company entered into replacement capital covenants. These covenants are not intended for the benefit of the holders of the
Debentures and may not be enforced by them. Rather, they are for the benefit of holders of one or more other designated series of the Company's indebtedness, initially the 6.90% Senior Debentures due
2038. Pursuant to these covenants, the Company has agreed that it will not repay, redeem, or purchase the Debentures on or before May 15, 2067 and May 15, 2047 for Series A and
Series B, respectively, unless, subject to certain limitations, the Company has received proceeds in specified amounts from the issuance of specified securities. These covenants terminate in
2067 and 2047 for Series A and Series B, respectively, or earlier upon the occurrence of certain events, including an acceleration of the Debentures of the particular series due to the
occurrence of an event of default. An event of default, as defined by the supplemental indentures, includes default in the payment of interest or principal and bankruptcy proceedings.   

         The
Company is the primary beneficiary of a consolidated VIE used to acquire up to 38 automotive collision repair stores ("synthetic lease"). In 2006, the Company renewed the synthetic
lease for a five-year term at a floating rate due 2011. The Company's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position include $42 million of property and equipment, net, and
long-term debt as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009.   

         The
Allstate Bank received a $10 million long-term advance from the FHLB in April 2008, and another $10 million advance in September 2008. The FHLB advances are
secured with fixed income securities pledged to the FHLB. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, $2 million, $1 million and $1 million was repaid on the advances, respectively.   

         To
manage short-term liquidity, the Company maintains a commercial paper program and a credit facility as a potential source of funds. These include a $1.00 billion
unsecured revolving credit facility and a commercial paper program with a borrowing limit of $1.00 billion. The credit facility has an initial term of five years expiring in 2012 with two
optional one-year extensions that can be exercised at the end of any of the remaining anniversary years of the facility upon approval of existing or replacement lenders providing more than
two-thirds of the commitments to lend. This facility also contains an increase provision that would allow up to an additional $500 million of borrowing provided the increased
portion could be fully syndicated at a later date among existing or new lenders. This facility has a financial   

  181  

covenant
requiring the Company not to exceed a 37.5% debt to capital resources ratio as defined in the agreement. Although the right to borrow under the facility is not subject to a minimum rating
requirement, the costs of maintaining the facility and borrowing under it are based on the ratings of the Company's senior, unsecured, nonguaranteed long-term debt. The total amount
outstanding at any point in time under the combination of the commercial paper program and the credit facility cannot exceed the amount that can be borrowed under the credit facility. No amounts were
outstanding under the credit facility as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The Company had no commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.   

The
Company paid $363 million, $383 million and $347 million of interest on debt in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

         During
2009, the Company filed a universal shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that expires in 2012. The registration statement covers an
unspecified amount of securities and can be used to issue debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, stock purchase contracts, stock purchase units and securities of
trust subsidiaries.   

    Capital stock     

         The Company had 900 million shares of issued common stock of which 533 million shares were outstanding and
367 million shares were held in treasury as of December 31, 2010. In 2010, the Company reacquired 5 million shares at an average cost of $30.59 and reissued 2 million
shares under equity incentive plans.   

   12.  Company Restructuring     

         The Company undertakes various programs to reduce expenses. These programs generally involve a reduction in staffing levels, and in certain cases, office
closures. Restructuring and related charges include employee termination and relocation benefits, and post-exit rent expenses in connection with these programs, and non-cash
charges resulting from pension benefit payments made to agents in connection with the 1999 reorganization of Allstate's multiple agency programs to a single exclusive agency program. In 2010,
restructuring programs primarily relate to Allstate Protection's claim and field sales office consolidations and realignment of litigation services. The expenses related to these activities are
included in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations as restructuring and related charges, and totaled $30 million, $130 million and $23 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

         The
following table presents changes in the restructuring liability during the year ended December 31, 2010.   

The payments applied against the liability for employee costs primarily reflect severance costs, and the payments for exit costs generally consist
of post-exit rent expenses and contract termination penalties. As of December 31, 2010, the cumulative amount incurred to date for active programs totaled $161 million for
employee costs and $45 million for exit costs.   

   13.  Commitments, Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities     

    Leases     

         The Company leases certain office facilities and computer equipment. Total rent expense for all leases was $256 million,
$267 million and $294 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

  182  

Minimum rental commitments under noncancelable capital and operating leases with an initial or remaining term of more than one year as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:   

Shared markets and state facility assessments     

         The Company is required to participate in assigned risk plans, reinsurance facilities and joint underwriting associations in various
states that provide insurance coverage to individuals or entities that otherwise are unable to purchase such coverage from private insurers. Underwriting results related to these arrangements, which
tend to be adverse, have been immaterial to the Company's results of operations. Because of the Company's participation, it may be exposed to losses that surpass the capitalization of these facilities
and/or assessments from these facilities.   

         Castle
Key is subject to assessments from Citizens Property Insurance Corporation in the state of Florida ("FL Citizens"), which was initially created by the state of Florida to provide
insurance to property owners unable to obtain coverage in the private insurance market. FL Citizens, at the discretion and direction of its Board of Governors ("FL Citizens Board"), can levy a regular
assessment on assessable insurers and assessable insureds for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of 6% of the deficit or 6% of Florida property premiums
industry-wide for the prior year. Prior to July 2008, the assessment rate was 10%. The base of assessable insurers includes all property and casualty premiums in the state, except workers'
compensation, medical malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies written under the NFIP. An insurer may recoup a regular assessment through a surcharge to policyholders. In order to
recoup this assessment, an insurer must file for a policy surcharge with the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation ("FL OIR") at least fifteen days prior to imposing the surcharge on policies. If a
deficit remains after the regular assessment, FL Citizens can also levy emergency assessments in the current and subsequent years. Companies are required to collect the emergency assessments directly
from residential property policyholders and remit to FL Citizens as collected.   

         FL
Citizens reported losses from Hurricane Wilma in 2005, which followed a deficit for the 2004 plan year. The FL Citizens Board certified the 2005 FL Citizens deficit at
$1.73 billion of which $920 million was to be funded through a regular assessment. The Company paid its portion of the deficit assessment totaling $14 million during 2006 and has
recouped $12 million as of December 31, 2010. The remainder of the deficit was funded by bonds issued in 2006.   

         The
Company is also subject to assessments from Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation ("LA Citizens"). LA Citizens can levy a regular assessment on participating companies
for a deficit in any calendar year up to a maximum of the greater of 10% of the calendar year deficit or 10% of Louisiana direct property premiums industry-wide for the prior calendar
year.   

    Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund     

         Castle Key participates in the mandatory coverage provided by the FHCF and therefore has access to reimbursements on certain qualifying
Florida hurricane losses from the FHCF (see Note 9), has exposure to assessments and pays annual premiums to the FHCF for this reimbursement protection. The FHCF has the authority to issue
bonds to pay its obligations to insurers participating in the mandatory coverage in excess of its capital balances. Payment of these bonds is funded by emergency assessments on all property and
casualty premiums in the state, except workers' compensation, medical malpractice, accident and health insurance and policies written under the NFIP. The FHCF emergency assessments are limited to 6%
of premiums per year beginning the first year in which reimbursements require bonding, and up to a total of 10% of premiums per year for assessments in the second and subsequent years, if required to
fund additional bonding. The FHCF issued $625 million in bonds in 2008, and the FL OIR ordered an emergency assessment of 1% of premiums collected for all policies renewed after
January 1, 2007. The FHCF issued $676 million in bonds in 2010 and the FL OIR ordered an emergency assessment of 1.3% of premiums collected   

  183  

for
all policies written or renewed after January 1, 2011. As required, companies will collect the FHCF emergency assessments directly from policyholders and remit them to the FHCF as they are
collected.   

         Facilities
such as FL Citizens, LA Citizens and the FHCF are generally designed so that the ultimate cost is borne by policyholders; however, the exposure to assessments and the
availability of recoupments or premium rate increases from these facilities may not offset each other in the Company's financial statements. Moreover, even if they do offset each other, they may not
offset each other in financial statements for the same fiscal period due to the ultimate timing of the assessments and recoupments or premium rate increases, as well as the possibility of policies not
being renewed in subsequent years.   

    California Earthquake Authority     

         Exposure to certain potential losses from earthquakes in California is limited by the Company's participation in the California
Earthquake Authority ("CEA"), which provides insurance for California earthquake losses. The CEA is a privately-financed, publicly-managed state agency created to provide insurance coverage for
earthquake damage. Insurers selling homeowners insurance in California are required to offer earthquake insurance to their customers either through their company or by participation in the CEA. The
Company's homeowners policies continue to include coverages for losses caused by explosions, theft, glass breakage and fires following an earthquake, which are not underwritten by the CEA.   

         As
of October 31, 2010, the CEA's capital balance was approximately $3.68 billion. Should losses arising from an earthquake cause a deficit in the CEA, additional funding
would be obtained from the proceeds of revenue bonds the CEA may issue, an existing $3.12 billion reinsurance layer, and finally, if needed, assessments on participating insurance companies.
The authority of the CEA to assess participating insurers extends through December 1, 2018. Participating insurers are required to pay an assessment, currently estimated not to exceed
$1.56 billion, if the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million. Participating insurers are required to pay a second additional assessment, currently estimated not to exceed
$1.09 billion, if aggregate CEA earthquake losses exceed $9.77 billion and the capital of the CEA falls below $350 million. Within the limits previously described, the assessment
could be intended to restore the CEA's capital to a level of $350 million. There is no provision that allows insurers to recover assessments through a premium surcharge or other mechanism. The
CEA's projected aggregate claim paying capacity is $9.77 billion as of October 31, 2010 and if an event were to result in claims greater than its capacity, affected policyholders would
be paid a prorated portion of their covered losses.   

         All
future assessments on participating CEA insurers are based on their CEA insurance market share as of December 31 of the preceding year. As of April 1, 2010, the
Company's share of the CEA was 17.2%. The Company does not expect its CEA market share to materially change. At this level, the Company's maximum possible CEA assessment would be $456 million
during 2011. Accordingly, assessments from the CEA for a particular quarter or annual period may be material to the results of operations and cash flows, but not the financial position of the Company.
Management believes the Company's exposure to earthquake losses in California has been significantly reduced as a result of its participation in the CEA.   

Texas Windstorm Insurance Association     

         The Company participates in the mandatory coverage provided by the TWIA, for losses relating to hurricane activity. Amounts assessed to
each company are allocated based upon its proportion of business written. In September 2008, TWIA assessed the Company $66 million for losses relating to Hurricane Ike. The assessment was based
on 2007 direct voluntary writings in the State of Texas. The Company expects to
recoup $35 million of the assessment via premium tax offsets over a five year period. $7 million of the total recoupable amount was realized via premium tax offsets in both 2009 and
2010. The remaining $31 million of the assessment was eligible for cession under the Company's reinsurance program. The TWIA board has not indicated the likelihood of any possible future
assessments to insurers at this time. However, assessments from the TWIA for a particular quarter or annual period may be material to the results of operations and cash flows, but not the financial
position of the Company. Management believes the Company's exposure to losses in Texas has been significantly reduced as a result of its participation in the TWIA.   

    Guaranty funds     

         Under state insurance guaranty fund laws, insurers doing business in a state can be assessed, up to prescribed limits, for certain
obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Amounts assessed to each company are typically related to its proportion of business written in each state. The Company's
policy is to accrue assessments when the entity for which the insolvency relates has met its state of domicile's statutory definition of insolvency, the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable and
the related premium upon which the assessment is based is written. In most states, the definition is met with a declaration of financial insolvency by a court of competent   

  184  

jurisdiction.
In certain states there must also be a final order of liquidation. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the liability balance included in other liabilities and accrued expenses was
$46 million and $106 million, respectively. The related premium tax offsets included in other assets were $25 million and $28 million as of December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively.   

    PMI runoff support agreement     

         The Company has certain limited rights and obligations under a capital support agreement ("Runoff Support Agreement") with PMI Mortgage
Insurance Company ("PMI"), the primary operating subsidiary of PMI Group, related to the Company's disposition of PMI in prior years. Under the Runoff Support Agreement, the Company would be required
to pay claims on PMI policies written prior to October 28, 1994 if PMI fails certain financial covenants and fails to pay such claims. The agreement only covers these policies and not any
policies issued on or after that date. In the event any amounts are so paid, the Company would receive a commensurate amount of preferred stock or subordinated debt of PMI Group or PMI. The Runoff
Support Agreement also restricts PMI's ability to write new business and pay dividends under certain circumstances. Management does not believe this agreement will have a material adverse effect on
results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

    Guarantees     

         The Company owns certain fixed income securities that obligate the Company to exchange credit risk or to forfeit principal due,
depending on the nature or occurrence of specified credit events for the reference entities. In the event all such specified credit events were to occur, the Company's maximum amount at risk on these
fixed income securities, as measured by the amount of the aggregate initial investment, was $64 million as of December 31, 2010. The obligations associated with these fixed income
securities expire at various dates on or before July 26, 2016.   

         Related
to the disposal through reinsurance of substantially all of Allstate Financial's variable annuity business to Prudential in 2006, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries,
ALIC and ALNY, have agreed to indemnify Prudential for certain pre-closing contingent liabilities (including extra-contractual liabilities of ALIC and ALNY and liabilities specifically
excluded from the transaction) that ALIC and ALNY have agreed to retain. In addition, the Company, ALIC and ALNY will each indemnify Prudential for certain post-closing liabilities that
may arise from the acts of ALIC, ALNY and their agents, including in connection with ALIC's and ALNY's provision of transition services. The reinsurance agreements contain no limitations or
indemnifications with regard to insurance risk transfer, and transferred all of the future risks and responsibilities for performance on the underlying variable annuity contracts to Prudential,
including those related to benefit guarantees. Management does not believe this agreement will have a material adverse effect on results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

         The
Company provides residual value guarantees on Company leased automobiles. If all outstanding leases were terminated effective December 31, 2010, the Company's maximum
obligation pursuant to these guarantees, assuming the automobiles have no residual value, would be $10 million as of December 31, 2010. The remaining term of each residual value
guarantee is equal to the term of the underlying lease that ranges from less than one year to three years. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments pursuant to these guarantees.   

         In
the normal course of business, the Company provides standard indemnifications to contractual counterparties in connection with numerous transactions, including acquisitions and
divestitures. The types of indemnifications typically provided include indemnifications for breaches of representations and warranties, taxes and certain other liabilities, such as third party
lawsuits. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and are entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. The terms
of the indemnifications vary in duration and nature. In many cases, the maximum obligation is not explicitly stated and the contingencies triggering the obligation to indemnify have not occurred and
are not expected to occur. Consequently, the maximum amount of the obligation under such indemnifications is not determinable. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments pursuant to
these obligations.   

         The
aggregate liability balance related to all guarantees was not material as of December 31, 2010.   

Regulation and Compliance     

         The Company is subject to changing social, economic and regulatory conditions. From time to time, regulatory authorities or legislative
bodies seek to influence and restrict premium rates, require premium refunds to policyholders, require reinstatement of terminated policies, restrict the ability of insurers to cancel or
non-renew policies, require insurers to continue to write new policies or limit their ability to write new policies, limit insurers' ability to change coverage terms or to impose
underwriting standards, impose additional regulations regarding agent and broker compensation, regulate the nature of and amount of investments, and otherwise expand overall regulation of insurance
products and the insurance industry. The Company has established procedures and policies to facilitate compliance   

  185  

with
laws and regulations, to foster prudent business operations, and to support financial reporting. The Company routinely reviews its practices to validate compliance with laws and regulations and
with internal procedures and policies. As a result of these reviews, from time to time the Company may decide to modify some of its procedures and policies. Such modifications, and the reviews that
led to them, may be accompanied by payments being made and costs being incurred. The ultimate changes and eventual effects of these actions on the Company's business, if any, are uncertain.   

     Legal and regulatory proceedings and inquiries      

     Background      

         The Company and certain subsidiaries are involved in a number of lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and other legal proceedings arising
out of various aspects of its business. As background to both the "Claims related proceedings" and "Other proceedings" subsections below, please note the following:   

These matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to many uncertainties and
complexities, including the underlying facts of each matter; novel legal issues; variations between jurisdictions in which matters are being litigated, heard, or investigated; differences in
applicable laws and judicial interpretations; the length of time before many of these matters might be resolved by settlement, through litigation, or otherwise; the fact that some of the lawsuits are
putative class actions in which a class has not been certified and in which the purported class may not be clearly defined; the fact that some of the lawsuits involve multi-state class actions in
which the applicable law(s) for the claims at issue is in dispute and therefore unclear; and the current challenging legal environment faced by large corporations and insurance companies.    
           The outcome of these matters may be affected by decisions, verdicts, and settlements, and the timing of such decisions,
verdicts, and settlements, in other individual and class action lawsuits that involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities and by other legal, governmental, and regulatory actions that
involve the Company, other insurers, or other entities. The outcome may also be affected by future state or federal legislation, the timing or substance of which cannot be predicted.    
           In the lawsuits, plaintiffs seek a variety of remedies which may include equitable relief in the form of injunctive and
other remedies and monetary relief in the form of contractual and extra-contractual damages. In some cases, the monetary damages sought may include punitive or treble damages. Often specific
information about the relief sought, such as the amount of damages, is not available because plaintiffs have not requested specific relief in their pleadings. When specific monetary demands are made,
they are often set just below a state court jurisdictional limit in order to seek the maximum amount available in state court, regardless of the specifics of the case, while still avoiding the risk of
removal to federal court. In Allstate's experience, monetary demands in pleadings bear little relation to the ultimate loss, if any, to the Company.     
           In connection with regulatory examinations and proceedings, government authorities may seek various forms of relief,
including penalties, restitution, and changes in business practices. The Company may not be advised of the nature and extent of relief sought until the final stages of the examination or proceeding.    
           For the reasons specified above, it is not possible to make meaningful estimates of the amount or range of loss that could
result from the matters described below in the "Claims related proceedings" and "Other proceedings" subsections. The Company reviews these matters on an ongoing basis and follows appropriate
accounting guidance when making accrual and disclosure decisions. When assessing reasonably possible and probable outcomes, the Company bases its decisions on its assessment of the ultimate outcome
following all appeals.     
           Due to the complexity and scope of the matters disclosed in the "Claims related proceedings" and "Other proceedings"
subsections below and the many uncertainties that exist, the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be reasonably predicted. In the event of an unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters,
the ultimate liability may be in excess of amounts currently reserved, if any, and may be material to the Company's operating results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual period.
However, based on information currently known to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome of all matters described below, as they are resolved over time, is not likely to have a material
adverse effect on the financial position of the Company.    

Claims related proceedings      

         The Company is vigorously defending a number of matters in various stages of development filed in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina,
including individual lawsuits and a statewide putative class action in Louisiana. The Louisiana   

  186  

Attorney
General filed a putative class action lawsuit in state court against Allstate and other insurers on behalf of Road Home fund recipients alleging that the insurers have failed to pay all
damages owed under their policies. The insurers removed the matter to federal court. The district court denied plaintiffs' motion to remand the matter to state court and the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit ("Fifth Circuit") affirmed that ruling. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss and the plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the claims involving a Road Home subrogation agreement.
In March 2009, the district court denied the State's request that its claims be remanded to state court. As for the defendant insurers' motion, the judge granted it in part and denied it in part.
Dismissal of all of the extra-contractual claims, including the bad faith and breach of fiduciary duty claims, was granted. Dismissal also was granted of all claims based on the Valued Policy Law and
all flood loss claims based on the levee breaches finding that the insurers flood exclusions precluded coverage. The remaining claims are for breach of contract and for declaratory relief on the
alleged underpayment of claims by the insurers. The judge did not dismiss the class action allegations. The defendants also had moved to dismiss the complaint on grounds that the State had no standing
to bring the lawsuit as an assignee of insureds because of anti-assignment language in the insurers' policies. The judge denied the defendants' motion for reconsideration on the assignment
issue but found the matter was ripe for consideration by the federal appellate court. The defendants have filed a petition for permission to appeal to the Fifth Circuit. The Fifth Circuit has accepted
review. After the Fifth Circuit accepted review, plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the case to state court, asserting that the class claims on which federal jurisdiction was premised have now
effectively been dismissed as a result of a ruling in a related case. The Fifth Circuit has denied the motion for remand, without prejudice to plaintiffs' right to refile the motion for remand after
the Fifth Circuit disposes of the pending appeal. On July 28, 2010, the Fifth Circuit issued an order stating that since there is no controlling Louisiana Supreme Court precedent on the issue
of whether an insurance policy's anti-assignment clause prohibits post-loss assignments, the Fifth Circuit is certifying that issue to the Louisiana Supreme Court. The issue
has been briefed to the Louisiana Supreme Court. That court will hold oral argument on the appeal on March 14, 2011.   

         There
are one nationwide and several statewide class action lawsuits pending against Allstate alleging that it failed to properly pay general contractors overhead and profit on many
homeowner structural loss claims. Most of these lawsuits contain counts for breach of contract, as well as one or more counts asserting other theories of liability such as bad faith, fraud, unjust
enrichment, or unfair claims practices. General contractors overhead and profit is an amount that is added to payments on claims where the services of a general contractor are reasonably likely to be
required. To a large degree, these lawsuits mirror similar lawsuits filed against other carriers in the industry, some of which have settled. These lawsuits are pending in various state and federal
courts, and they are in different stages of development. The Company has reached an agreement to settle on a 48-state basis the nationwide class action. This settlement received
preliminary approval from the court on December 6, 2010, and the case was certified as a class for settlement purposes only. The settlement was accrued as a prior year reserve reestimate in
property-liability insurance claims and claims expense in 2010. No other classes have been certified against Allstate on this issue. The hearing for final approval of the settlement is scheduled for
May 6, 2011.              

Allstate
has been vigorously defending a lawsuit in regards to certain claims employees involving worker classification issues. This lawsuit is a certified class action challenging a
state wage and hour law. In this case,
plaintiffs sought monetary relief, such as penalties and liquidated damages, and non-monetary relief, such as injunctive relief. In December 2009, the liability phase of the case was
tried, and, on July 6, 2010, the court issued its decision finding in favor of Allstate on all claims. The plaintiffs are appealing the decision.   

Other proceedings      

         The Company is defending certain matters relating to the Company's agency program reorganization announced in 1999. These matters are
in various stages of development.    

These matters include a lawsuit filed in 2001 by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ("EEOC") alleging
retaliation under federal civil rights laws (the "EEOC I" suit) and a class action filed in 2001 by former employee agents alleging retaliation and age discrimination under the Age Discrimination in
Employment Act ("ADEA"), breach of contract and ERISA violations (the "Romero I" suit). In 2004, in the consolidated EEOC I and Romero I litigation, the trial court issued a memorandum and order that,
among other things, certified classes of agents, including a mandatory class of agents who had signed a release, for purposes of effecting the court's declaratory judgment that the release is voidable
at the option of the release signer. The court also ordered that an agent who voids the release must return to Allstate "any and all benefits received by the [agent] in
exchange for signing the release." The court also stated that, "on the undisputed facts of record, there is no basis for claims of age discrimination." The EEOC and plaintiffs asked the court to
clarify and/or reconsider its memorandum and order and in January 2007, the judge denied their request. In June 2007, the court granted the Company's motions for summary judgment. Following
plaintiffs' filing of a notice of appeal, the U.S. Court of    
 
  187  

Appeals
for the Third Circuit ("Third Circuit") issued an order in December 2007 stating that the notice of appeal was not taken from a final order within the meaning of the federal law and thus not
appealable at this time. In March 2008, the Third Circuit decided that the appeal should not summarily be dismissed and that the question of whether the matter is appealable at this time will be
addressed by the Third Circuit along with the merits of the appeal. In July 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the decision which granted the Company's summary judgment motions, remanded the cases to the
trial court for additional discovery, and directed that the cases be reassigned to another trial court judge. In January 2010, the cases were assigned to a new judge for further proceedings in the
trial court.    

A putative nationwide class action has also been filed by former employee agents alleging various violations of ERISA,
including a worker classification issue. These plaintiffs are challenging certain amendments to the Agents Pension Plan and are seeking to have exclusive agent independent contractors treated as
employees for benefit purposes. This matter was dismissed with prejudice by the trial court, was the subject of further proceedings on appeal, and was reversed and remanded to the trial court in 2005.
In June 2007, the court granted the Company's motion to dismiss the case. Following plaintiffs' filing of a notice of appeal, the Third Circuit issued an order in December 2007 stating that the notice
of appeal was not taken from a final order within the meaning of the federal law and thus not appealable at this time. In March 2008, the Third Circuit decided that the appeal should not summarily be
dismissed and that the question of whether the matter is appealable at this time will be addressed by the Third Circuit along with the merits of the appeal. In July 2009, the Third Circuit vacated the
decision which granted the Company's motion to dismiss the case, remanded the case to the trial court for additional discovery, and directed that the case be reassigned to another trial court judge.
In January 2010, the case was assigned to a new judge for further proceedings in the trial court.    

In
these agency program reorganization matters, plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages, and equitable relief. Allstate has been vigorously defending these lawsuits and other
matters related to its agency program reorganization.   

     Other Matters      

         Various other legal, governmental, and regulatory actions, including state market conduct exams, and other governmental and regulatory
inquiries are currently pending that involve the Company and specific aspects of its conduct of business. Like other members of the insurance industry, the Company is the target of a number of class
action lawsuits and other types of proceedings, some of which involve claims for substantial or indeterminate amounts. These actions are based on a variety of issues and target a range of the
Company's practices. The outcome of these disputes is currently unpredictable.   

         One
or more of these matters could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results or cash flows for a particular quarterly or annual period. However, based on information
currently known to it, management believes that the ultimate outcome of all matters described in this "Other Matters" subsection, in excess of amounts currently reserved, if any, as they are resolved
over time, is not likely to have a material effect on the operating results, cash flows or financial position of the Company.   

Asbestos and environmental     

         Allstate's reserves for asbestos claims were $1.10 billion and $1.18 billion, net of reinsurance recoverables of
$555 million and $600 million, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Reserves for environmental claims were $201 million and $198 million, net of
reinsurance recoverables of $47 million and $49 million, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately 60% and 62% of the total net asbestos and environmental
reserves as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were for incurred but not reported estimated losses.   

         Management
believes its net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines exposures are appropriately established based on available facts, technology, laws and
regulations. However, establishing net loss reserves for asbestos, environmental and other discontinued lines claims is subject to uncertainties that are much greater than those presented by other
types of claims. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded amounts, which are based on management's best estimate. Among the complications are lack of historical data, long
reporting delays, uncertainty as to the number and identity of insureds with potential exposure and unresolved legal issues regarding policy coverage; unresolved legal issues regarding the
determination, availability and timing of exhaustion of policy limits; plaintiffs' evolving and expanding theories of liability; availability and collectability of recoveries from reinsurance;
retrospectively determined premiums and other contractual agreements; estimates of the extent and timing of any contractual liability; the impact of bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos
producers and other asbestos defendants; and other uncertainties. There are also complex legal issues concerning the interpretation of various insurance policy provisions and whether those losses are
covered, or were ever intended to be   

  188  

covered,
and could be recoverable through retrospectively determined premium, reinsurance or other contractual agreements. Courts have reached different and sometimes inconsistent conclusions as to
when losses are deemed to have occurred and which policies provide coverage; what types of losses are covered; whether there is an insurer obligation to defend; how policy limits are determined; how
policy exclusions and conditions are applied and interpreted; and whether clean-up costs represent insured property damage. Management believes these issues are not likely to be resolved
in the near future, and the ultimate costs may vary materially from the amounts currently recorded resulting in material changes in loss reserves. In addition, while the Company believes that improved
actuarial techniques and databases have assisted in its ability to estimate asbestos, environmental, and other discontinued lines net loss reserves, these refinements may subsequently prove to be
inadequate indicators of the extent of probable losses. Due to the uncertainties and factors described above, management believes it is not practicable to develop a meaningful range for any such
additional net loss reserves that may be required.   

14.  Income Taxes     

         The Company and its domestic subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. Tax liabilities and benefits realized by the consolidated group
are allocated as generated by the respective entities.   

         The
Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") is currently examining the Company's 2007 and 2008 federal income tax returns. The IRS has completed its examination of the Company's federal income
tax returns for 2005-2006 and the case is under consideration at the IRS Appeals Office. The Company's tax years prior to 2005 have been examined by the IRS and the statute of limitations
has expired on those years. Any adjustments that may result from IRS examinations of tax returns are not expected to have a material effect on the results of operations, cash flows or financial
position of the Company.   

         The
reconciliation of the change in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

($ in millions)    
     
   2010    
     
   2009    
     
   2008    

Balance   beginning of year  
     
  $  
  22  
     
  $  
  21  
     
  $  
  76  

Increase for tax positions taken in a prior year  

1  

1  

Decrease for tax positions taken in a prior year  

Increase for tax positions taken in the current year  

2  

1  

4  

Decrease for tax positions taken in the current year  

Increase (decrease) for settlements  

(60  
  )  

Reductions due to lapse of statute of limitations  

Balance   end of year  
     
  $  
  25  
     
  $  
  22  
     
  $  
  21  

The Company believes it is reasonably possible that the liability balance will be reduced by $25 million within the next twelve months upon
the resolution of an outstanding issue resulting from the 2005-2006 IRS examination. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, recognition of previously unrecognized tax benefits
is not expected to impact the Company's effective tax rate.   

         The
Company recognizes interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company did not record interest income or expense relating to unrecognized tax
benefits in income tax expense in 2010. The Company recorded $0.1 million and $5 million of interest income relating to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense in 2009 and 2008,
respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, there was no interest accrued with respect to unrecognized tax benefits. No amounts have been accrued for penalties.   

  189  

The
components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities as of December 31 are as follows:   

Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, will
be realized based on the Company's assessment that the deductions ultimately recognized for tax purposes will be fully utilized. The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets decreased by
$5 million in 2010.   

         The
components of income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

As of December 31, 2010, the Company has tax credit carryforwards of $6 million which will be available to offset future tax
liabilities. These carryforwards will expire at the end of 2029 and 2030. In addition, the Company has an alternative minimum tax credit carryforward of $168 million which will be available to
offset future tax liabilities indefinitely.   

         Income
tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 includes expense of $254 million attributable to an increase in the valuation allowance relating to the deferred tax
asset on capital losses recorded in the first quarter of 2009. This valuation allowance was released in connection with the adoption of new OTTI accounting guidance on April 1, 2009; however,
the release was recorded as an increase to retained income and therefore did not reverse the amount recorded in income tax expense. The release of the valuation allowance is related to the reversal of
previously recorded other-than-temporary impairment write-downs that would not have been recorded under the new OTTI accounting guidance.   

         The
Company received refunds of $8 million and $1.25 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, and paid income taxes of $511 million in 2008. The Company had a current
income tax receivable of $129 million and $264 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

  190  

A
reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate on income from operations for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

15.  Statutory Financial Information     

         Allstate's domestic property-liability and life insurance subsidiaries prepare their statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with accounting practices
prescribed or permitted by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Prescribed statutory accounting practices include a variety of publications of the
NAIC, as well as state laws, regulations and general administrative rules. Permitted statutory accounting practices encompass all accounting practices not so prescribed.   

         All
states require domiciled insurance companies to prepare statutory-basis financial statements in conformity with the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual, subject to any
deviations prescribed or permitted by the applicable insurance commissioner and/or director.   

         Statutory
accounting practices differ from GAAP primarily since they require charging policy acquisition and certain sales inducement costs to expense as incurred, establishing life
insurance reserves based on different actuarial assumptions, and valuing certain investments and establishing deferred taxes on a different basis.   

Statutory
net income and capital and surplus of Allstate's domestic insurance subsidiaries, determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices prescribed or permitted by
insurance regulatory authorities are as follows:   

(1)     The
Property-Liability statutory capital and surplus balances exclude wholly-owned subsidiaries included in the Allstate Financial segment.    

There were no permitted practices utilized as of December 31, 2010 or 2009.   

    Dividends     

         The ability of the Company to pay dividends is dependent on business conditions, income, cash requirements of the Company, receipt of
dividends from AIC and other relevant factors. The payment of shareholder dividends by AIC without the prior approval of the state insurance regulator is limited to formula amounts based on net income
and capital and surplus, determined in conformity with statutory accounting practices, as well as the timing and amount of dividends paid in the preceding twelve months. AIC paid dividends of
$1.30 billion in 2010, which was less than the maximum amount allowed under Illinois insurance law without the prior approval of the Illinois Department of Insurance ("IL DOI") based on
2009 formula amounts. The maximum amount of dividends AIC will be able to pay without prior IL DOI approval at a given point in time during 2011 is $1.54 billion, less dividends paid
during the preceding twelve months measured at that point in time.   

         Notification
and approval of intercompany lending activities is also required by the IL DOI for transactions that exceed a level that is based on a formula using statutory
admitted assets and statutory surplus.   

   16.  Benefit Plans     

    Pension and other postretirement plans     

         Defined benefit pension plans cover most full-time employees, certain part-time employees and employee-agents.
Benefits under the pension plans are based upon the employee's length of service and eligible annual compensation. A   

  191  

cash
balance formula was added to the Allstate Retirement Plan effective January 1, 2003. All eligible employees hired before August 1, 2002 were provided with a one-time
opportunity to choose between the cash balance formula and the final average pay formula. The cash balance formula applies to all eligible employees hired after August 1, 2002.   

         The
Company also provides certain health care subsidies for eligible employees hired before January 1, 2003 when they retire and their eligible dependents and certain life
insurance benefits for eligible employees hired before January 1, 2003 when they retire ("postretirement benefits"). Qualified employees may become eligible for these benefits if they retire in
accordance with the Company's established retirement policy and are continuously insured under the Company's group plans or other approved plans in accordance with the plan's participation
requirements. The Company shares the cost of retiree medical benefits with non Medicare-eligible retirees based on years of service, with the Company's share being subject to a 5% limit on annual
medical cost inflation after retirement. During 2009, the Company decided to change its approach for delivering benefits to Medicare-eligible retirees. The Company no longer offers medical benefits
for Medicare-eligible retirees but instead provides a fixed Company contribution (based on years of service and other factors), which is not subject to adjustments for inflation.   

The
Company has reserved the right to modify or terminate its benefit plans at any time and for any reason.   

    Obligations and funded status     

         The Company calculates benefit obligations based upon generally accepted actuarial methodologies using the projected benefit obligation
("PBO") for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation ("APBO") for other postretirement plans. The determination of pension costs and other postretirement obligations as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009 are determined using a December 31 measurement date. The benefit obligations represent the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed to employee
service rendered as of the measurement date. The PBO is measured using the pension benefit formula and assumptions as to future compensation levels. A plan's funded status is calculated as the
difference between the benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets. The Company's funding policy for the pension plans is to make annual contributions at a level that is in accordance with
regulations under the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC") and generally accepted actuarial principles. The Company's postretirement benefit plans are not funded.   

The
components of the plans' funded status that are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as of December 31 are as follows:   

The decrease of $131 million in the pension net actuarial loss during 2010 is related to higher than expected returns and higher
unrecognized loss amortization through pension expense, partially offset by a decrease in the discount rate. The majority of the $2.31 billion net actuarial pension benefit losses not yet
recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in 2010 reflects the effect of unfavorable equity market conditions on the value of the pension plan assets in prior years, and to a lesser
extent decreases in the discount rate. The increase of $36 million in the OPEB net actuarial gain during 2010 is primarily related to a decrease in enrollment of Medicare-eligible retirees and
lower claim costs of future retirees. The decrease of $22 million in the OPEB prior service credit is primarily related to amortization of prior service cost.   

  192  

The
change in 2010 in items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost, which is recorded in unrecognized pension and other postretirement benefit cost, is shown in the table
below.   

($ in millions) 

Pension 
benefits    
     
   Postretirement 
benefits    

Items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost   
December 31, 2009  
     
  $  
  2,434  
     
  $  
  (483  
  )  

Net actuarial loss (gain) arising during the period  

74  

(58  
  )  

Net actuarial (loss) gain amortized to net periodic benefit cost  

(208  
  )  
     
  22  

Prior service cost arising during the period  

Prior service credit amortized to net periodic benefit cost  

2  

22  

Translation adjustment and other  

4  

Items not yet recognized as a component of net periodic cost   
December 31, 2010  
     
  $  
  2,306  
     
  $  
  (497  
  )  

The net actuarial loss (gain) is recognized as a component of net periodic cost amortized over the average remaining service period of active
employees expected to receive benefits. Estimates of the net actuarial loss (gain) and prior service credit expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost during 2011 are shown
in the table below.   

($ in millions) 

Pension 
benefits    
     
   Postretirement 
benefits    

Net actuarial loss (gain)  
     
  $  
  154  
     
  $  
  (30  
  )  

Prior service credit  

(2  
  )  
     
  (23  
  )  

The accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") for all defined benefit pension plans was $4.82 billion and $4.50 billion as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The ABO is the actuarial present value of all benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered at the measurement date.
However, it differs from the PBO due to the exclusion of an assumption as to future compensation levels.   

The
PBO, ABO and fair value of plan assets for the Company's pension plans with an ABO in excess of plan assets were $4.48 billion, $3.79 billion and $3.54 billion,
respectively, as of December 31, 2010 and $4.99 billion, $4.28 billion and $3.85 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. Included in the accrued benefit cost
of the pension benefits are certain unfunded non-qualified plans with accrued benefit costs of $132 million and $156 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively.   

The
changes in benefit obligations for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     Benefits
paid include lump sum distributions, a portion of which may trigger settlement accounting treatment.
       (2)     In
2009, the Company amended its postretirement benefits plan offering and financial subsidy for Medicare-eligible retiree medical benefits.    

193  

Components of net periodic cost     

         The components of net periodic cost for all plans for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

Assumptions     

         Weighted average assumptions used to determine net pension cost and net postretirement benefit cost for the years ended
December 31 are:   

Weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31 are listed in the following table.   

The weighted average health care cost trend rate used in measuring the accumulated postretirement benefit cost is 7.40% for 2011, gradually
declining to 4.5% in 2024 and remaining at that level thereafter.   

         Assumed
health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement health care plans. A one percentage-point increase in assumed health care
cost trend rates would increase the total of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by $3 million and
$27 million, respectively. A one percentage-point decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates would decrease the total of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit
cost of other postretirement benefits and the APBO by $2 million and $19 million, respectively.   

    Pension plan assets     

         The change in pension plan assets for the years ended December 31 is as follows:   

In general, the Company's pension plan assets are managed in accordance with investment policies approved by pension investment committees. The
purpose of the policies is to ensure the plans' long-term ability to meet benefit obligations by prudently investing plan assets and Company contributions, while taking into consideration
regulatory and legal requirements and current market conditions. The investment policies are reviewed periodically and specify   

  194  

target
plan asset allocation by asset category. In addition, the policies specify various asset allocation and other risk limits. The pension plans' asset exposure within each asset category is
tracked against widely accepted established benchmarks for each asset class with limits on variation from the benchmark established in the investment policy. Pension plan assets are regularly
monitored for compliance with these limits and other risk limits specified in the investment policies.   

         The
pension plans' target asset allocation and the actual percentage of plan assets, by asset category as of December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     Securities
lending collateral reinvestment is excluded from target and actual percentage of plan assets.    

In general, exposures to an asset category may be achieved either through direct investment holdings or through replication using derivative
instruments (e.g., futures or swaps). The notional amount of derivatives used for replication is targeted at 10% and limited to 15% of total assets.   

         Outside
the target asset allocation, the pension plans participate in a securities lending program to enhance returns. U.S. government fixed income securities and U.S. equity securities
are lent out and cash collateral is invested 35% in fixed income securities and 65% in short-term investments.   

  195  

The
following table presents the fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2010.   

(1)     Real
estate funds held by the pension plans are primarily invested in U.S. commercial real estate.       (2)     Private
equity funds held by the pension plans are primarily comprised of North American buyout funds.       (3)     Hedge
funds held by the pension plans primarily comprise fund of funds investments in diversified pools of capital across funds with
underlying strategies such as convertible arbitrage, equity market neutral, fixed income arbitrage, global macro, commodity trading advisors, long short equity, short biased equity, and event driven
strategies.       (4)     The
securities lending obligation represents the plan's obligation to return securities lending collateral received under a securities lending
program. The terms of the program allow both the plan and the counterparty the right and ability to redeem/return the securities loaned on short notice. Due to its relatively short-term
nature, the outstanding balance of the obligation approximates fair value.       (5)     Other
net plan assets represent interest and dividends receivable and net receivables related to settlements of investment transactions, such
as purchases and sales.    

196  

The following table presents the fair values of pension plan assets as of December 31, 2009.   

197  

The fair values of pension plan assets are estimated using the same methodologies and inputs as those used to determine the fair values for the
respective asset category of the Company. These methodologies and inputs are disclosed in Note 5.   

         The
following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

The following table presents the rollforward of Level 3 plan assets for the year ended December 31, 2009.   

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on plan assets. The Company's
assumption for the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually giving consideration to appropriate financial data including, but not limited to, the plan asset
allocation, forward-looking expected returns for the period over which benefits will be paid, historical returns on plan assets and other relevant market data. Given the long-term forward
looking nature of this assumption, the actual returns in any one year do not immediately result in a change. In giving consideration to the targeted plan asset allocation, the Company evaluated
returns using the same sources it has used historically which include: historical average asset class returns from an independent nationally recognized vendor of this type of data blended together
using the asset allocation policy weights for the Company's pension plans; asset class return forecasts from a large global independent asset management firm that specializes in providing multi-asset
class index fund products which were blended together using the asset allocation policy weights; and expected portfolio returns from a proprietary simulation methodology of a widely recognized
external investment consulting firm that performs asset allocation and actuarial services for corporate pension plan sponsors. This
same methodology has been applied on a consistent basis each year. All of these were consistent with the Company's long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption of 8.5% as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009. As of the 2010 measurement date, the arithmetic average of the annual actual return on plan assets for the most recent 10 and 5 years was 3.5% and 6.0%,
respectively.   

         Pension
plan assets did not include any of the Company's common stock as of December 31, 2010 or 2009.   

  198  

Cash flows     

         There was no required cash contribution necessary to satisfy the minimum funding requirement under the IRC for the tax qualified
pension plans as of December 31, 2010. The Company currently plans to contribute $263 million to its pension plans in 2011.   

The
Company contributed $35 million and $39 million to the postretirement benefit plans in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Contributions by participants were
$22 million and $38 million in 2010 and 2009.   

    Estimated future benefit payments     

         Estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid in the next 10 years, based on the assumptions used to measure the
Company's benefit obligation as of December 31, 2010 are presented in the table below. Effective January 1, 2010, the Company no longer participates in the Retiree Drug Subsidy program
due to the change in the Company's retiree medical plan for Medicare-eligible retirees.   

Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan     

         Employees of the Company, with the exception of those employed by the Company's international subsidiaries and Sterling Collision
Centers ("Sterling") subsidiary, are eligible to become members of the Allstate 401(k) Savings Plan ("Allstate Plan"). The Company's contributions are based on the Company's matching obligation and
certain performance measures. The Company is responsible for funding its anticipated contribution to the Allstate Plan, and may, at the discretion of management, use the ESOP to pre-fund
certain portions. In connection with the Allstate Plan, the Company has a note from the ESOP with a principal balance of $22 million as of December 31, 2010. The ESOP note has a fixed
interest rate of 7.9% and matures in 2019. The Company records dividends on the ESOP shares in retained income and all the shares held by the ESOP are included in basic and diluted weighted average
common shares outstanding.   

         The
Company's contribution to the Allstate Plan was $36 million, $78 million and $48 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts were reduced by the
ESOP benefit computed for the years ended December 31 as follows:   

The Company made no contributions to the ESOP in 2010 and 2009. The Company contributed $5 million to the ESOP in 2008. As of
December 31, 2010, total committed to be released, allocated and unallocated ESOP shares were 0.2 million, 34 million and 5 million, respectively.   

         Allstate
has defined contribution plans for eligible employees of its Canadian insurance subsidiaries and Sterling. Expense for these plans was $5 million, $6 million and
$2 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

   17.  Equity Incentive Plans     

         The Company currently has two equity incentive plans that permit it to grant nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options, restricted or unrestricted
shares of the Company's stock and restricted stock units to certain employees   

  199  

and
directors of the Company. The total compensation expense related to equity awards was $68 million, $74 million and $85 million and the total income tax benefits were
$23 million, $25 million and $29 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total cash received from the exercise of options was
$28 million, $3 million and $33 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total tax benefit realized on options exercised and stock
unrestricted was $11 million, $3 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

The
Company records compensation expense related to awards under these plans over the vesting period of each grant. The Company records compensation expense for employees eligible for
continued vesting upon retirement over the vesting period to the date that the employee is eligible for retirement. As of December 31, 2010, total unrecognized compensation cost related to all
nonvested awards was $107 million, of which $63 million related to nonqualified stock options which are expected to be recognized over the weighted average vesting period of
2.36 years and $44 million is related to restricted stock units which are expected to be recognized over the weighted average vesting period of 2.47 years.   

Options
are granted under the plans with exercise prices equal to the closing share price of the Company's common stock on the applicable grant date. Options granted to employees under
the Allstate plan generally vest 50% on the second anniversary of the grant date and 25% on each of the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date. Options granted prior to 2010 vest ratably
over a four year period. Options may be exercised once vested and will expire ten years after the date of grant unless the employee retires. For a retirement, employee stock options vest as scheduled.
When the options become vested, they may be exercised on or before the earlier of the option expiration date or the fifth anniversary of the employee's retirement. Restricted stock units generally
vest and unrestrict 50% on the second anniversary of the grant date and 25% on each of the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date, except for directors which vest immediately and unrestrict
after leaving the board. Restricted stock and restricted stock units granted to employees prior to 2010 vest and unrestrict in full on the fourth anniversary of the grant date. Employee awards are
subject to forfeiture upon termination. For terminations due to employee retirement, restricted stock units continue to unrestrict as provided for in the original grant.   

         A
total of 71.0 million shares of common stock were authorized to be used for awards under the plans, subject to adjustment in accordance with the plans' terms. As of
December 31, 2010, 21.2 million shares were reserved and remained available for future issuance under these plans. The Company uses its treasury shares for these issuances.   

         The
fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial lattice model. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee
termination within the valuation model. In addition, separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. The expected term of
options granted is derived from the output of the binominal lattice model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility of the price of
the underlying shares is implied based on traded options and historical volatility of the Company's common stock. The expected dividends for 2010 were based on the current dividend yield of the
Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The expected dividends for 2009 were based on a graded average of the current and historical long-term dividend yield of the Company's stock as
of the date of the grant. The expected dividends for 2008 were based on the current dividend yield of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The risk-free rate for periods within
the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The assumptions used are shown in the following table.   

200  

A summary of option activity for the year ended December 31, 2010 is shown in the following table.   

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $9.89, $5.74 and $9.98 during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. The intrinsic value, which is the difference between the fair value and the exercise price, of options exercised was $16 million, $428 thousand and $9 million
during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

         The
changes in restricted stock and restricted stock units are shown in the following table for the year ended December 31, 2010.   

The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is based on the market value of the Company's stock as of the date of the grant. The
market value in part reflects the payment of future dividends expected. The weighted average grant date fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units granted was $31.32, $17.47 and $48.00
during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The total fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units vested was $16 million, $11 million and
$25 million during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

         The
tax benefit realized in 2010, 2009 and 2008 related to tax deductions from stock option exercises and included in shareholders' equity was $4 million, zero and
$3 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized in 2010, 2009 and 2008 related to all stock-based compensation and credited directly to shareholders' equity was $0.5 million, $(6)
million and $3 million, respectively.   

18.  Business Segments     

         Allstate management is organized around products and services, and this structure is considered in the identification of its four reportable segments. These
segments and their respective operations are as follows:   

            Allstate Protection    sells principally private passenger auto and homeowners insurance in the United States and Canada. Revenues from
external customers generated outside the United States were $741 million, $619 million and
$665 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon underwriting results.   

Discontinued Lines and Coverages    consists of business no longer written by Allstate, including results from asbestos, environmental and
other discontinued lines claims, and certain commercial and other businesses in run-off. This segment also includes the historical results of the commercial and reinsurance businesses sold
in 1996. The Company evaluates the results of this segment based upon underwriting results.   

  201  

Allstate Financial    sells life insurance, retirement and investment products and voluntary accident and health insurance. The principal
individual products are interest-sensitive, traditional and variable life insurance; fixed annuities; and voluntary accident and health insurance. The institutional product line consists primarily of
funding agreements sold to unaffiliated trusts that use them to back medium-term notes issued to institutional and individual investors. Banking products and services have been offered to
customers through the Allstate Bank. Allstate Financial had no revenues from external customers generated outside the United States in 2010, 2009 and 2008. The Company evaluates the results of this
segment based upon operating income.   

            Corporate and Other    comprises holding company activities and certain non-insurance operations.   

         Allstate
Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages comprise Property-Liability. The Company does not allocate Property-Liability investment income, realized capital gains and
losses, or assets to the Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments. Management reviews assets at the Property-Liability, Allstate Financial, and Corporate and Other levels for
decision-making purposes.   

The
accounting policies of the business segments are the same as those described in Note 2. The effects of certain inter-segment transactions are excluded from segment performance
evaluation and therefore are eliminated in the segment results.   

    Measuring segment profit or loss     

         The measure of segment profit or loss used by Allstate's management in evaluating performance is underwriting income (loss) for the
Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments and operating income for Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments. A reconciliation of these measures to net income (loss)
is provided below.   

            Underwriting income (loss)    is calculated as premiums earned, less claims and claims expenses ("losses"), amortization of DAC, operating
costs and expenses, and restructuring and related charges as determined using GAAP.   

            Operating income (loss)    is net income (loss) excluding:   

realized capital gains and losses, after-tax, except for periodic settlements and accruals on
non-hedge derivative instruments, which are reported with realized capital gains and losses but included in operating income (loss),     
           (amortization) accretion of DAC and DSI, to the extent they resulted from the recognition of certain realized capital
gains and losses,     
           gain (loss) on disposition of operations, after-tax, and     
           adjustments for other significant non-recurring, infrequent or unusual items, when (a) the nature of
the charge or gain is such that it is reasonably unlikely to recur within two years, or (b) there has been no similar charge or gain within the prior two years.    
  202  

Summarized revenue data for each of the Company's business segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating
costs and expenses.    

203  

Summarized financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as follows:   

(1)     During
the fourth quarter of 2008, for traditional life insurance and immediate annuities with life contingencies, an aggregate premium
deficiency of $336 million, pre-tax ($219 million, after-tax) resulted primarily from an experience study indicating that the annuitants on certain
life-contingent contracts are projected to live longer than the Company anticipated when the contracts were issued, and, to a lesser degree, a reduction in the related investment portfolio
yield. The deficiency was recorded through a reduction in DAC.       (2)     For
presentation in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, service fees of the Corporate and Other segment are reclassified to operating
costs and expenses.    

204  

Additional significant financial performance data for each of the Company's reportable segments for the years ended December 31 are as
follows:   

Interest expense is primarily incurred in the Corporate and Other segment. Capital expenditures for long-lived assets are generally
made in the Property-Liability segment. A portion of these long-lived assets are used by entities included in the Allstate Financial and Corporate and Other segments and, accordingly, are
charged expenses in proportion to their use.   

         Summarized
data for total assets and investments for each of the Company's reportable segments as of December 31 are as follows:   

The balances above reflect the elimination of related party investments between segments.   

  205  

19.  Other Comprehensive Income     

         The components of other comprehensive income (loss) on a pre   -   tax and after-tax basis for the years
ended December 31 are as follows:   

20.  Quarterly Results (unaudited)     

206  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To
the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
The Allstate Corporation 
Northbrook, IL 60062   

  We
have audited the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related
Consolidated Statements of Operations, Comprehensive Income, Shareholders' Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. We also have audited the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in    Internal Control-Integrated
Framework    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying     Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures   . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.   

  We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.   

  A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing
similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   

  Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to
error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are
subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   

  In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in    Internal Control   Integrated Framework    issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   

  In
2009, the Company changed its recognition and presentation for other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 24, 2011   

  207  

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     

  None.

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures     

           Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e)
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive officer
and the principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in providing reasonable assurance that material information required to be disclosed in our
reports filed with or submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the
Securities Exchange Act and made known to management, including the principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.   

           Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal
control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

         Under
the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 based on the criteria related to internal control over financial reporting described in "Internal
Control   Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, management concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010.   

         Deloitte  
Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K,
has issued their attestation report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting, which is included herein.   

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2010, there have been no changes in
our
internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.    

    Item 9B.  Other Information     

         The following disclosures relate to actions taken by the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation and its committees on
February 22, 2011 and would otherwise have been reported during the first fiscal quarter of 2011 on a Form 8-K under the heading "Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or
Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers."   

         On
February 22, 2011, the Board of Directors approved the amendments to the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan to provide for a revised retirement vesting provision and for beneficiary
designations by participants; and approved revisions to form of option and restricted stock unit (RSU) award agreements.   

  208  

Part III     

    Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance     

         Information regarding directors of The Allstate Corporation standing for election at the 2011 annual stockholders meeting is
incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to the descriptions in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Management Proposals to be Voted On   Proposal 1. Election of
Directors."   

         Information
regarding our audit committee and audit committee financial experts is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to the first paragraph of the discussion under the
captions "Corporate Governance Practices and Code of Ethics   Board Committees   Audit Committee" in the Proxy Statement.   

         Information
regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to "Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the Proxy Statement.   

         Information
regarding executive officers of The Allstate Corporation is incorporated in this Item 10 by reference to Part I, Item 1 of this report under the caption
"Executive Officers."   

         We
have adopted a code of ethics that applies to all of our employees, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and controller. The text of our code of
ethics is posted on our Internet website, allstate.com.    

Item 11.  Executive Compensation     

         Information required for Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the following
captions:   

Corporate Governance Practices and Code of Ethics   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation     
           Director Compensation     
           Executive Compensation    
 
  209  

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     

         Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is incorporated in this Item 12 by
reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement with the following captions:   

Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers     
           Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners    

Equity Compensation Plan Information     

The
following table includes information as of December 31, 2010 with respect to The Allstate Corporation's equity compensation plans:   

(1)     Consists
of the Equity Incentive Plan; the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan, which amended and restated the 2001 Equity Incentive Plan; the Equity
Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors; and the 2006 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.       (2)     Outstanding
restricted stock units ("RSUs") convert to common stock without the payment of consideration. As of December 31, 2010,
3,756,637 RSUs were outstanding. The weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants, and rights excluding RSUs was $39.39.       (3)     Includes
20,899,641 shares that may be issued in the form of stock options, unrestricted stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
stock appreciation rights, performance units, performance stock, and stock in lieu of cash under the 2009 Equity Incentive Plan; and 313,189 shares that may be issued in the form of stock options,
unrestricted stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and stock in lieu of cash compensation under the 2006 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.    

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence     

         Information required for Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions "Related
Person Transactions" and "Corporate Governance Practices and Code of Ethics   Determinations of Independence of Nominees for Election."    

Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services     

         Information required for Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the material in the Proxy Statement under the captions
"Management Proposals to be Voted On   Proposal 2. Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accountant."   

  210  

Part IV     

    Item 15.  (a) (1) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.     

         The following consolidated financial statements, notes thereto and related information of The Allstate Corporation (the "Company") are
included in Item 8.   

  Consolidated
Statements of Operations 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
Quarterly Results 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

    Item 15.  (a) (2)     

         The following additional financial statement schedules and independent auditors' report are furnished herewith pursuant to the
requirements of Form 10-K.   

The Allstate Corporation

Page   

Schedules required to be filed under the provisions of Regulation S-X Article 7:  

Schedule I  
      
   Summary of Investments   Other than Investments in Related Parties  
      
   S-1  

Schedule II  
     
  Condensed Financial Information of Registrant (The Allstate Corporation)  
     
  S-2  

Schedule III  
     
  Supplementary Insurance Information  
     
  S-6  

Schedule IV  
     
  Reinsurance  
     
  S-7  

Schedule V  
     
  Valuation Allowances and Qualifying Accounts  
     
  S-8  

Schedule VI  
     
  Supplementary Information Concerning Consolidated Property-Casualty Insurance Operations  
     
  S-9  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     
  S-10  

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not required, or because the required information is included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements or in notes thereto.    

    Item 15.  (a) (3)     

         The following is a list of the exhibits filed as part of this Form 10-K. The exhibit numbers followed by an asterisk
(*) indicate exhibits that are management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements. A dagger ( ) indicates an award form first used under The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity
Incentive Plan, which was amended and restated as The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan. The SEC File Number for the exhibits incorporated by reference is 1-11840.   

3(i)  
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 17, 2007, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K
filed May 18, 2007  

3(ii)  
      
   Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Allstate Corporation effective September 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed
September 19, 2008  

4(iii)  
      
   The Allstate Corporation hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request, the instruments defining the rights of holders of each issue of long-term debt of it and its consolidated subsidiaries  

10.1  
      
   Credit Agreement dated May 8, 2007, among The Allstate Corporation, Allstate Insurance Company and Allstate Life Insurance Company, as Borrowers; the Lenders party thereto, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
as Syndication Agent; Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Documentation Agents; Barclays Bank, PLC, Morgan Stanley Bank and William Street Commitment Corporation, as Co-Agents; and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent;
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed May 9, 2007  

10.2  
      
   Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of May 22, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed May 27,
2008  

211  

212  

10.21*  
     
  The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective September 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to The Allstate Corporation
current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.22*  
      
   The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors as amended and restated effective September 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to The Allstate Corporation
current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.23*  
      
   The Allstate Corporation 2006 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective September 15, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to The Allstate
Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.24*  
      
   Form of Option Award Agreement under The Allstate Corporation 2006 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to The Allstate Corporation current report
on Form 8-K filed May 19, 2006  

10.25*  
      
   Form of amended and restated Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement with regards to awards outstanding on September 15, 2008 under The Allstate Corporation 2006 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors,
incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.26*  
      
   Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for awards granted on or after September 15, 2008 under The Allstate Corporation 2006 Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.9 to The Allstate Corporation current report on Form 8-K filed September 19, 2008  

10.27*  
      
   Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and Director incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to The Allstate Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 30, 2007  

10.28*  
      
   Resolutions regarding Non-Employee Director Compensation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to The Allstate Corporation annual report on Form 10-K for 2009  

10.29*  
      
   Resolutions regarding Non-Employee Director Compensation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to The Allstate Corporation quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
2010  

12  
      
   Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratio  

21  
      
   Subsidiaries of The Allstate Corporation  

23  
      
   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

31 (i)  
      
   Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Executive Officer  

31 (i)  
      
   Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Principal Financial Officer  

32  
      
   Section 1350 Certifications  

101.INS  
      
   XBRL Instance Document  

101.SCH  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema  

101.CAL  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase  

101.DEF  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase  

101.LAB  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase  

101.PRE  
      
   XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase  

Item 15.  (b)     

         The exhibits are listed in Item 15. (a)(3) above.    

    Item 15.  (c)     

The financial statement schedules are listed in Item 15. (a)(2) above.   

  213  

SIGNATURES     

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION 
(Registrant)  

/s/ Samuel H. Pilch 

By: Samuel H. Pilch 
(Controller)  

February 22, 2011  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ Thomas J. Wilson 

Thomas J. Wilson  
     
  Chairman of the Board, President, Chief Executive Officer and a 
Director (Principal Executive Officer)  
     
  February 22, 2011  

/s/ Don Civgin 

Don Civgin  
      
   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
(Principal Financial Officer)  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ F. Duane Ackerman 

F. Duane Ackerman  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ Robert D. Beyer 

Robert D. Beyer  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ W. James Farrell 

W. James Farrell  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ Jack M. Greenberg 

Jack M. Greenberg  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ Ronald T. LeMay 

Ronald T. LeMay  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ Andrea Redmond 

Andrea Redmond  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ H. John Riley, Jr. 

H. John Riley, Jr.  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ Joshua I. Smith 

Joshua I. Smith  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ Judith A. Sprieser 

Judith A. Sprieser  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

/s/ Mary Alice Taylor 

Mary Alice Taylor  
      
   Director  
      
   February 22, 2011  

214  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE I   SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS 
OTHER THAN INVESTMENTS IN RELATED PARTIES 
DECEMBER 31, 2010     

S-1  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II    
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-2  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)    
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION     

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-3  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)    
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     

See accompanying notes to condensed financial information and notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

  S-4  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II (CONTINUED)    
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 
NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION     

   1.    General     

         The financial statements of the Registrant should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Item 8.
The long-term debt presented in Note 11 "Capital Structure" are direct obligations of the Registrant, with the exception of the following obligations as of December 31:   

Effective September 30, 2009, the Registrant became the sponsor of the postretirement benefit plans presented in Note 16 "Benefit
Plans". Prior to September 30, 2009, a subsidiary of the Registrant was the sponsor of the plans.   

   2.    Supplemental Disclosures of Non-Cash Investing Activity and Cash Flow Information     

The Registrant's assumption of the obligations associated with the postretirement benefit plans previously sponsored by a subsidiary of the Registrant resulted in
a non-cash increase in the Registrant's investment in subsidiaries of $448 million.   

         The
Registrant paid $360 million, $380 million and $344 million of interest on debt in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

  S-5  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE III   SUPPLEMENTARY INSURANCE INFORMATION     

(1)     A
single investment portfolio supports both Allstate Protection and Discontinued Lines and Coverages segments.    
  S-6  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE IV   REINSURANCE     

(1)     No
reinsurance or coinsurance income was netted against premium ceded in 2010, 2009 or 2008.    

S-7  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE V   VALUATION ALLOWANCES AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS     

S-8  

THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE VI   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION CONCERNING 
CONSOLIDATED PROPERTY-CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS     

S-9  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

  To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
The Allstate Corporation 
Northbrook, IL 60062   

  We
have audited the consolidated financial statements of The Allstate Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2010, and the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, and have issued our report thereon dated February 24, 2011
(which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change in the Company's recognition and presentation for other-than-temporary
impairments of debt securities in 2009); such consolidated financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated
financial statement schedules of the Company listed in the accompanying index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, such consolidated financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.   

  /s/
Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 24, 2011   

  S-10  

<EX-10.4>
 2
 a2202090zex-10_4.htm
 EX-10.4

EXHIBIT 10.4   
     
  THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION  
     
  DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN  
     
  AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF  
     
  January 1, 2011  

ARTICLE I  
     
   DESIGNATION OF PLAN AND DEFINITIONS   
     
  1.1                                     TITLE AND PURPOSE  
     
  (a)                          Title.  This Plan shall be known as  The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan.   
     
  (b)                             Purpose.  This Plan was established by The Allstate Corporation for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for eligible employees.  The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan maintained for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( ERISA ).  With respect to amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2005, this Plan is intended to be a nonqualified deferred compensation plan maintained in conformity with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and shall be interpreted accordi
ngly.  
     
  (c)                              Effective Date and Plan History.  The Plan was adopted by Allstate Insurance Company effective January 1, 1995.  The Plan was amended and restated by the Company, effective January 1, 1996, November 11, 1997, September 1, 1999, November 1, 2000, November 1, 2001, June 1, 2002, October 7, 2002, May 28, 2004, December 31, 2008, and July 31 2009.  The Plan was further amended and restated by the Company, effective January 1, 2011.  The terms of this Plan are effective for all benefits under the Plan that are not fully distributed as of Janua
ry 1, 2005, except that actions taken on or after January 1, 2005 and prior to December 31, 2008, are subject to the terms of the then existing Plan and, as applicable, a reasonable and good faith interpretation of Code Section 409A and the transition guidance provided thereunder.  
     
  1.2                                     GENERAL DEFINITIONS  
     
  Unless expressly stated otherwise, the following definitions will apply:  
     
  (a)                           Account  shall mean nominal bookkeeping entries made to state the balance of a Participant s benefit under the Plan.  A Participant s benefit under the Plan shall be comprised of the total of all sub-accounts, which may include a Pre-2005 Sub-  
     
  Page 2    

Account and Post-2004 Sub-Account.   Account  shall also mean any amounts deferred by a Participant, as adjusted for earnings and debits, under The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Employee Agents and The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractor Exclusive Agents.  
     
  (b)                          Beneficiary  or  Contingent Beneficiary  shall mean the person or persons last designated in writing by the Participant to the Committee, in accordance with Section 8.4 of this Plan.  
     
  (c)                           Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.  
     
  (d)                          Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, including regulations and guidance of general applicability issued thereunder.  
     
  (e)                           Committee  shall mean the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Article VI of this Plan, and shall mean those persons to whom the Committee has delegated administrative duties pursuant to Section 6.1(g).  
     
  (f)                             Company  shall mean The Allstate Corporation.  
     
  (g)                          Compensation  shall mean all of the items included in the term  Annual Compensation  as that term is defined in the Allstate Retirement Plan without regard to the annual compensation limit imposed by Code Section 401(a)(17).  
     
  (h)                          Compensation Floor  shall be the compensation limit in effect pursuant to Code Section 401(a)(17) for a Plan Year.  
     
  (i)                              Controlled Group  shall mean any corporation or other business entity which is included in a controlled group of corporations, within the meaning of section 1563(a)(i) of the Code, within which the Company is also included.  
     
  (j)                              Current Plan Year  shall mean the Plan Year in which amounts are deferred pursuant to a valid deferral election, in accordance with Section 2.2.  
     
  (k)                           Eligible Compensation  shall mean the greater of (i) an Employee s projected  Compensation based on his or her Compensation for the month ending on December 31 of the Prior Plan Year, annualized in such manner as the Committee shall determine; (ii) an Employee s projected annualized base salary based on his or her Compensation for the month ending on December 31 of the Prior Plan Year,  
     
  Page 3    

annualized in such manner as the Committee shall determine; or (iii) an Employee s Compensation for the calendar year two years before a Plan Year.  For purposes of this definition,  Compensation  shall not include any bonus amounts paid on a monthly, quarterly or other nonannual basis.  
     
  (l)                              Eligible Employee  shall mean any Employee who the Committee determines shall be eligible to participate in the Plan and whose (i) Eligible Salary is expected to exceed the Compensation Floor, or (ii) Eligible Compensation is expected to exceed the Compensation Floor for the Plan Year and, therefore, is eligible to make a deferral under Article II of this Plan.  
     
  (m)                        Eligible Salary  shall mean an Employee s base salary during the Prior Plan Year annualized in such manner as the Committee shall determine, plus any bonus amounts paid on a monthly, quarterly or other nonannual basis included as Compensation during the Prior Plan Year up through the date the Employee s eligibility is determined, as set forth by the Committee.  
     
  (n)                          Employee  shall mean any regular, full-time employee of the Employer, but shall in no event include persons classified as agents.  If a person is not considered to be an  Employee  for purposes of Plan eligibility, a later change in the person s status, even if the change in status is applicable to prior years, will not have a retroactive effect for Plan purposes.  
     
  (o)                          Employer  shall mean the Company, Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company, Allstate Bank and any other entity within the Controlled Group that adopts the terms of the Plan, as agreed to by the entity s Board of Directors, with the approval of the Committee.  
     
  (p)                          Hardship  shall apply only to a Participant s Pre-2005 Sub-Account and shall mean the occurrence of a distribution that satisfies the requirements of Code section 401(k)(2)(B)(i)(IV) from a tax-qualified plan maintained by an Employer, with the approval of the Committee.  
     
  (q)                          Incentive  shall mean the amount actually payable to a Participant under an annual cash incentive program sponsored by the employer.  An Incentive earned during a Plan Year becomes payable in the calendar year next following the Plan Year.  Any bonus amounts earned for periods of less than 12 months or that are payable to a  
     
  Page 4    

Participant on a monthly, quarterly or any other nonannual basis under any cash incentive or award program shall not be considered an Incentive under this Plan.  
     
  (r)                             Investment  shall mean the elections made by Participants, as allowed for in Section 4.3 of the Plan, to allocate and reallocate deferrals and Account balances among the Investment Options described in Section 4.3(b), together with accruals and adjustments reflecting the hypothetical experience of the Investment Options.  
     
  (s)                           Participant  shall mean an Eligible Employee who has an Account balance in the Plan.  
     
  (t)                             Plan  shall mean The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan as set forth herein, and as amended from time to time in accordance with Article VII hereof.  
     
  (u)                          Plan Year  shall mean the fiscal year of the Company, which is a calendar year.  
     
  (v)                          Post-2004 Sub-Account  shall mean a nominal bookkeeping sub-account of the Participant s Account established to state the balance of (i) Compensation deferred by a Participant under the Plan on or after January 1, 2005, as adjusted pursuant to Article IV of the Plan, (ii) any cash amounts automatically directed to this Plan on or after January 1, 2005 by action of the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation or a committee thereof; and (iii) earnings and losses on amounts contributed pursuant to (i) and (ii) of this subsection, pursuant to Article IV.   Post-2004 Sub-A
ccount shall refer to the total of the Participant s benefit under this Plan with respect to amounts deferred or otherwise credited on or after January 1, 2005, pursuant to Section 4.2.  
     
  (w)                        Pre-2005 Sub-Account  shall mean a nominal bookkeeping sub-account of the Participant s Account established to state the balance of (i) Compensation that was fully earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, and deferred by a Participant under the terms of the Plan then in effect; (ii) any cash amounts automatically directed to this Plan and fully earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 by action of the Board of Directors of The Allstate Corporation or a committee thereof; and (iii) subsequent earnings and losses on amounts contributed pursuant to (i) and (ii) of this subsection, pursuant to Article IV.  
     
  Page 5    

(x)                            Prior Plan Year  shall mean the Plan Year immediately preceding the Current Plan Year.  
     
  (y)                          Separation from Service  shall mean the termination of employment or cessation or reduction of services by a Participant that results in a distribution as specifically defined and determined under Article V of the Plan.   Separation from Service  shall have distinct meanings with respect to the Pre-2005 Sub-Account and the Post-2004 Sub-Account, as set forth in Article V of the Plan.  
     
  (z)                            Unforeseeable Financial Emergency  shall apply only to a Participant s Post-2004 Sub-Account and shall mean a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent (as defined in Section 152 of the Code, without regard to Sections 152(b)(1), 152(b)(2) and 152(d)(1)(B) of the Code); loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of th
e Participant; but shall not include any of the foregoing to the extent such emergency is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation from insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not cause severe financial hardship), or by cessation of deferrals under the Plan.  In making its determination, the Committee shall be guided by the prevailing authorities applicable under the Code so as to result in the Participant not being in constructive receipt or subject to penalties under Code Section 409A with respect to any distribution or cancellation of a deferral due to an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.  
     
  ARTICLE II  
     
   PARTICIPATION   
     
  2.1                                     PARTICIPATION AND DEFERRAL ELECTIONS  
     
  An Eligible Employee shall become a Participant upon the filing of an election to defer base salary or Incentive and shall continue as a Participant until his or her Account has been fully paid pursuant to the provisions of Article V.  An election to defer base salary  
     
  Page 6    

or Incentives shall specify the percentage of compensation to be deferred under the Plan for a Plan Year.  An election to defer base salary or Incentive shall be filed in the manner and at the time that the Committee may specify in its discretion from time to time.  
     
  2.2                                     TIMING OF DEFERRAL ELECTIONS  
     
  (a)                          In no event shall a Participant be permitted to make a deferral election with respect to his or her base salary after December 31 of the calendar year preceding the Plan Year in which such deferral election shall take effect.  All elections to defer base salary for a Plan Year shall be irrevocable as of December 31 of the preceding Plan Year (or such earlier date as may be determined by the Committee from time to time) and, therefore, may not be changed by either the Committee or the Participant after December 31 (or such earlier date, if applicable).  
     
  (b)                         An election to defer Incentive shall be filed no later than December 31 of the calendar year preceding the Plan Year in which services are first performed with respect to such Incentive, unless the Committee determines that a Participant s Incentive constitutes  performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  In such case, the Committee may establish a later date for the filing of Incentive deferral elections; provided that, as of such date established by the Committee, Incentive is not readily ascertainable within the meaning of Code Section 409A, and further provided that such 
date shall in no event be later than 6 months prior to the end of the applicable performance period for such Incentive.  Such deferral election shall be irrevocable as of the filing date established by the Committee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant s election made in 2008 to defer Incentive earned in 2008 shall apply to the Participant s entire Incentive earned in 2008, including any amounts that may not constitute performance-based compensation.  To the extent a Participant s election made in 2008 results in a deferral of any portion of the Participant s Incentive that does not constitute performance-based compensation, such deferral election shall be deemed to be a transition relief election pursuant to Code Section 409A.  
     
  (c)                           Evergreen  Deferral Elections.  The Committee may in its discretion establish rules from time to time under which deferral elections provided in this Section  2.2 shall remain in effect for all succeeding Plan Years in which the Participant is  
     
  Page 7    

eligible to make a deferral election unless and until the Participant files a subsequent deferral election.  
     
  (d)                         Hardship and Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.  Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section 2.2, the Committee may in its sole discretion rescind a deferral election of a Participant if the Participant experiences a Hardship or upon the Committee s determination that the Participant has experienced an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.  Any subsequent election to defer shall be subject to the terms of this Section 2.2(a) and (b).  
     
  ARTICLE III  
     
   DEFERRALS   
     
  3.1                                     AMOUNT OF DEFERRAL  
     
  (a)                          Elections made pursuant to Section 2.2(a) to defer base salary shall be made in whole number percentages up to eighty (80) percent and shall apply only to base salary payable on or after the Participant has earned Compensation in the Plan Year equal to the Compensation Floor for the Plan Year.  
     
  (b)                         Elections made pursuant to Section 2.2(b) to defer Incentive shall be made in whole number percentages up to one hundred (100) percent.  If a Participant s Compensation (determined solely for this purpose on an annualized basis as of the date that such election becomes irrevocable pursuant to Section 2.2(b)) does not exceed the Compensation Floor, the election to defer Incentive shall be reduced dollar for dollar until the total of such Compensation and the Incentive that is not deferred and is payable to the Participant equals the Compensation Floor.  
     
  3.2                                     EFFECTIVE DATE OF DEFERRAL  
     
  Compensation deferred shall be credited to a Participant s Account by bookkeeping entry as set forth in Section 4.2.  
     
  Page 8    

3.3                                     USE OF AMOUNTS DEFERRED  
     
  Amounts credited to Accounts shall be a part of the general funds of the Company, shall be subject to all the risks of the Company s business, and may be deposited, invested or expended in any manner whatsoever by the Company.  
     
  ARTICLE IV  
     
   ACCOUNTS AND VESTING   
     
  4.1                                     ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNT  
     
  The Committee shall establish, by bookkeeping entry on the books of the Company, an Account for each Participant.  Accounts shall not be funded in any manner.  
     
  4.2                                     CONTRIBUTIONS TO ACCOUNT  
     
  The Committee shall cause deferred Compensation to be credited by bookkeeping entry to each Participant s Account as of the last day of the month in which the Compensation or any cash amounts automatically directed to this Plan otherwise would have been payable to the Participant, or as soon thereafter as is administratively practicable.  
     
  4.3                                     MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNT BALANCES - INVESTMENT  
     
  (a)                          A Participant may make an Investment with respect to amounts in his or her Account.  Each Investment shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the Committee and shall specify that portion of the Participant s deferrals on the date of such election to be invested in each Investment Option (as defined in Section 4.3(b) below).  In its sole discretion, the Committee may withhold one or more of the Investment Options from Investment by Participants for a Plan Year or Years.  Investments of deferrals must be made in whole percentage increments.  
     
  Each Account shall be adjusted, as applicable, to apply contributions, dividend equivalents, investment gains and losses net of any Plan administration and investment expenses, and distributions.  All such adjustments shall be bookkeeping entries reflecting hypothetical experience for the Investment Options in which Investments are made.  
     
  Page 9    

(b)                         The Investment Options in which Investments may be made are:  
     
  (1)                          Investment Option #1   Stable Value Fund. The Stable Value Fund, managed by Invesco Advisors, Inc., ( Invesco ) includes a number of investment contracts issued by a diversified group of high quality insurance companies, banks, and other financial institutions (excluding Allstate companies), each backed by a diversified bond portfolio.  
     
  The investment contracts are supported by use of investment portfolios holding a diversified mix of high quality fixed-income securities. The average credit quality of all of the investments backing the Stable Value Fund contracts is AA/Aa or better as measured by Standard   Poor s or Moody s credit rating services. The average credit quality of the issuers of investment contracts utilized in the fund is also AA/Aa. Derivative securities may be used for hedging and replication purposes only. U.S. Treasury securities and U.S. Treasury futures may be used to manage interest rate risk.  
     
  The credited rate of interest of the Stable Value Fund is the average return of all investments held in the fund.  
     
  (2)                                  Investment Option #2   Bond Fund.  The Bond Fund invests in the U.S. Bond Index Non-Lending Series Fund - Class A (formerly named the Passive Bond Market Index Non-Lending Series Fund   Class A), a collective fund managed by State Street Global Advisors (SSgA).  The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Barclays Capital U.S. Aggregate Index (the  Barclays Index ).  The Barclays Index is an index representative of well-diversified exposure to the overall U.S. bond market.  More specifically, it covers the dollar-denominated investment-grade fixed-rate taxable bond market, including U.S. Treasuries, government-related and corporate securities, mortgaged pass-through securities, asset-backed securities, and commercial mortgage-backed securities.  The portfolio is managed duration-neutral to the Barclays Index at all times.  Overall sector and quality weightings are also matched to the Barclays Index, with individual security selection based upon security availability and SSgA s analysis of its impact on the portfolio s weightings.  
     
  Page 10    

The Bond Fund no longer invests in securities lending funds; it invests 100% in non-lending funds.  
     
  (3)                                Investment Option #3   S P 500 Fund(1).  The S P 500 Fund invests in the S P 500 Index Non-Lending Series Fund   Class A (formerly named the S P 500 Flagship Non-Lending Series Fund - Class A), a collective fund managed by SSgA. The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Standard   Poor s (S P) 500 (the  S P 500 Index ) over the long term.  The S P 500 Index consists of large capitalization stocks across over 24 industry groups and 500 stocks chose
n for market size, liquidity and industry group representation. The fund seeks to maintain the returns of the S P 500 Index by investing in a portfolio that replicates the S P 500 Index by owning securities in the same capitalization weights as they appear in the S P 500 Index.  
     
  The S P 500 Fund no longer invests in securities lending funds; it invests 100% in non-lending funds.  
     
  (4)                                Investment Option #4   International Equity Fund.  The International Equity Fund invests in the Global Equity ex U.S. Index Non-Lending Series Fund - Class A, a collective fund managed by SSgA.  The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) ACWI ex-USA Index (the  ACWI ex-USA Index ) over the long term. The ACWI ex-USA Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization weighted index that is designed to measure the equity market performance of developed and emer
ging markets.  The ACWI ex-USA Index consists of approximately 1,800 stocks in selected markets with emerging markets representing approximately 20%.  MSCI attempts to capture approximately 85% of the total market capitalization in   

(1)   Standard   Poor s  , S P , S P 500 Index  and  Standard   Poor s 500 Index  are trademarks of McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and have been licensed for use by State Street Bank and Trust Company.  The product is not sponsored, endorsed, listed, sold or promoted by Standard   Poor s ( S P ), and S P makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in this product.  
     
  Page 11    

each country. The fund seeks to maintain the returns of the ACWI ex-USA Index by investing in a portfolio that replicates the ACWI ex-USA Index.  
     
  The International Equity Fund no longer invests in securities lending funds; it invests 100% in non-lending funds.  
     
  Restrictions apply to reallocations of money into the International Equity Fund. This means that you are prohibited from using the reallocation feature to move money into the International Equity Fund within any 30-calendar day period following the date you moved money out of the International Equity Fund through reallocation. Any subsequent reallocation of money out of the International Equity Fund during a 30-calendar day restriction period will start a new 30-day restriction period. The 30-calendar day restriction does not apply to employee deferrals into the International Equity Fund or to hardship withdrawals from the International Equity Fund.  
     
  Reallocations or transfers of money out of the International Equity Fund are allowed at any time. The restriction applies only to reallocations into the International Equity Fund.  
     
  (5)         Investment Option #5   Russell 2000 Fund(2).  The Russell 2000 Fund invests in the Russell Small Cap Index Non-Lending Series Fund   Class A (formerly named the Russell 2000 Index Non-Lending Series Fund - Class A), a collective fund managed by SSgA. The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the Russell 2000 Index, over the long term. The Russell 2000 Index is a subset of the Russell 3000 Index and includes approximately 2,000 of the smallest securities based on a combination of their market capitalization and current index memberships.   The fund seeks to match the return of the Russell 2000 Index by investing in a portfolio that holds the securities of the Russell 2000 Index.  
     
  The Russell 2000 Fund no longer invests in securities lending funds; it invests 100% in non-lending funds  

(2)  Russell Investment Group is the source and owner of the trademarks, service marks, and copyrights relating to the Russell Indexes. Russell  2000       Index is a trademark of the Russell Investment Group.  
     
  Page 12    

(6)       Investment Option #6 - The Mid-Cap Fund(3).  The Mid-Cap Fund invests in the S P Mid-Cap Index Non-Lending Series Fund   Class A, a collective fund managed by    SSgA.    The fund s objective is to approximate as closely as practicable, before expenses, the performance of the S P Mid-Cap 400 (the  Mid-Cap Index ) over the long term.  The Mid-Cap Index is a cap-weighted index that measures the performance of the mid-range sector of the U.S. stock market.  The fund seeks to match the return of the Mid-Cap Index by investing in a portfolio that holds the securities of the Mid-Cap Index.  
     
  (c)                          A Participant may change his Investment elections at such time and in such manner, and with respect to such existing Account balances and future contributions, as the Committee shall determine; any such changes to be effective only in accordance with such procedures as established from time to time by the Committee.  Any reallocations of existing Account balances must be made in whole percentage increments.  A reallocation election will become effective as set forth in Plan procedures.  Any reallocations of existing Account balances made under this Plan will simultaneously apply to any amounts the Participant may have defer
red under either The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Employee Agents or The Allstate Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Independent Contractor Exclusive Agents.  
     
  4.4                                     VESTING  
     
  A Participant shall be fully vested in his or her Account at all times, subject to Sections 3.3, 8.2 and 8.3.  

(3)  S P MidCap 400       Index is a trademark of Standard   Poor s Financial Services LLC.,  and has been licensed for use by State Street Bank and Trust. The product is not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard   Poor s (S P), and S P makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in this product.  
     
  Page 13    

ARTICLE V  
     
   PAYMENTS   
     
  5.1                                     EVENTS CAUSING ACCOUNTS TO BECOME DISTRIBUTABLE  
     
  (a)            Pre-2005 Sub-Account.   All references to  Account  in this Section 5.1(a) shall refer solely to the portion of a Participant s Account, if any, that is the Pre-2005 Sub-Account.  
     
  (1)                              A Participant s Account shall become distributable upon notification to the Plan of the Participant s Separation from Service or, at the election of the Participant pursuant to Section 5.3(a), in one of the first through fifth years after Separation from Service.  In either event, the Participant may elect to receive payment in a lump sum or in annual installments as provided in Section 5.3(a).  
     
  For purposes of this Section 5.1(a),  Separation from Service  shall mean the termination of a Participant s employment with any company in the Controlled Group for any reason whatsoever, including retirement, resignation, dismissal or death, but does not include a transfer of status to an employee agent or to an Exclusive Agent Independent Contractor or Exclusive Financial Specialist Independent Contractor for Allstate Insurance Company, Allstate New Jersey Insurance Company, Allstate Life Insurance Company or for any other member of the Controlled Group.   Separation from Service  shall also mean the subsequent termination of any Exclusive Agent Independent Contractor or Exclusive Financial Specialist Independent Contractor agreement, unless such termination results from acceptance of employment with any member of the Controlled Group.  
     
  (2)                              That portion of a Participant s Account determined to be necessary to alleviate a demonstrated Hardship shall become distributable upon the date of such determination, subject to Section 5.2.  
     
  (3)                              Special Distribution Rule for Participants Prior to September 1, 1999.  For those Participants who irrevocably elected to do so on or before September  
     
  Page 14    

1, 1999, such Participants may receive a distribution as of the first day of any Plan Year prior to his or her Separation from Service. The portion of the Participant s Account attributable to Compensation deferred, and accruals thereon, shall be distributed on the date elected.  Any balance in the Participant s Account remaining after any payment under this paragraph and any balance in the Account attributable to participation in the Plan in any year subsequent to the year in which a payout on such date certain occurs, shall become distributable to the Participant as 
provided in paragraphs (1), (2) or (3) of this Section 5.1(a).  
     
  (4)                              Effective September 1, 1999, a Participant may at any time irrevocably elect to receive distribution of his or her entire Account balance, subject to the forfeiture to the Company of 10% of such Account balance and subject to suspension of deferrals in the Plan by the Participant for the remainder of the Plan Year and for the next succeeding Plan Year ( Suspension Period ). Such election will cause any pending election of Incentive deferrals payable during the Suspension Period to be voided.  The Participant s Account balance shall become distributable subject to Section 5.2 following t
he date of such election.  
     
  (5)                              In the event of a Participant s death prior to distribution of his or her entire Account balance, the remaining Account balance shall become distributable following the date on which all events have occurred which entitle the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries to payment.  
     
  (b)                                      Post-2004 Sub-Account.    All references to  Account  in this Section 5.1(b) shall refer solely to the portion of a Participant s Account, if any, that is the Post-2004 Sub-Account.  
     
  (1)                              Distributions of the Account shall be made (in the case of a lump sum) or commence (in the case of installments) on the first day of the first calendar month that commences after the six (6) month anniversary of the Participant s Separation from Service.  Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 5.3, distributions shall be in the form of a single lump sum payment.  For purposes of this Section 5.1(b),  Separation from Service  shall mean a termination of employment upon which a Participant ceases   
     
  Page 15    

performing services for all entities within the Controlled Group. Notwithstanding, a Separation from Service shall also include a reduction in a Participant s rate of services to any such entity that is reasonably anticipated to be a permanent reduction to a rate that is 20 percent or less of the average rate of services performed by the Participant in the 36 months prior to such reduction.  If a Participant ceases or reduces services under a bona fide leave of absence, a Separation from Service occurs after the close of the 6-month anniversary of such leave; provided, howe
ver, that if the Participant has a statutory or contractual right to reemployment, the Separation from Service shall be delayed until the date that the Participant s right ceases or, if the Participant resumes services, until the Participant subsequently Separates from Service.  For purposes of determining whether a Participant has a Separation from Service, services taken into account shall include services performed for the Company as an independent contractor but not services performed as a non-employee member of the board of directors of any entity within the Controlled Group.  Determination of whether a Separation from Service occurs shall be made in a manner that is consistent with Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(h).  
     
  (2)                              In the event of a Participant s death prior to the full distribution of his or her Account, the undistributed Account shall be distributed to the Participant s Beneficiary within 90 days of the Participant s death.  
     
  (3)                              The Committee retains sole discretion to determine whether and to what extent all or any portion of an Account may be payable on account of an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.  If the Committee determines that such distribution shall be made, payment shall be made within 30 days of the determination of Unforeseeable Financial Emergency and the Committee may, in its discretion, determine how any partial distribution of the Account shall be allocated among the hypothetical Investment options applicable to such Account.  
     
  (4)                              Payment Dates.  If a payment is due on a nonbusiness day or a federal or state holiday, such payment shall be due on the next succeeding business day.  
     
  Page 16    

5.2                                     NOTICE OF ACCOUNT PAYMENT AND COMMENCEMENT OF DISTRIBUTION FOR PRE-2005 SUB-ACCOUNTS  
     
  The Committee or its appointed representative shall notify a Participant or Beneficiary, as the case may be, as soon as practicable after the first day of the month next following the date on which the Pre-2005 Sub-Account becomes distributable, that he or she is entitled to receive payment from the Pre-2005 Sub-Account, the balance of which shall be computed as of the close of business on the last day of the month in which the Pre-2005 Sub-Account becomes distributable.  Distribution of Pre-2005 Sub-Account balances shall commence as soon as practicable after the first day of the month next following the date on which the Pre-2005 Sub-Account becomes distributable.  
     
  5.3                                     FORM OF PAYMENT  
     
  (a)                          Except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section 5.3 and Article VIII hereof, payments of Account balances to a Participant shall be in the form of one lump sum payment or annual cash installment payments over a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 10 years, at the election of the Participant.  The provisions of this Section 5.3 apply separately to the Pre-2005 Sub-Account and the Post-2004 Sub-Account and, accordingly, different forms of payments may be made from each such sub-account.  
     
  (b)                         The amount of each annual installment payable to a Participant who has elected to receive installment payments shall be as follows:  The first annual installment payment shall, for a Participant who has elected to receive installment payments commencing upon his or her Separation from Service, be computed as of the close of business on the last day of the month in which the Account becomes distributable, and the amount of such payment shall equal his or her Account balance as of such date, divided by the number of installments including the one being paid.  The first annual installment payment shall, for a Participant who has elected 
to receive installment payments commencing in one of the first through fifth years after Separation from Service, be computed as of the close of the first business day of the year preceding the year in which the Account balance becomes  
     
  Page 17    

distributable, and the amount of such payment shall equal his or her Account balance as of such date, divided by the number of installments including the one being paid.  Each subsequent installment payment shall be computed as of the close of the last business day of the year thereafter, and the amount of each subsequent payment shall equal his or her remaining Account balance, divided by the number of remaining installments including the one being paid.  Investment gains or losses and other adjustments shall continue with respect to the entire unpaid Account balance, as provided in Section 4.3.  
     
  (c)                          In the event of a Participant s death prior to distribution of his or her entire Account balance, the remaining Account balance shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant s Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, subject to Sections 5.1(a)(5) and 5.1(b)(2).  
     
  (d)                         Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, if the Account balance is $5,000 or less on any date a payment is to be made to a Participant, the payment shall be the remaining unpaid Account balance.  
     
  5.4                                     DISTRIBUTION ELECTION  
     
  (a)                          Each Participant shall elect his or her desired form of payment, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, at the time of his or her initial participation election set forth in Section 2.1.  
     
  (b)                         This Section 5.4(b) shall apply solely with respect to Pre-2005 Sub-Accounts.  Except for distribution elections under Section 5.1(a)(3) and (4), each Participant may from time to time revise the terms of distribution of the Participants Accounts, in accordance with the procedures established by the Committee, provided that (i) the revised notice of the desired form of payment shall be made by the Participant no less than twelve months prior to the date on which payment is to commence, but in any event no later than the day before the date of the Participant s Separation from Service and (ii) in any event
, distribution of the Participant s Account shall not commence earlier than twelve months after the Participant s revised notice of the desired form of payment is made.  
     
  Page 18    

(c)                          This Section 5.4(c) shall apply solely with respect to Post-2004 Sub-Accounts.  Installments shall be paid only if a Participant filed an irrevocable election to receive installment payments in a manner acceptable to the Committee on or before the later of December 31, 2008, or the date of the Participant s initial election to defer base salary or Incentive under the Plan.  Installment payments shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments for purposes of Code Section 409A.  
     
  ARTICLE VI  
     
   ADMINISTRATION   
     
  6.1                                     GENERAL ADMINISTRATION; RIGHTS AND DUTIES  
     
  The Board shall appoint the Committee, which, subject to the express limitations of the Plan, shall be charged with the general administration of the Plan on behalf of the Participants.  The Committee shall also be responsible for carrying out its provisions, and shall have all powers necessary to accomplish those purposes, including, but not by way of limitation, the following:  
     
  (a)                      To construe and interpret the Plan;  
     
  (b)                     To compute the amount of benefits payable to Participants;  
     
  (c)                      To authorize all disbursements by the Company of Account balances pursuant to the Plan;  
     
  (d)                     To maintain all the necessary records for the administration of the Plan;  
     
  (e)                      To make and publish rules for administration and interpretation of the Plan and the transaction of its business;  
     
  (f)                        To make available to each Participant the current value of his or her Account;  
     
  (g)                     To delegate the administration of the Plan in accordance with its terms to officers or employees of the Company, of Allstate Insurance Company or of an independent consultant retained by the Committee who the Committee believes to be reliable and competent.  The Committee may authorize officers or employees of the Company or of Allstate Insurance Company to whom it has delegated duties under the Plan to appoint other persons to assist the delegate in  
     
  Page 19    

administering the Plan; and  
     
  (h)                     To refuse to accept the deferral of amounts the Committee or its delegate considers too small to be administratively feasible.  
     
  The determination of the Committee as to any disputed question or controversy shall be conclusive.  
     
  6.2                                     CLAIMS PROCEDURES  
     
  Each Participant or Beneficiary (for purposes of this Section 6.2. referred to as a  Claimant ) may submit a claim for benefits to the Committee (or other person designated by the Committee) in writing in such form as is permitted by the Committee.  A Claimant shall have no right to seek review of a denial of benefits, or to bring any action in any court to enforce a claim for benefits, prior to his filing a claim for benefits and exhausting his rights to review in accordance with this Section 6.2.  
     
  A properly filed claim for benefits shall be evaluated and the Claimant shall be notified in writing of the approval or the denial within ninety (90) days after the receipt of such claim unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim.  If such an extension of time is required, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial ninety (90) day period, and such notice shall specify the special circumstances requiring an extension and the date by which a final decision will be reached (which date shall not be later than one hundred and eighty (180) days after the date on which the claim was filed).  Written notice to a Claimant shall advise whether the claim is granted or denied, in whole or in part, and if denied, shall contain (1) the specific reasons for the denial, (2) re
ferences to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based, (3) a description of any additional material or information necessary to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (4) the Claimant s rights to seek a review of the denial.  
     
  If a claim is denied, in whole or in part, the Claimant shall have the right to request that the Committee (or person designated by the Committee) review the denial, provided that he files a written request for review with the Committee within sixty (60) days after the   
     
  Page 20    

date on which he received written notice of the denial.  A Claimant (or his duly authorized representative) may review pertinent documents and submit issues and comments in writing to the Committee.  Within sixty (60) days after a request for review is received, the review shall be made and the Claimant shall be advised in writing of the decision on review, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the review, in which case the Claimant shall, within such initial sixty (60) day period, be given a written notice specifying the reasons for the extension and when such review shall be completed (provided that such review shall be completed within one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date on which the request for review was filed).  The decision on review shall be forwarded to the Claimant in writing and shall include specific reasons 
for the decision and references to Plan provisions upon which the decision is based.  A decision on review shall be final and binding on all persons for all purposes.  
     
  ARTICLE VII  
     
   PLAN AMENDMENTS AND TERMINATION   
     
  7.1                                     AMENDMENTS  
     
  The Company shall have the right to amend this Plan from time to time by resolutions of the Board or by the Committee, and to amend or rescind any such amendments; provided, however, that no action under this Section 7.1 shall in any way reduce the amount of Compensation deferred or reduce the value of any Account.  All amendments shall be in writing and shall be effective as provided subject to the limitations in this Section 7.1.  
     
  7.2                                     TERMINATION OF PLAN  
     
  The Company expects that the Plan will continue indefinitely but continuance of the Plan is not a contractual or other obligation of the Company.  The Company reserves its right to discontinue the Plan at any time by resolution of the Board; however, no such action shall reduce the value of an Account or result in a distribution that does not conform to the requirements of Code Section 409A.  
     
  Page 21    

ARTICLE VIII  
     
   MISCELLANEOUS   
     
  8.1                                     NOTIFICATION TO COMMITTEE  
     
  Any election made or notification given by a Participant pursuant to this Plan shall be made in accordance with procedures established by the Committee or its designated representative, and shall be deemed to have been made or given on the date received by the Committee or such representative.  
     
  8.2                                     PARTICIPANT S EMPLOYMENT  
     
  Participation in this Plan shall not give any Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company, Allstate Insurance Company of any member of the Controlled Group, or any other right or interest other than as herein provided.  No Participant or Employee shall have any right to any payment or benefit except to the extent provided in this Plan.  
     
  8.3                                     STATUS OF PARTICIPANTS  
     
  This Plan shall create only a contractual obligation on the part of the Company and shall not be construed as creating a trust or other fiduciary relationship with Participants.  Participants will have only the rights of general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to Compensation deferred and investment gains and losses credited to their Accounts.  
     
  8.4                                     BENEFICIARIES AND CONTINGENT BENEFICIARIES  
     
  (a)                                      Beneficiary Designation.  Each Participant shall, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, designate one or more persons or entities (including a trust or trusts or his or her estate) to receive distribution of his or her Account that are not distributed prior to the Participant s death.  The Participant may also designate a person or persons as a Contingent Beneficiary who shall succeed to the rights of the person or persons originally designated as Beneficiary, in case the latter should die.  The Participant may from time to time ch
ange any  
     
  Page 22    

designation of Beneficiary or Contingent Beneficiary so made, by submitting a new designation in accordance with procedures established by the Committee.  The last valid designation made by a Participant under the Plan, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, shall be controlling.  
     
  (b)                                     Spousal Consent Required.  In the event a Participant designates a person other than his or her spouse as Beneficiary of any interests under this Plan, the Participant s spouse shall sign a notarized statement specifically approving such designation and authorizing the Committee to make payment of such interests in the manner provided in such designation.  In the absence of such designation by the Participant, or in the absence of spousal approval and authorization as herein above provided, or in the event of the death, prior to or simultaneous with the death of t
he Participant, of all Beneficiaries or Contingent Beneficiaries, as the case may be, to whom payments were to be made pursuant to a designation by the Participant, such payments or any balance thereof shall be paid to the Participant s spouse or, if there is no surviving spouse, to the Participant s estate, or, if there is no estate, according to the Illinois laws of descent and distribution.  
     
  (c)                                      Death of Beneficiary.  In the event of the death, subsequent to the death of the Participant, of a Beneficiary or Contingent Beneficiary, as the case may be, to whom such payments were to be made or were being made pursuant to a designation under this section, such payments or any balance thereof shall be paid to the estate of such Beneficiary or Contingent Beneficiary.  
     
  8.5                                     TAXES AND OTHER CHARGES  
     
  To the extent permitted by law, if the whole or any part of a Participant s Account shall become the subject of any federal, state or local tax which the Company shall legally be required to withhold or pay, the Company shall reduce an Account with respect to such tax paid.  
     
  8.6                                     BENEFITS NOT ASSIGNABLE; OBLIGATIONS BINDING UPON SUCCESSORS  
     
  Benefits under this Plan and rights to receive the amounts credited to the Account of a Participant shall not be assignable or transferable and any purported transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance or attachment of any payments or benefits under this Plan   
     
  Page 23    

shall not be permitted or recognized.  Obligations of the Company under this Plan shall be binding upon successors of the Company.  
     
  8.7                                     ILLINOIS LAW GOVERNS; SAVING CLAUSE  
     
  The validity of this Plan or any of its provisions shall be construed and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Illinois.  If any provisions of this Plan shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective.  
     
  8.8                                     HEADINGS NOT PART OF PLAN  
     
  Headings and subheadings in this Plan are inserted for reference only, and are not to be considered in the construction of the provisions hereof.  
     
  Page 24    

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 3
 a2202090zex-10_5.htm
 EX-10.5

EXHIBIT 10.5   
     
   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   
   2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN   
     
   Article 1.               Establishment, Purpose and Duration   
     
  1  .1            Establishment of the Plan .  The Allstate Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter, together with any successor as provided in Article 18 herein, referred to as the  Company ), hereby establishes an incentive compensation plan for employees, as set forth in this document.  The Plan permits the grant of nonqualified stock options (NQSOs), incentive stock options (ISOs), stock appreciation rights (SARs), unrestricted stock, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance units, performance stock and other awards.  
     
  The Plan was formerly known as  The Allstate Corporation 2001 Equity Incentive Plan.   The Plan was approved by the Board of Directors on March 13, 2001 and became effective when approved by the Company s stockholders on May 15, 2001 (the  Effective Date ).  The Plan was amended by the Board of Directors on March 9, 2004.  On March 14, 2006 the Plan was amended and restated effective upon approval by stockholders at the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 16, 2006.  The Plan was further amended and restated by the Board at meetings held on September 10, 2006, February 20, 2007, and September 15, 2008.  On March 10, 2009, the Plan was amended, restated and renamed as  The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan,  effective upon approval by stockholders at the 2009 Annual Meetin
g of Stockholders on May 19, 2009.  The Plan was further amended and restated on February 22, 2011 and shall thereafter remain in effect as provided in Section 1.3 herein.  
     
  1  .2            Purpose of the Plan . The primary purpose of the Plan is to provide a means by which employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries can acquire and maintain stock ownership, thereby strengthening their commitment to the success of the Company and its Subsidiaries and their desire to remain employed by the Company and its Subsidiaries.  The Plan also is intended to attract and retain employees and to provide such employees with additional incentive and reward opportunities designed to encourage them to enhance the profitable growth of the Company and its Subsidiaries.  
     
  1  .3            Duration of the Plan .  The Plan shall commence on the Effective Date, as described in Section 1.1 herein, and shall remain in effect subject to the right of the Board of Directors to terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Article 15 herein, until all Stock subject to it shall have been purchased or acquired according to the Plan s provisions.  
     
   Article 2.               Definitions   
     
  Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when such meaning is intended, the initial letter of the word is capitalized:  
     
  2  .1            Award  means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of NQSOs, ISOs, SARs, Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Performance Stock or any other type of award permitted under Article 10 of the Plan.  
     
  2  .2            Award Agreement  means an agreement setting forth the terms and provisions applicable to an Award granted to a Participant under the Plan.  

2  .3            Base Value  of an SAR means the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date the SAR is granted.  
     
  2.4            Beneficiary  means a person or entity designated as a beneficiary in accordance with Section 6.7.  
     
   2.5          Beneficiary Designation Form    means a form provided by the Company for the purpose of designating a beneficiary in accordance with Section 6.7.  
     
  2  .6            Board  or  Board of Directors  means the Board of Directors of the Company.  
     
  2  .7            Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.  
     
  2  .8            Committee  means the committee, as specified in Article 3, appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.  
     
  2  .9            Company  has the meaning provided in Section 1.1 herein.  
     
  2  .10          Covered Employee  means any Participant who would be considered a  covered employee  for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.  
     
  2  .11          Disability  means an impairment which  renders a Participant disabled within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C).  
     
  2  .12          Dividend Equivalent  means, with respect to Stock subject to an Award (other than an Option or SAR), a right to be paid an amount equal to cash dividends, other than large, nonrecurring cash dividends, declared on an equal number of outstanding shares of Stock.  
     
  2  .13          Eligible Person  means a Person who is eligible to participate in the Plan, as set forth in Section 5.1 herein.  
     
  2  .14          Employee  means an individual who is paid on the payroll of the Company or of one of the Company s Subsidiaries, who is not covered by any collective bargaining agreement to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is a party, and is classified on the employer s human resource payroll system as a regular full-time or regular part-time employee.  
     
  2  .15          Exchange Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act thereto.  
     
  2  .16          Exercise Period  means the period during which an SAR or Option is exercisable, as set forth in the related Award Agreement.  
     
  2  .17          Fair Market Value  means the price at which a share of the Stock was last sold in the principal United States market for the Stock as of the date for which fair market value is being determined.  
     
  2    

2  .18              Family Member  means any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, domestic partner, or sibling, including adoptive relationships, a trust in which these persons have more than fifty (50) percent of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the Employee) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Employee) own more than fifty (50) percent of the voting interests.  
     
  2  .19          Freestanding SAR  means an SAR that is not a Tandem SAR.  
     
  2.20          Full-Value Award  means an Award granted on or after May 19, 2009, other than an Option or a SAR.  
     
  2  .21          Incentive Stock Option  or  ISO  means an option to purchase Stock, granted under Article 6 herein, which is designated as an Incentive Stock Option and satisfies the requirements of Section 422 of the Code.  
     
  2  .22          Minimum Consideration  means the $.01 par value per share or such larger amount determined pursuant to resolution of the Board to be capital within the meaning of Section 154 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.  
     
  2  .23          Nonqualified Stock Option  or  NQSO  means an option to purchase Stock, granted under Article 6 herein, which is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option under Section 422 of the Code.  
     
  2  .24          Option     means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.  
     
  2  .25          Option Exercise Price  means the price at which a share of Stock may be purchased by a Participant pursuant to an Option, as determined by the Committee and set forth in the Option Award Agreement.  
     
  2  .26          Participant  means an Eligible Person who has outstanding an Award granted under the Plan.  
     
  2  .27          Performance-Based Compensation  means an Award intended to qualify for the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code as set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code.  
     
  2.28          Performance Goals  means the performance goals established by the Committee, which shall be based on one or more of the following measures:  sales, revenues, premiums, financial product sales, earnings per share, stockholder return and/or value, funds from operations, operating income, gross income, net income, combined ratio, underwriting income, cash flow, return on equity, return on capital, return on assets, values of assets, market share, net earnings, earnings before interest, operating ratios, stock price, customer satisfaction, customer retention, customer loyalty, strategic business criteria based on meeting specified revenue goals, market penetration goals, investment performance goals, business expansion goals or cost targets, accomplishment of mergers, acquisitions, dispositions or similar extraordinary business transac
tions, profit returns and margins,   
     
  3    

financial return ratios, market performance and/or risk-based capital goals or returns.  Performance Goals may be based solely on a corporate, subsidiary, business unit or other grouping basis, or a combination thereof.  Performance Goals may reflect absolute entity performance or a relative comparison of entity performance to the performance of a peer group of entities or other external measure.  
     
  2  .29          Performance Period  means the time period during which Performance Unit/Performance Stock Performance Goals must be met.  
     
  2  .30          Performance Stock  means an Award described in Article 9 herein.  
     
  2  .31          Performance Unit  means an Award described in Article 9 herein.  
     
  2  .32          Period of Restriction  means the period during which the transfer of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units is limited in some way, as provided in Article 8 herein.  
     
  2  .33          Person  means any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust, unincorporated organization, association, corporation, institution, public benefit corporation, entity or government instrumentality, division, agency, body or department.  
     
  2  .34            Plan  means The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan.  
     
  2  .35          Qualified Restricted Stock  means an Award of Restricted Stock designated as Qualified Restricted Stock by the Committee at the time of grant and intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.  
     
  2  .36          Qualified Restricted Stock Unit  means an Award of Restricted Stock Units designated as Qualified Restricted Stock Units by the Committee at the time of grant and intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.  
     
  2  .37          Reload Option  means an additional Option related to Options awarded prior to 2004 as described in Article 6 herein.  
     
  2  .38                                Restricted Stock    means an Award described in Article 8 herein.  
     
  2  .39          Restricted Stock Unit  means an Award described in Article 8 herein.  
     
  4    

2  .40          Retirement  means a Participant s termination from employment with the Company or a Subsidiary at the Participant s Early or Normal Retirement Date, as applicable.  
     
  (a)                                       Early Retirement Date       
     
  (i)                                         For Awards granted before February 22, 2011, shall mean the date prior to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date on which a Participant terminates employment, if such termination date occurs on or after the Participant attains age fifty-five (55) with twenty (20) years of service and such retirement is in accordance with the voluntary early retirement policy of the Company or the Subsidiary with which the Participant is employed on the date of termination of employment.  
     
  (ii)                                      For Awards granted on or after February 22, 2011, shall mean the date prior to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date on which a Participant terminates employment, if such termination date occurs on or after the Participant attains age fifty-five (55) with ten (10) years of service.  
     
  (b)                                        Normal Retirement Date      shall have the meaning given to it by the Company or the Subsidiary with which the Participant is employed on the date of termination of employment, provided that such termination is voluntary and occurs on or after the Participant attains age sixty (60) with at least one (1) year of service at termination of employment.  
     
  2.41          Section 409A  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 19.5 herein.  
     
  2  .42          Section 16 Officer  means any Participant who was designated by  the Board as an  executive officer  or as an officer for purposes of Section 16 of the 1934 Act.  
     
  2  .43          Securities Act  means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  
     
  2  .44          Stock  means the common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company.  
     
  2  .45          Stock Appreciation Right  or  SAR  means a right, granted alone or in connection with a related Option, designated as an SAR, to receive a payment on the day the right is exercised,   
     
  5    

pursuant to the terms of Article 7 herein. Each SAR shall be denominated in terms of one share of Stock.  
     
  2  .46          Subsidiary  means any corporation, business trust, limited liability company or partnership with respect to which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities representing more than 50% of the aggregate Voting Power of the then-outstanding Voting Securities.  
     
  2  .47          Tandem SAR  means an SAR that is granted in connection with a related Option, the exercise of which shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase Stock under the related Option (and when Stock is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall be similarly canceled).  
     
  2  .48          Termination of Employment  occurs the first day on which an individual is for any reason no longer employed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or with respect to an individual who is an Employee of a Subsidiary, the first day on which the Company no longer owns, directly or indirectly, Voting Securities possessing at least 50% of the Voting Power of such Subsidiary.  For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its Subsidiaries (or between Subsidiaries) shall not be deemed a termination of employment.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no issuance of Stock or payment of cash shall be made upon a Termination of Employment with respect to any Award that constitutes deferred compensation for purposes of S
ection 409A unless the Termination of Employment constitutes a  separation from service  as that term is used in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Code.  
     
  2  .49          Unrestricted Stock  means an Award of Stock not subject to restrictions described in Article 8 herein.  
     
  2  .50          Voting Power  for purposes of Sections 2.46 and 2.48 means the combined voting power of the then-outstanding Voting Securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors.  
     
  2  .51          Voting Securities  of a corporation means securities of such corporation that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such corporation.  
     
   Article 3.               Administration   
     
  3  .1            The Committee . The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Succession Committee or such other committee (the  Committee ) as the Board of Directors shall select, consisting solely of two or more nonemployee members of the Board.  The members of the Committee shall be appointed from time to time by, and shall serve at the discretion of, the Board of Directors.  
     
  3  .2            Authority of the Committee .  The Committee shall have full power except as limited by law, the articles of incorporation or the bylaws of the Company, subject to such other restricting limitations or directions as may be imposed by the Board and subject to the provisions herein, to determine the Eligible Persons to receive Awards; to determine when Awards may be granted and to grant Awards under the Plan; to determine the size and types of Awards; to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards; to assess whether Performance Goals have been met; to construe and   
     
  6    

interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the Plan; to establish, amend or waive rules and regulations for the Plan s administration; to amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award, including but not limited to amendments with respect to exercisability and non-forfeitability of Awards upon a Termination of Employment; to make such adjustments or modifications to Awards to Participants working outside the United States as are necessary or advisable to fulfill the purposes of the Plan; to accelerate the exercisability of, and to accelerate or waive any or all of the restrictions and conditions applicable to, any Award; and to authorize any action of or make any determination by the Company as the Committee shall deem necessary or advisable for carrying out the purposes of the Plan;  provided ,  however , that the Committee may not amend the terms and con
ditions of any outstanding Award so as to adversely affect in any material way such Award without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award (or if the Participant is not then living, the Participant s personal representative or estate), unless such amendment is required by applicable law; and  provided ,  further , that any discretion exercised by the Committee pursuant to Section 4.2 and the following paragraph of this Section 3.2 shall not be deemed to adversely affect in any material way an Award.  The Committee may designate which Subsidiaries participate in the Plan and may authorize foreign Subsidiaries to adopt plans as provided in Article 14.  Further, the Committee shall interpret and make all other determinations which may be necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.  As permitted by law, the Committee may delegate its authorities as identified hereunder.  
     
  If the Committee determines it is in the best interest of the Company s stockholders to cancel any Awards granted hereunder, it may, in its discretion, elect at any time to cancel all or any of the Awards granted hereunder and pay the holders of any such Awards an amount (payable in such proportion as the Committee may determine in cash or in Stock (valued at the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of cancellation of such Award)) equal to (i) for Options, the number of shares of Stock subject to such cancelled Option, multiplied by the amount (if any) by which the Fair Market Value of Stock on the date of cancellation of the Option exceeds the Option Exercise Price; (ii) for Restricted Stock or Performance Stock, the number of shares of Restricted Stock or Performance Stock multiplied by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the date of cancellation of the Award; and (i
ii) for Restricted Stock Units or Performance Units, the number of units multiplied by an amount not less than the initial value thereof;  provided ,  however , the Committee shall not exercise discretion and pay the holder of any Award in cash or Stock to the extent such Award constitutes deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A.  Amounts payable may be prorated based upon the number of months elapsed in any related vesting period or Performance Period, in the sole discretion of the Committee.  Except in connection with a corporate transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, large, nonrecurring cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off or other transaction or event described in Section 4.2), the terms of outstanding Awards may not be amended to reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or SARs or to cancel outstanding Options or SARs in exchange for other Awards o
r Options or SARs with an Option Exercise Price or Base Value, as applicable, that is less than the Option Exercise Price or Base Value of the original Options or SARs, without stockholder approval.  
     
  3.3            Delegation of Authority.   Notwithstanding the general authority of the Committee to grant Awards under the Plan, the Board may, by resolution, expressly delegate to another committee, established by the Board and consisting of one or more employee or non-employee directors, the   
     
  7    

authority, within parameters specified by the Board, to determine the Eligible Persons to receive Awards; to determine when Awards may be granted and to grant Awards under the Plan; to determine the size and types of Awards; and to determine the terms and conditions of such Awards; provided, however that such committee may not grant Awards to Eligible Persons who (i) are subject to Section 16    of the Exchange Act at the time of grant, or (ii) are at the time of grant, or are anticipated to become during the term of the Award,  covered employees  as defined in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.  Such committee shall report regularly to the Committee, who shall report to the Board, regarding any Awards so granted.  
     
  3  .4            Delivery of Stock by Company; Restrictions on Stock .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have no liability to deliver any Stock or benefits under the Plan unless such delivery would comply with all applicable laws (including, without limitation, the Code, the Securities Act, and the Exchange Act) and applicable requirements of any securities exchange or similar entity and unless the Participant s tax obligations have been satisfied as set forth in Article 16.  
     
  The Committee may impose such restrictions on any Stock acquired pursuant to Awards under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions to comply with applicable Federal securities laws, with the requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Stock is then listed and/or traded and with any blue sky or state securities laws applicable to such Stock.  
     
  3  .5            Decisions Binding .  All determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and all related orders or resolutions of the Board shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders, Eligible Persons, Employees, Participants and their Beneficiaries and estates.  No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award.  
     
  3  .6            Costs . The Company shall pay all costs of administration of the Plan.  
     
   Article 4.               Stock Subject to the Plan   
     
  4  .1            Number of Shares .  Subject to Section 4.2 herein, the maximum number of shares of Stock available for grant under the Plan shall be 70,380,000 shares (which includes the 37,000,000 shares originally provided in the Plan as approved by stockholders in 2001, as increased to 49,000,000 shares as approved by stockholders in 2006) plus any shares of Stock remaining for awards pursuant to the terms of The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan.  The number of shares of Stock to which an Award pertains shall be counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 as two and one-tenth (2.1) shares of Stock for each Full Value Award and as one (1) share of Stock for each other type of Award.  Shares of Stock underlying lapsed or forfeited Aw
ards of Restricted Stock shall not be treated as having been issued pursuant to an Award under the Plan.  Shares of Stock that are potentially deliverable under an Award that expires or is cancelled, forfeited, settled in cash or otherwise settled without delivery of shares of Stock shall not be treated as having been issued under the Plan.  With respect to an SAR that is settled in Stock, the full number of shares underlying the exercised portion of the SAR shall be treated as having been issued under the Plan, regardless of the number of shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise.  Shares of  
     
  8    

Stock that are tendered or withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations related to an Award or to satisfy the Option Exercise Price related to an Option or other Award shall be deemed to be shares of Stock issued under the Plan.  If, before June 30, 2003, the Option Exercise Price is satisfied by tendering Stock, only the number of shares issued net of the shares tendered shall be deemed issued under the Plan.  For avoidance of doubt, if a share of Stock that underlies an Award other than a Full-Value Award was counted against the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 and pursuant to this Section 4.1 subsequently is treated as having not been issued under the Plan, the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 shall be credited with one share of Stock, and if a share of Stock pertaining to a Full-Value Award was counted against the maximum share limitation of this Sect
ion 4.1 and pursuant to this Section 4.1 subsequently is treated as having not been issued under the Plan, the maximum share limitation of this Section 4.1 shall be credited with 2.1 shares of Stock.  Stock granted pursuant to the Plan may be (i) authorized but unissued shares of common stock or (ii) treasury stock.  
     
  4  .2            Adjustments in Authorized Stock and Awards .  In the event of any equity restructuring (within the meaning of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004)) that causes the per share value of shares of Stock to change, such as a stock dividend, stock split, spin off, rights offering, or recapitalization through a large, nonrecurring cash dividend, the Committee shall cause there to be made an equitable adjustment to (i) the number and kind of shares available for grant under the Plan, (ii) the number of shares or Awards that may be granted to any individual under the Plan or that may be granted pursuant to any Articles or types of Awards and (iii) the number and kind of shares or units subject to and the Option Exercise Price or Base Value (if ap
plicable) of any then outstanding Awards of or related to shares of Stock.  In the event of any other change in corporate capitalization, such as a merger, consolidation, any reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition of such term in Section 368 of the Code) or any partial or complete liquidation of the Company, such equitable adjustments described in the foregoing sentence shall be made as may be determined to be appropriate and equitable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to prevent dilution or enlargement of rights.  In either case, any such adjustment shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes of the Plan.  Unless otherwise determined by the Board upon recommendation of the Committee, the number of shares of Stock subject to an Award shall always be a whole number.  In no event shall an outstanding Option or SAR be amended for the sole purpose of reducing the Option Exercise Price or Base Value thereof, without stockholder approval
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) each such adjustment with respect to an Incentive Stock Option shall comply with the rules of Section 424(a) of the Code and (ii) in no event shall any adjustment be made which would render any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder to be other than an incentive stock option for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.  
     
  4  .3            Award Limitations .  Subject to Section 4.2 above, the following limitations shall apply to Awards intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation: (i) the total number of shares of Stock with respect to which Options or SARs may be granted in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed 4,000,000 shares; (ii) the total number of shares of Qualified Restricted Stock or Qualified Restricted Stock Units that may be granted in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed 3,000,000 shares or Units, as the case may be; (iii) the total number of shares of Performance Stock that may be granted in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed 4,000,000 shares and the maximum amount that may be paid pursuant to Performance Units gr
anted in any one calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed $10,000,000; (iv) the total number of   
     
  9    

shares of Stock granted pursuant to Article 10 herein in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed 4,000,000 shares; (v) the total cash Award that may be paid pursuant to an Award granted under Article 10 herein in any calendar year to any Participant shall not exceed $10,000,000; and (vi) the aggregate value of cash dividends (other than large, nonrecurring cash dividends) or Dividend Equivalents that a Participant may receive in any calendar year shall not exceed $11,500,000.  
     
  The maximum number of shares of Stock that may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options shall be 5,500,000 shares.  
     
   Article 5.               Eligibility and Participation   
     
  5  .1            Eligibility .  Persons eligible to participate in the Plan ( Eligible Persons ) include all Employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as determined by the Committee.  
     
  5  .2            Actual Participation . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all Eligible Persons those to whom Awards shall be granted.  
     
   Article 6.               Stock Options   
     
  6  .1            Grant of Options .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Options may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.  
     
  The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of shares of Stock subject to Options granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such Options.  The Committee may grant ISOs, NQSOs or a combination thereof.  
     
  6  .2            Option Award Agreement .  Each Option grant shall be evidenced by an Option Award Agreement that shall specify the Option Exercise Price, the term of the Option (which shall not be greater than ten (10) years), the number of shares of Stock to which the Option pertains, the Exercise Period and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control.  The Option Award Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or NQSO.  The Option Exercise Price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date of grant.  No Dividend Equivalents shall be provided with respect to Options.  
     
  6  .3            Exercise of and Payment for Options .  Options granted under the Plan shall be exercisable at such times and shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve.  
     
  A Participant may exercise an Option at any time during the Exercise Period.  Options shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to the Company, or such method acceptable to the Company, setting forth the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by provision for full payment of the Stock.  
     
  10    

The Option Exercise Price shall be payable:  (i) in cash or its equivalent, (ii) by tendering (by actual delivery of shares or by attestation) previously acquired Stock (owned for at least six months) having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Exercise Price, (iii) by broker-assisted cashless exercise, (iv) with respect to Options granted on and after May 16, 2006, by share withholding or (v) by a combination of (i), (ii), (iii) and/or (iv).  
     
  Options may not be exercised for less than 25 shares of Stock unless the exercise represents the entire remaining balance of the Award.  
     
  Stock received upon exercise of an Option may be granted subject to restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.  
     
  6  .4            Reload Options Related to Options Granted Prior to 2004 .  The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement with respect to an Option granted prior to 2004 that a Participant who exercises all or any portion of an Option with Stock which has a Fair Market Value equal to not less than 100% of the Option Exercise Price for such Option shall be granted, subject to Article 4, an additional option ( Reload Option ) for a number of shares of Stock equal to the sum ( Reload Number ) of the number of shares of Stock tendered in payment of the Option Exercise Price for the Options plus, if so provided by the Committee, the number of shares of Stock, if any, retained by the Company in connection with the exercise of the Options to satisfy any federal, state or
 local tax withholding requirements.  Reload Options may not be included in any Option Awards granted in 2004 or later.  
     
  To the extent that a Reload Option is granted upon exercise of Options granted prior to 2004, the Reload Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:  
     
  (i)            the grant date for each Reload Option shall be the date of exercise of the Option to which it relates;  
     
  (ii)           subject to (iii) below, the Reload Option, upon vesting, may be exercised at any time during the unexpired term of the Option to which it relates (subject to earlier termination thereof as provided in the Plan and in the applicable Award Agreement); and  
     
  (iii)          the terms of the Reload Option shall be the same as the terms of the Option to which it relates, except that (A) the Option Exercise Price shall be the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the grant date of the Reload Option and (B) the Reload Option shall be subject to new vesting provisions, commencing one (1) year after the grant date of the Reload Option and vesting upon the same schedule as the Option to which it relates.  
     
  Reload Options may not be granted to Participants who exercise Options after a Termination of Employment.  
     
  Stock subject to this Plan may be used for Reload Options granted under The Allstate Corporation Equity Incentive Plan.  
     
  11    

6  .5            Termination .  Each Option Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option following termination of the Participant s employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee (subject to applicable law), shall be included in the Option Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all Options granted pursuant to the Plan or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.  
     
  To the extent the Option Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.  
     
  6  .6            Transferability of Options .  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, all Options granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant, and no Option granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  ISOs are not transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The Committee shall have the authority, in its discretion, to grant (or to sanction by way of amendment to an existing Award) Nonqualified Stock Options, the vested portions of which may be transferred by the Participant during his lifetime to any Family Member.  A transfer of an Option pursua
nt hereto may only be effected by the Company at the written request of a Participant and shall become effective only when recorded in the Company s record of outstanding Options.  In the event an Option is transferred as contemplated herein, any Reload Options associated with such transferred Option shall terminate, and such transferred Option may not be subsequently transferred by the transferee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  Otherwise, a transferred Option shall continue to be governed by and subject to the terms and limitations of the Plan and the relevant Award Agreement, and the transferee shall be entitled to the same rights as the Participant, as if no transfer had taken place.  In no event shall an Option be transferred for consideration.  
     
  6.7            Designation of Beneficiary.   (a)  Each Participant may designate a Beneficiary who shall have the right to exercise the Option in the event of the Participant s death.  Participants shall designate a Beneficiary by executing a Beneficiary Designation Form.  A Beneficiary designation is not binding on the Company unless it receives a properly completed Beneficiary Designation Form prior to the Participant s death.  If no designation is made or no designated Beneficiary is alive (or in the case of an entity designated as a Beneficiary, in existence) at the time of the Participant s death, the executor or personal representative of the Participant s estate shall have the right to exercise the Option.  If there is any question as to the legal right of any Beneficiary to exer
cise the Option under the Plan, the Company may determine in its sole discretion whether to provide the right of exercise to the executor or personal representative of the Participant s estate.  The Company s determination shall be binding and conclusive on all persons and it will have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Option.  
     
  (b)  Change of Beneficiary Designation . A Participant may change an earlier Beneficiary designation by executing a later Beneficiary Designation Form. The execution of a Beneficiary Designation Form revokes and rescinds any prior Beneficiary Designation Form.  
     
  12    

Article 7.               Stock Appreciation Rights   
     
  7  .1            Grant of SARs .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, an SAR may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time as shall be determined by the Committee.  The Committee may grant Freestanding SARs, Tandem SARs or any combination of these forms of SARs.  
     
  The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of SARs granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such SARs.  
     
  7  .2            SAR Award Agreement .  Each SAR grant shall be evidenced by an SAR Award Agreement that shall specify the number of SARs granted, the Base Value (which shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant), the term of the SAR (which shall not be greater than ten (10) years), the Exercise Period and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control.  No Dividend Equivalents shall be provided with respect to SARs.  
     
  7  .3            Exercise and Payment of SARs .  Tandem SARs may be exercised for all or part of the Stock subject to the related Option upon the surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related Option.  A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the shares of Stock for which its related Option is then exercisable.  
     
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR granted in connection with an ISO:  (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than one hundred percent (100%) of the difference between the Option Exercise Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised; (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Exercise Price of the ISO; and (iv) the Tandem SAR may be transferred only when the underlying ISO is transferable, and under the same conditions.  
     
  Freestanding SARs may be exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole discretion, imposes upon them.  
     
  A Participant may exercise an SAR at any time during the Exercise Period.  SARs shall be exercised by the delivery of a written notice of exercise to the Company, or such method acceptable to the Company, setting forth the number of SARs being exercised.  Upon exercise of an SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount equal to the product of:  
     
  (a)                                      the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise over (ii) the Base Value multiplied by  
     
  (b)                                     the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the SAR is exercised.  
     
  13    

At the sole discretion of the Committee, the payment to the Participant upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in shares of Stock of equivalent value or in some combination thereof.  
     
  7  .4            Termination .  Each SAR Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR following termination of the Participant s employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the SAR Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all SARs granted pursuant to the Plan or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.  
     
  To the extent the SAR Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.  
     
  7  .5            Transferability of SARs .  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, all SARs granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or his or her legal representative, and no SAR granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  To the extent the Committee permits the transfer of an SAR, in no event shall an SAR be transferred for consideration.  
     
   Article 8.               Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock      and Restricted Stock Units   
     
  8  .1            Grant of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.  
     
  The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of shares of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such Awards.  
     
  In addition, the Committee may, prior to or at the time of grant, designate an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units as Qualified Restricted Stock or Qualified Restricted Stock Units, as the case may be, in which event it will condition the grant or vesting, as applicable, of such Qualified Restricted Stock or Qualified Restricted Stock Units, as the case may be, upon the attainment of the Performance Goals selected by the Committee.  
     
  8  .2            Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement .  Each grant of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the number of shares of Unrestricted Stock, Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units granted, the initial value (if applicable), the Period or Periods of Restriction (if applicable), and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control.  
     
  14    

8  .3            Transferability .  Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Award Agreement.  During the applicable Period of Restriction, all rights with respect to the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units granted to a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only to such Participant or his or her legal representative.  
     
  8  .4            Certificates .  No certificates representing Stock shall be delivered to a Participant until such time as all restrictions applicable to such shares have been satisfied.  
     
  8  .5            Removal of Restrictions .  Restricted Stock shall become freely transferable by the Participant after the last day of the Period of Restriction applicable thereto.  Once Restricted Stock is released from the restrictions, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a certificate.  
     
  Payment of Restricted Stock Units shall be made after the last day of the Period of Restriction applicable thereto.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay Restricted Stock Units in cash or in shares of Stock of equivalent value (or in some combination thereof).  
     
  8  .6            Voting Rights .  During the Period of Restriction, Participants may exercise full voting rights with respect to the Restricted Stock.  
     
  8  .7            Dividends and Other Distributions .  Subject to the Committee s right to determine otherwise at the time of grant, during the Period of Restriction, Participants shall receive all cash dividends, other than large, nonrecurring cash dividends, paid with respect to the Restricted Stock while they are so held.  All other distributions paid with respect to such Restricted Stock shall be credited to Participants subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid and shall be paid to the Participant promptly after the full vesting of the Restricted Stock with respect to which such distributions were made.  
     
  Rights, if any, to Dividend Equivalents on Restricted Stock Units shall be established by the Committee at the time of grant and set forth in the Award Agreement.  
     
  8  .8            Termination .  Each Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive Restricted Stock and/or a Restricted Stock Unit payment following termination of the Participant s employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all grants of Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Units or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination.  
     
  To the extent the Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.  
     
  15    

Article 9.               Performance Units and Performance Stock   
     
  9  .1            Grant of Performance Units and Performance Stock .  Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Performance Units and/or Performance Stock may be granted to an Eligible Person at any time and from time to time, as shall be determined by the Committee.  
     
  The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the number of Performance Units and/or shares of Performance Stock granted to each Eligible Person (subject to Article 4 herein) and, consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and conditions pertaining to such Awards.  
     
  9  .2            Performance Unit/Performance Stock Award Agreement .  Each grant of Performance Units and/or shares of Performance Stock shall be evidenced by a Performance Unit and/or Performance Stock Award Agreement that shall specify the number of Performance Units and/or shares of Performance Stock granted, the initial value (if applicable), the Performance Period, the Performance Goals and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, including but not limited to special provisions relating to a change of control and any rights to Dividend Equivalents.  
     
  9  .3            Value of Performance Units/Performance Stock .  Each Performance Unit shall have an initial value that is established by the Committee at the time of grant.  The value of a share of Performance Stock shall be equal to the Fair Market Value of the Stock.  The Committee shall set Performance Goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the number and/or value of Performance Units/Performance Stock that will be paid out to the Participants.  
     
  9  .4            Earning of Performance Units/Performance Stock .  After the applicable Performance Period has ended, the Participant shall be entitled to receive a payout with respect to the Performance Units/Performance Stock earned by the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of the extent to which the corresponding Performance Goals have been achieved.  
     
  9  .5            Form and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Performance Stock .  Payment of earned Performance Units/Performance Stock shall be made following the close of the applicable Performance Period.  The Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units/Performance Stock in cash or in Stock (or in a combination thereof), which has an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the earned Performance Units/Performance Stock at the close of the applicable Performance Period.  Such Stock may be granted subject to any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.  
     
  9  .6            Termination .  Each Performance Unit/Performance Stock Award Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to receive a Performance Unit/Performance Stock payment following termination of the Participant s employment with the Company and its Subsidiaries during a Performance Period.  Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, shall be included in the Award Agreement entered into with Participants, need not be uniform among all grants of Performance Units/Performance Stock or among Participants and may reflect distinctions based on reasons for termination.  
     
  16    

To the extent the Performance Unit/Performance Stock Award Agreement does not set forth termination provisions, the provisions of Article 13 shall control.  
     
  9  .7            Transferability .  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participant s rights with respect to Performance Units/Performance Stock granted under the Plan shall be available during the Participant s lifetime only to such Participant or the Participant s legal representative and Performance Units/Performance Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  To the extent the Committee permits the transfer of Performance Units/Performance Stock, in no event shall Performance Units/Performance Stock be transferred for consideration.  
     
   Article 10.            Other Awards   
     
  The Committee shall have the right to grant other Awards which may include, without limitation, the payment of Stock in lieu of cash, the payment of cash based on attainment of Performance Goals established by the Committee and the payment of Stock in lieu of cash under other Company incentive or bonus programs Payment under or settlement of any such Awards shall be made in such manner and at such times as the Committee may determine.  
     
   Article 11.            Deferrals   
     
  The Committee may, in its sole discretion, permit a Participant to defer the Participant s receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Stock that would otherwise be due to such Participant under the Plan.  If any such deferral election is permitted, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals.  
     
   Article 12.            Rights of Participants   
     
  12  .1          Termination . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate any Participant s employment or other relationship with the Company or any Subsidiary at any time, for any reason or no reason in the Company s or the Subsidiary s sole discretion, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ of, or otherwise in any relationship with, the Company or any Subsidiary.  
     
  12  .2          Participation .  No Eligible Person shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under the Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.  
     
  12  .3          Limitation of Implied Rights .  Neither a Participant nor any other Person shall, by reason of the Plan, acquire any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company or any Subsidiary whatsoever, including, without limitation, any specific funds, assets or other property which the Company or any Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability under the Plan.  A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the Stock or amounts, if any, payable under the Plan, unsecured by any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary.  Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guarantee that the assets of such companies shall be sufficient to pay any benefits to any Person.  
     
  17    

Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no Award under the Plan shall confer upon the holder thereof any right as a stockholder of the Company prior to the date on which the individual fulfills all conditions for receipt of such rights.  
     
  12  .4          Waiver .  Each Participant, by acceptance of an Award, waives all rights to specific performance or injunctive or other equitable relief and acknowledges that he has an adequate remedy at law in the form of damages.  
     
   Article 13.            Termination of Employment   
     
  If a Participant has a Termination of Employment, then, unless otherwise provided by the Committee or in the Award Agreement, all Awards shall terminate and be forfeited on the date of such Termination of Employment.  
     
   Article 14.                Equity Incentive Plans of Foreign Subsidiaries   
     
  The Committee may authorize any foreign Subsidiary to adopt a plan for granting Awards ( Foreign Equity Incentive Plan ) and awards granted under such Foreign Equity Incentive Plans may be treated as grants under the Plan, if the Committee so determines.  Such Foreign Equity Incentive Plans shall have such terms and provisions as the Committee permits not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan and which may be more restrictive than those contained in the Plan.  Awards granted under such Foreign Equity Incentive Plans shall be governed by the terms of the Plan except to the extent that the provisions of the Foreign Equity Incentive Plans are more restrictive than the terms of the Plan, in which case such terms of the Foreign Equity Incentive Plans shall control.  
     
   Article 15.            Amendment, Modification and Termination   
     
  The Board may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, provided that no amendment shall be made which shall increase the total number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan, materially modify the requirements for participation in the Plan, or materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants under the Plan, in each case unless such amendment is approved by the stockholders of the Company.  
     
  No termination, amendment or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect in any material way any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant holding such Award, unless such termination, modification or amendment is required by applicable law and except as otherwise provided herein.  
     
  18    

Article 16.            Payment for Awards and Withholding   
     
  16  .1          Payment for Awards .  In the event a Participant elects to pay the Option Exercise Price or make payment for any other Award through tender of previously acquired Stock, (i) only a whole number of share(s) of Stock (and not fractional shares of Stock) may be tendered in payment, (ii) such Participant must present evidence acceptable to the Company that he has owned any such shares of Stock tendered in payment (and that such shares of Stock tendered have not been subject to any substantial risk of forfeiture) for at least six months prior to the date of exercise and (iii) Stock must be tendered to the Company, either by actual delivery of the shares or by attestation.  When payment is made by tender of Stock, the difference, if any, between the aggregate amount
 payable and the Fair Market Value of the share(s) of Stock tendered in payment (plus any applicable taxes) shall be paid by check.  No Participant may tender shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value exceeding the aggregate Option Exercise Price or other payment due.  
     
  16  .2          Notification under Section 83(b) .  The Committee may, on the grant date or any later date, prohibit a Participant from making the election described below.  If the Committee has not prohibited such Participant from making such election, and the Participant shall, in connection with the exercise of any Option, or the grant of any share of Restricted Stock, make the election permitted under Section 83(b) of the Code (i.e., an election to include in such Participant s gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Section 83(b) of the Code), such Participant shall notify the Company of such election within 10 days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service, in addition to any filing and notification required pursu
ant to regulations issued under the authority of Section 83(b) of the Code.  
     
  16  .3          Tax Withholding .  The Company shall have the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount (including any Stock withheld as provided below) sufficient to satisfy Federal, state and local taxes (including the Participant s FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to an Award made under the Plan.  
     
  16  .4          Stock Withholding .  With respect to tax withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or upon any other taxable event arising out of or as a result of Awards granted hereunder, Participants may elect to satisfy the withholding requirement, in whole or in part, by tendering Stock held by the Participant (by actual delivery of the shares or by attestation) or by having the Company withhold Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction.  All elections shall be irrevocable, made in writing (or other method acceptable to the Company) and signed by the Participant.  In the event a Participant fails to make an election by 
the date required, the Participant will be deemed to have made an election to have the Company withhold Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction.  
     
  19    

Article 17.            Repayment of Awards and Non-Solicitation   
     
  17.1          Restatements .    In the event of a restatement of the Company s financial results to correct a material error or inaccuracy resulting in whole or in part from the fraud or intentional misconduct of a Section 16 Officer, as determined by the Board or a committee thereof, the Board or the committee may, to the extent permitted by applicable law,  
     
  (i)            cancel or cause to be cancelled any or all of the Section 16 Officer s outstanding Awards granted after May 19, 2009;  
     
  (ii)           recover or cause to be recovered any or all  Proceeds  (as defined below) resulting from any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of shares of Stock issued or issuable upon vesting, settlement or exercise, as the case may be, of any Award granted after May 19, 2009, plus a reasonable rate of interest; and/or  
     
  (iii)          recover or cause to be recovered any cash paid or shares of Stock issued to the Participant in connection with any vesting, settlement or exercise of an Award granted after May 19, 2009, plus a reasonable rate of interest.  
     
  The term  Proceeds  means, with respect to any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award, an amount determined by the Committee, (a) in the case of an Award other than an Option, SAR or cash-settled Award, up to the amount equal to the Fair Market Value per share of Stock at the time of such sale or other disposition multiplied by the number of shares sold or disposed of, or (b) in the case of an Option or SAR, up to the amount equal to the number of shares of Stock sold or disposed of multiplied by the excess of the Fair Market Value per share of Stock at the time of such sale or disposition over the Option Exercise Price or Base Value, as applicable.  The return of Proceeds is in addition to and separate from any other relief available to the Company or any other actions as may be taken by the Committee in it
s sole discretion.  Any determination by the Committee with respect to the foregoing shall be final, conclusive and binding on all interested parties.  
     
  17.2          Non-Solicitation .  While employed and for the one-year period following termination of employment, any Participant who has received an Award under the Plan shall not, directly or indirectly:  
     
  (i)            other than in connection with the good-faith performance of his or her normal duties and responsibilities as an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, encourage any employee or agent of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate his or her relationship with the Company or any Subsidiary;  
     
  (ii)           employ, engage as a consultant or adviser, or solicit the employment or engagement as a consultant or adviser of, any employee or agent of the Company or Subsidiary (other than by the Company or its Subsidiaries), or cause or encourage any Person to do any of the foregoing;  
     
  20    

(iii)          establish (or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, or encourage others to establish (or take preliminary steps to establish) a business with, any employee or exclusive agent independent contractor of the Company or its Subsidiaries; or  
     
  (iv)          interfere with the relationship of the Company or its Subsidiaries with, or endeavor to entice away from the Company or its Subsidiaries, any Person who or which at any time since the Participant s hire date was or is a material customer or material supplier of, or maintained a material business relationship with, the Company or its Subsidiaries.  
     
  If a Participant violates any of the non-solicitation provisions set forth above, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Board or a committee thereof may, to the extent permitted by applicable law,  
     
  (i)            cancel or cause to be cancelled any or all of the Participant s outstanding Awards granted after May 19, 2009;  
     
  (ii)           recover or cause to be recovered any or all Proceeds resulting from any sale or other disposition (including to the Company) of shares of Stock issued or issuable upon vesting, settlement or exercise, as the case may be, of any Award granted after May 19, 2009 if the sale or disposition was effected on or after the date that is one year prior to the date on which the Participant first violated the non-solicitation provision(s); and/or  
     
  (iii)          recover or cause to be recovered any cash paid or shares of Stock issued to the Participant in connection with any vesting, settlement or exercise of an Award granted after May 19, 2009 if the vesting, settlement or exercise occurred on or after the date that is one year prior to the date on which the Participant first violated the non-solicitation provision(s).  
     
  17.3          No Limitation on Other Rights .  Nothing contained in this Article 17 shall be deemed to (i) limit any additional legal or equitable rights or remedies the Company may have under applicable law with respect to any Participant who may have caused or contributed to the Company s need to restate its financial results or who may have violated the non-solicitation provisions in the Plan or in any other plan, policy, agreement or arrangement or (ii) affect any other non-solicitation or other restrictive covenants to which a Participant is subject.  
     
   Article 18.            Successors   
     
  All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.  
     
  21    

Article 19.            Legal Construction   
     
  19.1          Gender and Number .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine, the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural.  
     
  19.2          Severability .  In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.  
     
  19.3          Requirements of Law .  The granting of Awards and the issuance of Stock under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required.  
     
  19.4          Governing Law .  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be construed in accordance with, and governed by, the laws of the State of Delaware, except with regard to conflicts of law provisions.  
     
  19.5          Code Section 409A Compliance .  To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan and any Awards granted hereunder comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and any related regulations or other guidance promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service ( Section 409A ) and the Plan and any Awards granted under the Plan shall be interpreted and construed in a manner consistent with such intent.  
     
  22    

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 4
 a2202090zex-10_6.htm
 EX-10.6

EXHIBIT 10.6   
     
   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   
   2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN   
   OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT   
     
  [Addressee]  
     
  In accordance with the terms of The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), pursuant to action of the Compensation and Succession Committee of the Board of Directors, The Allstate Corporation (the  Company ) hereby grants to you (the  Participant ), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Option Award Agreement (including Annex A hereto and all documents incorporated herein by reference) the right and option (the  Option ) to purchase from the Company the number of shares of its common stock, par value $.01 per share, set forth below:  

Type   of Option Granted:       

Nonqualified           

Number   of Shares to which Option Pertains:       

[                  ]           

Date   of Grant:       

[                  ]           

Option   Exercise Price:       

$                  ,   which is the Fair Market Value on the Date of Grant           

Vesting:       

[                                                                                              ]           

(subject   to Sections 2 and 4 of Annex A)           

Expiration   Date:       

Close   of business on   [                  ]           

Exercise   Period:       

Date   of Vesting through Expiration Date (subject to Section 2 of Annex A)              
     
  THIS OPTION IS SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE AS PROVIDED IN THIS OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT AND THE PLAN.  
     
  Further terms and conditions of the Award are set forth in Annex A hereto, which is an integral part of this Option Award Agreement.  
     
  All terms, provisions and conditions applicable to the Option Award Agreement set forth in the Plan and not set forth herein are hereby incorporated by reference.  To the extent any provision hereof is inconsistent with a provision of the Plan, the provision of the Plan will govern.  By accepting this Award as provided in the following sentence, the Participant hereby acknowledges the receipt of a copy of this Option Award Agreement including Annex A and a copy of the Prospectus and agrees to be bound by all the terms and provisions hereof and thereof.  This Award and all prior Option Awards not previously accepted will be deemed accepted if the participant does not decline this Award by accessing the Fidelity NetBenefits  website at www.NetBenefits.com and selecting the  Decline Grant  option for this Award within 30 days of the Date of Grant.   [Note:  The following language will be added to awards for Allstate Investment Management Limited employees:  Separate conditions apply to employees of Allstate Investment Management Limited.]   

Thomas   J. Wilson           

Chairman,   President and           

Chief Executive Officer           

THE   ALLSTATE CORPORATION              
     
  1    

ANNEX A   
     
   TO   
     
   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   
   2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN   
   OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT   
     
   Further Terms and Conditions of Award   .  It is understood and agreed that the Award of the Option evidenced by this Option Award Agreement to which this is annexed is subject to the following additional terms and conditions:  
     
  1  .              Exercise of Option .  To the extent vested and subject to Section 2 below, the Option may be exercised in whole or in part from time to time by delivery of written notice (or other method acceptable to the Company) of exercise and payment to  Stock Option Record Office, The Allstate Corporation, 2775 Sanders Road, Ste F5, Northbrook, Illinois  60062, unless the Company advises the Participant to send the notice and payment to a different address or a designated representative.  Such notice and payment must be received not later than the Expiration Date, specifying the number of shares of Stock to be purchased.  The minimum number of Shares to be purchased in a partial exercise shall be the lesser of 25 shares and the number of shares rema
ining unexercised under this Award.  
     
  The Option Exercise Price shall be payable:  (a) in cash or its equivalent, (b) by tendering previously acquired Stock (owned for at least six months) having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Exercise Price, (c) by broker-assisted cashless exercise, (d) by share withholding or (e) by a combination of (a), (b), (c) and/or (d).  
     
  With respect to tax withholding required upon exercise of the Option, the Participant may elect to satisfy such withholding requirements in whole or in part, by having Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to the minimum statutory total tax which could be imposed on the transaction withheld from the shares due upon Option exercise.  
     
  2.              Termination of Employment .  Except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 4 below, upon the Participant s Termination of Employment, the following provisions of this Section 2 shall apply.  
     
  (A)          If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of death or Disability, then the Option, to the extent not vested, shall vest, and the Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the Participant (or the Participant s personal representative, Beneficiary, estate or transferee, as the case may be) at any time on or before the earlier to occur of the Expiration Date of the Option and the second anniversary of the date of such Termination of Employment.  
     
  (B)           If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of Retirement at the Normal Retirement Date or Early Retirement Date, to the extent the Option is vested on the date of Termination of Employment, it may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the Participant at any time on or before the earlier to occur of the Expiration Date of the Option and the fifth anniversary of the date of such Termination of Employment.  
     
  1    

(C)           If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of Retirement at the Normal Retirement Date,  
     
  (i)            any Option granted more than twelve (12) months prior to the Normal Retirement Date to the extent it is not vested, and  
     
  (ii)           a prorated portion of any Option granted within twelve (12) months of the Normal Retirement Date to the extent it is not vested (such proration to be determined by multiplying the Number of Shares to which Option Pertains by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days the Participant was employed since the Date of Grant and the denominator of which is 365)  
     
  shall continue to vest in accordance with its terms, and when vested, may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the Participant at any time on or before the earlier to occur of the Expiration Date of the Option and the fifth anniversary of the date of such Termination of Employment.  The remaining portion of the Option that is not vested shall be forfeited.  
     
  (D)          If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of Retirement at the Early Retirement Date, a prorated portion of the Option (such proration to be determined by multiplying the Number of Shares to which Option Pertains by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days the Participant was employed since the Date of Grant and the denominator of which is the number of days during the entire vesting period, and then subtracting the number of shares already vested), shall continue to vest in accordance with its terms, and when vested, may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the Participant at any time on or before the earlier to occur of  the Expiration Date of the Option and the fifth anniversary of the date of such Termination of Employment.  The remaining portion of the Option that is not vested
 shall be forfeited.  
     
  (E)           If the Participant s Termination of Employment is for any other reason, any portion of the Option that is not vested shall be forfeited, and the Option, to the extent it is vested on the date of Termination of Employment, may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the Participant at any time on or before the earlier to occur of the Expiration Date of the Option and three months after the date of such Termination of Employment.  
     
  (F)           If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of Retirement at the Normal Retirement Date or Early Retirement Date and if the Participant dies after such Termination of Employment but before the date the Option must be exercised as set forth in subsections (C) and (D) above, any portion of the Option that is not vested shall vest and the Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the Participant s personal representative, Beneficiary, estate, or transferee, as the case may be at any time on or before the earlier to occur of the Expiration Date of the Option, the second anniversary of the date of death, and the fifth anniversary of the date of such Termination of Employment.   If the Participant s Termination of Employment is for any reason other than death, Disability, No
rmal Retirement, or Early Retirement and if the Participant dies after such Termination of Employment but before the date the Option must be exercised as set forth in subsection (E) above, the Option, to the extent it is vested on the date of the Participant s death, may be exercised, in whole or in part, by the Participant s personal representative, Beneficiary, estate or transferee, as the case may be, at any time on or before the earliest to occur of the Expiration Date of the Option and three months after the date of Termination of Employment.  
     
  2    

3.              Transferability of Options . Except as set forth in this Section 3, the Option shall be exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant, and may not be assigned or transferred other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  The Option, to the extent vested, may be transferred by the Participant during his lifetime to any  Family Member.   A transfer of the Option pursuant to this Section 3 may only be effected by the Company at the written request of a Participant and shall be effective only when recorded in the Company s record of outstanding Options. Such transferred Option may not be subsequently transferred by the transferee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  A transferred Option shall continue to be governed b
y and subject to the terms and limitations of the Plan and this Option Award Agreement, and the transferee shall be entitled to the same rights as the Participant, as if no transfer had taken place.  In no event shall an Option be transferred for consideration.  
     
  4.              Change of Control .  Except as otherwise specifically provided in a written agreement with the Company to which the Participant is a party, the Option, to the extent not vested, shall vest on the date of a Change of Control, as defined in Section 8, and the Option may be exercised in whole or in part, subject to the time periods for exercise set forth in Section 2 of this Annex A.  
     
  5.              Ratification of Actions .  By accepting the Award or other benefit under the Plan, the Participant and each person claiming under or through him shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated the Participant s acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, any action taken under the Plan or the Award by the Company, the Board or the Compensation and Succession Committee.  
     
  6.              Notices .  Any notice hereunder to the Company shall be addressed to its Stock Option Record Office and any notice hereunder to the Participant shall be addressed to him at the address specified on this Option Award Agreement, subject to the right of either party to designate at any time hereafter in writing some other address.  
     
  7.              Governing Law and Severability .  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, this Option Award Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflicts of law provisions.  In the event any provision of the Option Award Agreement shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this Option Award Agreement, and this Option Award Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.  
     
  8.              Definitions .  In addition to the following definitions, capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Plan.  
     
    Board Turnover     see clause (c) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Change of Control   means, except as otherwise provided at the end of this definition, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:  
     
  (a)           ( Voting Power)   any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person or Persons, ownership of stock of the Company possessing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Securities of the Company (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly Owned Company (as defined below), a   More than 30% Owner  ), except that no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a corporation with respect to which both more than 70% of the common stock of such corporation and Voting   
     
  3    

Securities representing more than 70% of the combined voting power of the Voting Securities of such corporation are then owned, directly or indirectly, by the Persons who were the direct or indirect owners of the common stock and Voting Securities of the Company immediately before such acquisition in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately before such acquisition, of the common stock and Voting Securities of the Company, as the case may be (a   Similarly Owned Company   or  
     
  (b) ( Majority Ownership)  any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires ownership of more than 50% of the voting power of all Voting Securities of the Company or of the total fair market value of the stock of the Company (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly Owned Company, a   Majority Owner  ), except that no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a Similarly Owned Company; or  
     
  (c)  ( Board Composition)  a majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board before the date of the appointment or election (  Board Turnover   or  
     
  (d)   (Reorganization)  the consummation of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, or similar transaction, or of a plan or agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company, or a plan of liquidation of the Company (any of the foregoing, a   Reorganization Transaction  ) that, does not qualify as an Exempt Reorganization Transaction.  
     
  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary:  (i) no transaction or event shall constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement unless the transaction or event constituting the Change of Control also constitutes a change in the ownership of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)), a change in effective control of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)) or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A- 3(i)(5)(vii)); and (ii) no sale or disposition of one or more Subsidiaries ( Sale Subsidiary ) or the assets thereof shall constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement if the investments in and advances by the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than the Sale Subsidiari
es) to such Sale Subsidiary as of immediately prior to the sale or disposition determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) (but after intercompany eliminations and net of the effect of intercompany reinsurance) are less than 51% of the Consolidated Total Shareholders  Equity of the Company as of immediately prior to the sale or disposition.  Consolidated Total Shareholders  Equity means, at any date, the total shareholders  equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries at such date, as reported in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.  
     
    Exempt Reorganization Transaction   means a Reorganization Transaction that fails to result in (a) any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)) becoming a More than 30% Owner or a Majority Owner, (b) Board Turnover, or (c) a sale or disposition to any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)) of the assets of the Company that have a total Gross Fair Market Value equal to at least forty percent (40%) of the total Gross Fair Market Value of all of the assets of the Company immediately before such transaction.  
     
  4    

Gross Fair Market Value   means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.  
     
    Majority Owner     see clause (b) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    More than 30% Owner     see clause (a) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Reorganization Transaction     see clause (d) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Similarly Owned Company       see clause (a) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Voting Securities   of a corporation means securities of such corporation that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such corporation.  
     
  5    

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.12>
 5
 a2202090zex-10_12.htm
 EX-10.12

EXHIBIT 10.12   
     
   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   
   2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN   
   RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT   
     
  [Date]  
     
  [Name]  
  [Address]  
  [City]  
     
  In accordance with the terms of The Allstate Corporation 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), pursuant to action of the Compensation and Succession Committee of the Board of Directors, The Allstate Corporation (the  Company ) hereby grants to you (the  Participant ), subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (including Annex A hereto and all documents incorporated herein by reference), Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ), as set forth below.  Each RSU corresponds to one share of Stock. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver one share of Stock on the Conversion Date or as otherwise provided herein.  Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor of the Company and not as a stockholder with respect to the shares of Stock underlying your RSUs.  

Number   of RSUs Granted:       

Date   of Grant:       

Period   of Restriction:       

Date   of Grant through the earlier of (i) the date of the Participant s death,   and (ii) [date].           

Conversion   Date:       

Each   RSU will convert to one share of Stock on the day following the date the   restrictions lapse with respect to that RSU.           

Dividend   Equivalent Right:       

Each   RSU shall include a right to Dividend Equivalents.              
     
  RSUs ARE SUBJECT TO FORFEITURE AS PROVIDED IN THIS RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT AND THE PLAN.  
     
  Further terms and conditions of the Award are set forth in Annex A hereto, which is an integral part of this RSU Award Agreement.  
     
  1    

EXHIBIT 10.12   
     
  All terms, provisions, and conditions applicable to the Restricted Stock Unit Award set forth in the Plan and not set forth herein are hereby incorporated by reference herein.  To the extent any provision hereof is inconsistent with a provision of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan will govern.  By accepting this Award as provided in the following sentence, the Participant hereby acknowledges the receipt of a copy of this RSU Award Agreement including Annex A and a copy of the Prospectus and agrees to be bound by all the terms and provisions hereof and thereof.  This Award and all prior RSU Awards not previously accepted will be deemed accepted if the participant does not decline this Award by accessing the Fidelity NetBenefits  website at www.NetBenefits.com and selecting the  Decline Grant  option for this Award within 30 days of the Date of Grant.   [No
te:  The following language will be added to awards for Allstate Investment Management Limited employees:  Separate conditions apply to employees of Allstate Investment Management Limited.]   

Thomas   J. Wilson           

Chairman,   President and           

Chief Executive Officer           

THE   ALLSTATE CORPORATION           

Attachment:       
 
  Annex   A       

2    

ANNEX A   
     
   TO   
     
   THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION   
   2009 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN   
   RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT   
     
   Further Terms and Conditions of Award   .  It is understood and agreed that the Award of RSUs evidenced by the RSU Award Agreement to which this is annexed is subject to the following additional terms and conditions:  
     
  1  .              Tax Withholding .  With respect to the minimum statutory tax withholding required upon the lapse of restrictions on the RSUs, the Participant may elect to satisfy such withholding requirements by tender of previously-owned shares of Stock or by having the Company withhold shares of Stock upon the Conversion Date.  
     
  2.              Termination of Employment .  Except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 3 below, upon the Participant s Termination of Employment, all unvested RSUs shall be treated as follows:  
     
  (A)          If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of death or Disability, then all unvested RSUs shall immediately become nonforfeitable and the restrictions with respect to the RSUs shall lapse as of the date of such Termination of Employment.  
     
  (B)           If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of Retirement at the Normal Retirement Date,  
     
  (i)            any unvested RSUs granted more than twelve (12) months prior to the Normal Retirement Date, and  
     
  (ii)           a prorated portion of any unvested RSUs granted within twelve (12) months of the Normal Retirement Date (such proration to be determined by multiplying the Number of RSUs Granted by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days the Participant was employed since the Date of Grant and the denominator of which is 365)  
     
  will remain subject to the restriction period set forth on the first page of this RSU Award Agreement.  The remaining portion of the RSUs that do not remain subject to the restriction period shall be forfeited.  
     
  (C)           If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of Retirement at the Early Retirement Date, a prorated portion of the RSUs (such proration to be determined by multiplying the Number of RSUs Granted by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days the Participant was employed since the Date of Grant and the denominator of which is the number of days during the entire Period of Restriction, and then subtracting the number of RSUs already converted), will remain subject to the restriction period set forth on the first page of this RSU Award Agreement.  The remaining portion of the RSUs that do not remain subject to the restriction period shall be forfeited.  
     
  (D)          If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of any other reason, then all unvested RSUs shall be forfeited as of the end of the day of such Termination of   
     
  1    

Employment.  
     
  (E)           If the Participant s Termination of Employment is on account of Retirement at the Normal Retirement Date or Early Retirement Date and if the Participant dies after such Termination of Employment but before the end of the restriction period, then all unvested RSUs that remain subject to the restriction period shall immediately become nonforfeitable and the restrictions with respect to the RSUs shall lapse as of the date of death.  
     
  3.              Change of Control .  Except as otherwise specifically provided in a written agreement with the Company to which the Participant is a party, the unvested RSUs shall become nonforfeitable and the restrictions to which the RSUs are then subject shall immediately lapse on the date of a Change of Control, as defined in Section 9.  
     
  4.                Conversion Date .  Unless otherwise determined by the Board, a Participant shall be entitled to delivery of shares of Stock that underlie the RSUs then outstanding on the day following the date the restrictions lapse with respect to such RSU.  
     
  5.              Dividend Equivalent Right .  Each RSU entitles a Participant to receive a cash amount (less applicable withholding) equal to the sum of all regular dividend payments as would have been made in respect of each share of Stock underlying such RSUs if the Participant were the holder of such shares during the Period of Restriction.  The dividend equivalent payments will accrue during the Period of Restriction for the underlying RSUs and will be paid within 30 days of the Conversion Date of such RSUs.  
     
  Dividend equivalent payments shall be made only with respect to such RSUs that were outstanding on the applicable dividend record date.  
     
  6.              Ratification of Actions .  By accepting the RSU Award or other benefit under the Plan, the Participant and each person claiming under or through him shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated the Participant s acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, any action taken under the Plan or the RSU Award by the Company, the Board, or the Compensation and Succession Committee.  
     
  7.            Notices .  Any notice hereunder to the Company shall be addressed to its Stock Option Record Office and any notice hereunder to the Participant shall be addressed to him or her at the address specified on this RSU Award Agreement, subject to the right of either party to designate at any time hereafter in writing some other address.  
     
  8.              Governing Law and Severability .  To the extent not preempted by Federal law, the RSU Award Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflicts of law provisions.  In the event any provision of this RSU Award Agreement shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of this RSU Award Agreement, and this RSU Award Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.  
     
  9.              Definitions .  In addition to the following definitions, capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Plan.  
     
    Board Turnover     see clause (c) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Change of Control   means, except as otherwise provided at the end of this definition, the occurrence of any one or more of the following:  
     
  2    

(a)  ( Voting Power)   any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such Person or Persons, ownership of stock of the Company possessing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Securities of the Company (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly Owned Company (as defined below), a   More than 30% Owner  ), except that no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a corporation with respect to which both more than 70% of the common stock of such corporation and Voting Securities representing more than 70% of the combin
ed voting power of the Voting Securities of such corporation are then owned, directly or indirectly, by the Persons who were the direct or indirect owners of the common stock and Voting Securities of the Company immediately before such acquisition in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately before such acquisition, of the common stock and Voting Securities of the Company, as the case may be (a   Similarly Owned Company   or  
     
  (b) ( Majority Ownership)  any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)), other than a Subsidiary or any employee benefit plan (or any related trust) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, acquires ownership of more than 50% of the voting power of all Voting Securities of the Company or of the total fair market value of the stock of the Company (such a Person or group that is not a Similarly Owned Company, a   Majority Owner  ), except that no Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of such ownership by a Similarly Owned Company; or  
     
  (c)  ( Board Composition)  a majority of the members of the Board is replaced during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board before the date of the appointment or election (  Board Turnover   or  
     
  (d)  ( Reorganization)  the consummation of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, or similar transaction, or of a plan or agreement for the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company, or a plan of liquidation of the Company (any of the foregoing, a   Reorganization Transaction  ) that, does not qualify as an Exempt Reorganization Transaction.  
     
  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary:  (i) no transaction or event shall constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement unless the transaction or event constituting the Change of Control also constitutes a change in the ownership of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)), a change in effective control of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vi)) or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(vii)); and (ii) no sale or disposition of one or more Subsidiaries ( Sale Subsidiary ) or the assets thereof shall constitute a Change of Control for purposes of this Agreement if the investments in and advances by the Company and its Subsidiaries (other than the Sale Subsidiar
ies) to such Sale Subsidiary as of immediately prior to the sale or disposition determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) (but after intercompany eliminations and net of the effect of intercompany reinsurance) are less than 51% of the Consolidated Total Shareholders  Equity of the Company as of immediately prior to the sale or disposition.  Consolidated Total Shareholders  Equity means, at any date, the total shareholders  equity of the Company and its Subsidiaries at such date, as reported in the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.  
     
    Exempt Reorganization Transaction     means a Reorganization Transaction that fails to result in (a) any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)) becoming a More than 30% Owner or a Majority Owner, (b) Board Turnover, or (c) a   
     
  3    

sale or disposition to any Person or group (as such term is defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(5)(v)(B)) of the assets of the Company that have a total Gross Fair Market Value (as defined below) equal to at least forty percent (40%) of the total Gross Fair Market Value of all of the assets of the Company immediately before such transaction.  
     
    Gross Fair Market Value   means the value of the assets of the Company, or the value of the assets being disposed of, determined without regard to any liabilities associated with such assets.  
     
    Majority Owner     see clause (b) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    More than 30% Owner     see clause (a) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Reorganization Transaction     see clause (d) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Similarly Owned Company     see clause (a) of the definition of  Change of Control.   
     
    Voting Securities   of a corporation means securities of such corporation that are entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such corporation.  
     
  4    

</EX-10.12>

<EX-12>
 6
 a2202090zex-12.htm
 EX-12

Exhibit 12     

    THE ALLSTATE CORPORATION     

    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES RATIO     

(A)    The
Company has authority to issue up to 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share; however, there are currently no shares outstanding
and the Company does not have a preferred stock dividend obligation. Therefore, the Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends is equal to the Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
and is not disclosed separately.      (B)    In
this presentation, interest credited to contractholder funds is excluded to promote transparency and allows users of this exhibit to quantify the impact
of interest credited to contractholder funds on the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.      (C)    Earnings
for the year ended December 31, 2008 were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $3.03 billion.    

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 7
 a2202090zex-21.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21  
     
   Subsidiaries   

Company Name        

Domicile            

ALFS, Inc.       

Delaware           

ALIC   Reinsurance Company       

South   Carolina           

ALIC   Reinsurance Company II       

Vermont           

Allstate   Assignment Company       

Nebraska           

Allstate   Assurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Bank       

Federal   Jurisdiction           

Allstate   County Mutual Insurance Company       

Texas           

Allstate   Distributors, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   Enterprises, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   Equity Management, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   Finance Company, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   Financial Advisors, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   Financial Corporation       

Illinois           

Allstate   Financial Services, LLC*       

Delaware           

Allstate   Financial, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   Fire and Casualty Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Indemnity Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Insurance Company of Canada        

Canada              

Allstate   Insurance Holdings, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   International Insurance Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

Allstate   Investment Management Company        

Delaware              

Allstate   Investment Management Limited       

United   Kingdom           

Allstate   Investments, LLC       

Delaware           

Allstate   Life Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Life Insurance Company of Canada       

Canada           

Allstate   Life Insurance Company of New York       

New   York           

Allstate   Motor Club, Inc.       

Delaware           

Allstate   New Jersey Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   New Jersey Property and Casualty Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Non-Insurance Holdings, Inc.       

Delaware           

Allstate   North American Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Northern Ireland Limited       

Northern   Ireland           

Allstate   Property and Casualty Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Allstate   Settlement Corporation       

Nebraska           

Allstate   Texas Lloyd s       

Texas           

Allstate   Texas Lloyd s, Inc.       

Texas           

American   Heritage Life Insurance Company       

Florida           

American   Heritage Life Investment Corporation       

Delaware           

American   Heritage Service Company       

Florida           

Castle   Key Indemnity Company       

Illinois           

Castle   Key Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Charter   National Life Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Credit   Card Sentinel, Inc.       

California           

Deerbrook   General Agency, Inc.       

Texas              

*  Doing business as LSA Securities in Pennsylvania  
     
  1    

Deerbrook   Insurance Company       

Illinois           

E.R.J.   Insurance Group, Inc.        

Florida           

Encompass   Floridian Indemnity Company       

Illinois           

Encompass   Floridian Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Encompass   Home and Auto Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Encompass   Indemnity Company       

Illinois           

Encompass   Independent Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Encompass   Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Encompass   Insurance Company of America       

Illinois           

Encompass   Insurance Company of Massachusetts       

Massachusetts           

Encompass   Insurance Company of New Jersey       

Illinois           

Encompass   Property and Casualty Company       

Illinois           

Encompass   Property and Casualty Insurance Company of New Jersey       

Illinois           

First   Colonial Insurance Company       

Florida           

Intramerica   Life Insurance Company       

New   York           

Ivantage   Select Agency, Inc.       

Illinois           

Kennett   Capital Holdings, LLC        

Delaware              

Kennett   Capital, Inc.        

Delaware              

Kennett   Capital Partners, LLC       

Delaware           

Lincoln   Benefit Life Company       

Nebraska           

Northbrook   Indemnity Company       

Illinois           

North   Light Specialty Insurance Company       

Illinois           

Northbrook   Services, Inc.       

Delaware           

Ocoma   Industries, Inc.       

Delaware           

Pablo   Creek Services, Inc.       

Illinois           

Pafco   Insurance Company       

Canada           

Pembridge   Insurance Company       

Canada           

Road   Bay Investments, LLC       

Delaware           

Signature   Agency, Inc.       

Delaware           

Signature   Motor Club, Inc.       

Delaware           

Signature   Motor Club of California, Inc.       

California           

Signature s   Nationwide Auto Club, Inc.       

Delaware           

Signature   Nationwide Auto Club of California, Inc.       

California           

Sterling   Collision Centers, Inc.       

Delaware           

Surety   Life Insurance Company       

Nebraska           

Tech-Cor,   LLC       

Delaware              

Doing business as American Heritage Insurance Services, ERJ Enterprises and ERJ Financial Services in Florida  
     
  2    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 a2202090zex-23.htm
 EX-23

Exhibit 23     

    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     

         We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of our reports dated February 24, 2011,
relating to the financial statements and financial statement schedules of The Allstate Corporation and the effectiveness of The Allstate Corporation's internal control over financial reporting (which
report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change in The Allstate Corporation's recognition and presentation for
other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities in 2009), appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation for the year ended
December 31, 2010, and to the reference to us under the heading "Experts" in Prospectus, which is part of the registration statements.   

/s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP   

  Chicago,
Illinois 
February 24, 2011   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.(I)>
 9
 a2202090zex-31_i.htm
 EX-31.(I)

EXHIBIT 31 (i)     

    CERTIFICATIONS     

  I,
Thomas J. Wilson, certify that:   

  1.
I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;   

  2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

  3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

  b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as
of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

  d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

5.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

  a)
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability
to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

  b)
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

February 24,
2011   

/s/ Thomas J. Wilson  
Thomas J. Wilson 
Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer  

EXHIBIT 31 (i)     

    CERTIFICATIONS     

  I,
Don Civgin, certify that:   

  1.
I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of The Allstate Corporation;   

  2.
Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   

3.
Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;   

  4.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the registrant and have:   

  a)
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;   

  b)
Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;   

  c)
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as
of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and   

  d)
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal
quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and   

  5.
The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

  a)
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability
to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and   

  b)
Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.   

  February 24,
2011   

/s/ Don Civgin  
Don Civgin 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.(I)>

<EX-32>
 10
 a2202090zex-32.htm
 EX-32

EXHIBIT 32     

     SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS      

         Each of the undersigned hereby certifies that to his knowledge the report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2010 of The Allstate Corporation filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and that the information contained in such report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of The Allstate Corporation.   

February 24, 2011  
     
   /s/ Thomas J. Wilson  
Thomas J. Wilson 
Chairman of the Board, 
President and 
Chief Executive Officer  

/s/ Don Civgin  
Don Civgin 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 all-20101231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 all-20101231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 all-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 all-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 all-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 all-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

