<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20140227_10-K_edgar_data_732712_0001193125-14-073266_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>18913215</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>557647</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5087026</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3589311</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6157226</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3020611</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>145</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-14-073266.hdr.sgml : 20140227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20140227164750
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-14-073266
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		33
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20131231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20140227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20140227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000732712
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (NO RADIO TELEPHONE) [4813]
		IRS NUMBER:				232259884
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08606
		FILM NUMBER:		14649747

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		140 WEST STREET
		STREET 2:		29TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10007
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-395-1000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		140 WEST STREET
		STREET 2:		29TH FLOOR
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10007

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BELL ATLANTIC CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-14-073266.txt : 20140227

10-K
 1
 d622994d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES        SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       Washington, D.C. 20549       FORM  10-K         
    Commission file number: 1-8606       Verizon Communications Inc.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware   
      
   23-2259884    
 
  (State or other jurisdiction  of incorporation or organization)  
      
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   

140 West Street       New York, New York    
      
   10007    
 
  (Address of principal executive offices)  
      
  (Zip Code)   
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (212) 395-1000    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of each
class             
     
     Name of each exchange   
                    
   on which registered                         

Common Stock, $.10 par value  
     
    New York Stock Exchange       The NASDAQ Global Select Market      London Stock Exchange    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    
  None      Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes           No            
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
       No             
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes           No            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data
File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes           No            
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,
 accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated filer

Accelerated filer         
     
  Non-accelerated filer         
     
  Smaller reporting company          
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes
       No             
  At June 28, 2013, the aggregate market value of the registrant s voting stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $144,030,746,074.
     At February 24, 2014, 4,141,140,749 shares of the registrant s common stock were outstanding, after deducting 101,233,491 shares
held in treasury.       Documents Incorporated By Reference:       Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareowners for the year ended December 31, 2013 (Parts I and II).       

Table of Contents  

      TABLE OF CONTENTS    

Item No.   

Page   

PART I   

Item 1.   
        
    Business    

2  

Item 1A.   
        
    Risk Factors    

15  

Item 1B.   
        
    Unresolved Staff Comments    

18  

Item 2.   
        
    Properties    

18  

Item 3.   
        
    Legal Proceedings    

19  

Item 4.   
        
    Mine Safety Disclosures    

19  

PART II   

Item 5.   
        
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    

20  

Item 6.   
        
    Selected Financial Data    

20  

Item 7.   
        
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

20  

Item 7A.   
        
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

20  

Item 8.   
        
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

20  

Item 9.   
        
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

20  

Item 9A.   
        
    Controls and Procedures    

21  

Item 9B.   
        
    Other Information    

21  

PART III   

Item 10.   
        
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

21  

Item 11.   
        
    Executive Compensation    

23  

Item 12.   
        
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

23  

Item 13.   
        
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

24  

Item 14.   
        
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

24  

PART IV   

Item 15.   
        
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    

24  

Signatures     

29  

Certifications   

Table of Contents  

PART
I     
 
           Item 1.    Business       

General    
    Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon, or the Company) is a holding company that, acting through its
subsidiaries, is one of the world s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies with a presence in over 150 countries around the world. Formerly
known as Bell Atlantic Corporation, we were incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware. We began doing business as Verizon on June 30, 2000 following our merger with GTE Corporation. We have a highly diverse workforce of
approximately 176,800 employees.      Our principal executive offices are located at 140 West Street, New York, New York 10007
(telephone number 212-395-1000).      We have two reportable segments, Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as
strategic business segments and organize by products and services.       

Wireless   
     
    Wireless  communications products
and services include wireless voice and data services and equipment sales, which are provided to consumer, business and government customers across the United States.    
 
   Wireline   
     
    Wireline s voice, data and video communications products and
enhanced services include broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services, security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers
in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world.    
    The following portions of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners are incorporated into this
report:       

Segment Results of Operations  on pages 17 through 22 and in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 65 through 67.

Wireless    
     Background       Our Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless. Cellco Partnership is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the combination of the U.S. wireless
operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone). As of December 31, 2013, Verizon owned a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owned the remaining 45%. Verizon Wireless provides wireless communication
services across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the United States and has the largest fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution (LTE) technology and third-generation (3G) Evolution - Data Optimized (EV-DO) networks of any
U.S. wireless service provider.      On September 2, 2013, Verizon entered into a stock purchase agreement with Vodafone and
Vodafone 4 Limited, pursuant to which Verizon agreed to acquire Vodafone s indirect 45% interest in Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless for aggregate consideration of approximately $130 billion (the Wireless Transaction). We completed the
transaction on February 21, 2014 and acquired 100% ownership of Verizon Wireless. The consideration paid was primarily comprised of cash and Verizon common stock.      Verizon Wireless is the largest wireless service provider in the United States as measured by retail connections and revenue. At December 31, 2013, Verizon Wireless had 102.8 million retail
connections and 2013 revenues of approximately $81.0 billion, representing approximately 67% of Verizon s aggregate revenues.      We have substantially completed the deployment of our 4G LTE network. Our 4G LTE network is available to 97% of the U.S. population in more than 500 markets covering approximately 305 million people,
including those in areas served by our LTE in Rural America partners. Under this program, we are working with wireless carriers in rural areas to collaboratively build and operate a 4G LTE network using each carrier s network assets and our
core 4G LTE equipment and 700 MHz C-Block spectrum. Our 4G LTE network provides higher data throughput performance for data services at a lower cost compared to that provided via 3G networks.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

    Wireless Service and Product Offerings    
  Our wireless services are available to our customers receiving service under the Verizon Wireless brand. In addition, customers can obtain
wireless products and services that operate on our network from resellers that purchase network access from us on a wholesale basis.   
    Wireless Services        We offer our wireless services on a postpaid and prepaid basis. Retail (non-wholesale) postpaid accounts represent retail customers under contract with Verizon Wireless that are directly served and
managed by Verizon Wireless and use its branded services. Our postpaid account plans include More Everything     
plans, single connection plans, plans tailored to the needs of our corporate customers, as well as legacy single connection plans and family plans that we no longer offer to new accounts. A single account may receive monthly wireless services for a
variety of connected devices. Postpaid connections represent individual lines of service for which a customer is billed in advance a monthly access charge in return for a monthly network service allowance (access service revenues), and usage beyond
the allowance is billed in arrears (usage service revenues). Approximately 94% of our retail connections received our wireless services on a postpaid basis as of December 31, 2013. Our prepaid service enables individuals to obtain wireless
services without a long-term contract or credit verification by paying for all services in advance.      Our
wireless plans offer various packages of services that allow customers, regardless of the device, to select the plan that best matches their network usage patterns. On February 13, 2014, we introduced our More Everything plans which replaced our
Share Everything      plans and provide more value to our customers. These plans, which are available to both new
and existing postpaid customers, feature domestic unlimited voice minutes, unlimited domestic and international text, video and picture messaging, cloud storage and a single data allowance that can be shared among up to 10 devices connected to the
Verizon Wireless network. Customers with Verizon Edge, which provides a device payment plan option, also will receive discounted monthly access fees on More Everything plans. For an additional monthly access fee, our customers have the option of
sharing long distance and roaming minutes among their devices for calls from the United States to, and calls while within, Canada and Mexico. The More Everything plans also include the Mobile Hotspot service on our smartphones at no additional
charge. The Mobile Hotspot service allows a customer to use our network to create a Wi-Fi network that can be used by Wi-Fi enabled devices. Verizon Wireless also offers shared data plans for business, with the More Everything plans for Small
Business and the Nationwide Business Data Packages and Plans. As of December 31, 2013, Share Everything accounts represented approximately 46% of our retail postpaid accounts, compared to approximately 23% as of December 31, 2012.
     We offer a wide variety of wireless services, including Internet access, via our broad range of devices.
Our customers can access the Internet on all of our smartphones, as well as our basic phones that include HTML web-browsing capability. We also offer service that enables our customers to access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on
notebook computers and tablets that either have embedded 4G LTE or 3G EV-DO modules, or that are used in conjunction with separate devices that enable access to this service, such as smartphones and USB modems as well as Jetpacks   TM    and other dedicated devices that provide a mobile Wi-Fi connection.
These devices can be added to the customer s More Everything plan for an additional monthly fee, or the customer can obtain a separate plan for the device at various price points, depending upon both the size of the data allowance purchased and
the device covered by the plan.      In addition, we offer messaging services, which enable our customers to send and receive
text, picture and video messages. Our customers can access multimedia offerings, mostly provided by third parties, consisting of applications providing music, video, gaming, news and other content, while our business-focused offerings, which are
designed to increase productivity, include solutions that enable customers to access the Internet and their corporate intranets, as well as products that enable wireless e-mail across our diverse portfolio of wireless devices. Our location-based
services provide our customers with directions to their destination and enable our business customers to locate, monitor and communicate with their mobile field workers. Our global data services allow our customers to access data services on our
Global Ready Phones from hundreds of international destinations and to access the Internet at such destinations with laptops that are either Global Ready, tethered to a Global Ready Phone, or are used in conjunction with other Global Ready devices,
such as certain USB modems or Jetpacks. In addition, our customers have access to more than one million applications and services developed and distributed by third parties, such as those offered via Google Play, accessible on our smartphones
running on the Google, Inc. (Google) Android operating system, those offered via the Apple, Inc. (Apple) iTunes store, accessible through smartphones and tablets running on the Apple iOS operating system, those offered by Microsoft Inc. (Microsoft),
via Microsoft s Windows Phone OS operating system and those offered by BlackBerry Limited (BlackBerry), through its BlackBerry App World webstore.      Our customers can make and receive calls on their home phone handsets using our wireless network through our Home Phone Connect service or Verizon 4G LTE Broadband Router with Voice service. We also offer
HomeFusion      Broadband, a high-speed Internet service that provides customers with Internet connections in their
homes using our 4G LTE network.      In addition, we provide network access and, in some cases, enhanced value added services to
support telemetry-type applications, which are characterized by machine-to-machine (M2M) wireless connections. Our M2M services support devices that are used by a variety of vertical market segments, including healthcare, education, manufacturing,
utilities, distribution and consumer products. For example, companies purchase network access and, in some cases, enhanced services from us in order to connect with and monitor equipment, such as medical devices used to monitor patients, fleet
management devices used to monitor company-operated vehicles and utility monitoring devices used for smart grid applications. Other companies purchase network access and, in some cases, enhanced services from us to support devices that are included
in a service they, in turn, sell to end users. We also support telematics services for some of the largest automotive manufacturers. We expect that consumer use of M2M wireless connections, such as home monitoring, health monitoring, energy
management and utilities management will increase as consumers integrate these devices into their mobile lifestyle.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

     Wireless Devices        We offer several categories of wireless devices, including smartphones, tablets and other Internet access devices as well as basic phones.   
   Smartphones . Our device line-up includes an array of smartphones that are enabled to utilize our 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO high-speed
data services and run on various operating platforms, such as Apple iOS, Google Android, BlackBerry OS, and Windows Phone OS. In August 2013, we launched the new Verizon Edge device payment plan option which now allows customers to trade in their
phone for a new phone after a minimum of thirty days, subject to certain conditions.         Tablets and Other Internet
Devices.  We offer a variety of 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO-enabled tablets from multiple manufacturers that run primarily on either the Apple iOS, Google Android or Microsoft Windows operating system. In 2013, we launched the Ellipsis 7 tablet, which
is available exclusively from Verizon Wireless. The tablets we offer also permit our customers to access the Internet via a Wi-Fi connection. In addition, we offer dedicated devices that provide a mobile Wi-Fi 4G LTE and/or 3G EV-DO connection,
which we refer to as Jetpacks, capable of connecting multiple Wi-Fi enabled devices to the Internet at one time. Our customers can also access the Internet wirelessly at broadband speeds on their computers via data cards, USB modems or through the
use of certain laptop computers and netbooks with embedded 4G LTE and 3G EV-DO Mobile Broadband modules offered by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). During 2013, we continued to experience strong subscriber demand for tablets and other
Internet devices, and the percentage of our retail postpaid connection base represented by connections to these devices continued to increase.   
   Basic Phones . Most of the basic phones we offer are 3G EV-DO-enabled and have HTML-browsing capability.   
  We purchase wireless devices and accessories from a number of manufacturers, with the substantial majority of our purchases made from
Apple, Motorola Mobility, Samsung, LG Electronics, BlackBerry, HTC, Hitachi and Quality One Wireless (through which we purchase Pantech devices and accessories).      A key component of all wireless devices is the chipset, which contains the  intelligence  of the device. The LTE chipsets used in our 4G LTE-enabled devices are manufactured by various
companies, each using its own 4G LTE chipset technology. For the manufacture and supply of our CDMA-1XRTT and EV-DO chipsets, most of our wireless device suppliers rely on Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm). We also sell phones that include CDMA-1XRTT
and EV-DO chipsets manufactured by VIA Telecom under license from Qualcomm. In addition, there are a number of other components common to wireless phones provided by various electronic component manufacturers that we do not deal with directly.
      Strategic Initiatives       We have undertaken several initiatives to develop innovative devices, data services and applications available to run on our networks, including the following:   

Mobile Video.  Video content is projected to account for a majority of mobile network traffic by 2018. We believe the growth in video
consumption using mobile devices provides us with an opportunity for revenue growth. We have made investments in converging technologies and services involving content delivery networks, video streaming and related consumer hardware to leverage
new content models. Our 4G LTE network enables us to move towards a unified video strategy that positions us to take advantage of this growth opportunity. For example, we are using Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service technology to develop
our LTE Multicast service. This service has the potential to enhance our network efficiency and provide our customers with access to live streaming video content with virtually no buffering, regardless of the number of devices using the
service.          

Mobile Commerce.  Every day, large volumes of transactions are carried across our network. As a result, we believe we are well positioned to
influence and benefit from the rapid growth of the mobile commerce market that is being driven by technology advances such as the proliferations of smartphones and tablets. Isis, a mobile commerce platform, represents the first phase of our
initiatives to address this opportunity. Launched in November 2013 as a joint venture with AT T Inc. (AT T) and T-Mobile USA, Inc. (T-Mobile USA), Isis enables customers to pay for point-of-sale purchases via their mobile phones using near
field communications technology rather than paying with cash or a credit card. Known as the  ISIS Mobile Wallet,  this service enables customers to organize all of their payment cards, offers and loyalty cards in one convenient application
on their Isis-ready phone.          

Innovation centers.  We operate innovation centers in Waltham, Massachusetts and San Francisco. We believe our centers serve as catalysts
for the development of non-traditional devices, services and applications that take full advantage of our 4G LTE network. The centers work with many of our strategic partners representing various industries to help them quickly bring products,
services, applications and solutions to market.           Network     
  We have the largest 4G LTE and 3G EV-DO networks of any service provider in the United States, with licensed and operational coverage in
all of the 100 most populous U.S. metropolitan areas. As of January 21, 2014, our 4G LTE network covers approximately 305 million people in the U.S., including those in areas served by our LTE in Rural America program.   
  We strive to provide our customers with the highest network reliability for their wireless services. We design and deploy our
network in an efficient manner that we believe maximizes the number of successful data sessions and completions of large file downloads and uploads while delivering on our advertised throughput speeds, and that maximizes the number of calls that are
connected on the first attempt and completed without being dropped. We plan to continue to expand and upgrade our network, primarily to increase capacity, as well as explore strategic opportunities to expand our national network coverage
through selective acquisitions of wireless operations and spectrum licenses.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to our own network coverage, we have roaming agreements with a number of
wireless service providers to enable our customers to receive wireless service in nearly all other areas in the United States where wireless service is available. We also offer a variety of international wireless voice and data services to our
customers through roaming arrangements with wireless service providers outside of the United States. Certain of our roaming agreements are terminable at will by either party upon several months  notice; however, we do not believe that the
termination of any of these at-will agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business.       Technology    
  Our primary network technology platforms are 4G LTE and 3G Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA). 4G LTE provides higher data throughput
performance for data services at a lower cost compared to those offered by 3G technologies. We continue working to expand 4G LTE coverage beyond our network footprint through our LTE in Rural America Program. We currently have 20 committed program
participants that have the potential to provide 4G LTE coverage to approximately three million people under the program and, to date, sixteen participants have commenced operations on such networks.   
  In 2012, we began testing our mobile Voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) network known as Voice over LTE (VoLTE). This technology, which
is expected to be used in addition to the current voice technology, is anticipated to launch commercially in 2014.      Our 3G
CDMA network is based on spread-spectrum digital radio technology. CDMA-1XRTT technology is deployed in nearly all of the cell sites in our 3G CDMA network. In addition, EV-DO, a 3G packet-based technology intended primarily for high-speed data
transmission, is deployed in substantially all of the cell sites in our 3G CDMA network.      Our network includes various
elements of redundancy designed to enhance the reliability of our service. Power and backhaul transport facilities can often become a network s vulnerability. Consequently, we have battery backup at every switch and every cell site in our
network. We also utilize backup generators at a majority of our cell sites and at every switch location. In addition, we have a fleet of portable backup generators that can be deployed to cell sites if needed. We further enhance reliability by using
a fully redundant backbone Multiprotocol Label Switching network in all critical locations.       Spectrum    
  The spectrum licenses we hold can be used for mobile wireless voice and data communications services. We have licenses to provide these
wireless services on portions of the 800 MHz band, also known as cellular spectrum, the 1800-1900 MHz band, also known as Personal Communication Services (PCS) spectrum, and the 1700 and 2100 MHz band, also known as Advanced Wireless Services (AWS)
spectrum, in areas that, collectively, cover nearly all of the population of the United States. In addition, we hold licenses for portions of the 700 MHz upper C band, including ten licenses that can, together, be used to provide wireless service
coverage to the entire United States and the Gulf of Mexico.      Since 2012, we have entered into several spectrum transactions including:

In 2012, Verizon Wireless acquired AWS spectrum in separate transactions with SpectrumCo, LLC and Cox TMI Wireless, LLC for which it paid an
aggregate of $3.9 billion at the time of the closings. During 2012, Verizon Wireless also completed license purchase and exchange transactions with Leap Wireless, Savary Island Wireless, which is majority owned by Leap Wireless, and a subsidiary of
T-Mobile USA. As a result of these transactions, Verizon Wireless received an aggregate $2.6 billion of AWS and PCS licenses at fair value and transferred certain AWS licenses to T-Mobile USA and a 700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license to Leap
Wireless.          

During the first quarter of 2013, we completed license exchange transactions with T-Mobile License LLC and Cricket License Company, LLC, a
subsidiary of Leap Wireless, to exchange certain AWS licenses. These non-cash exchanges include a number of intra-market swaps that we expect will enable Verizon Wireless to make more efficient use of the AWS band. As a result of these exchanges, we
received an aggregate $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value.          

During the third quarter of 2013, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless sold 39 lower 700 MHz B block spectrum
licenses to AT T in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion and the transfer by AT T to Verizon Wireless of AWS (10 MHz) licenses in certain markets in the western United States. Verizon Wireless also sold certain lower 700 MHz B block
spectrum licenses to an investment firm for a payment of $0.2 billion. As a result, we received $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value.          

During the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into license exchange agreements with T-Mobile USA to exchange certain AWS and PCS licenses. These
non-cash exchanges, which are subject to approval by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and other customary closing conditions, are expected to close in the first half of 2014. The exchange includes a number of swaps that we expect will
result in more efficient use of the AWS and PCS bands.      
         5   

Table of Contents  

Subsequent to the transaction with T-Mobile USA in the fourth quarter of 2013, on January 6, 2014, we announced two agreements with T-Mobile
USA with respect to our remaining 700 MHz A block spectrum licenses. Under one agreement, we will sell certain of these licenses to T-Mobile USA in exchange for cash consideration of approximately $2.4 billion, and under the second agreement we
will exchange the remainder of these licenses for AWS and PCS spectrum licenses. These transactions are subject to the approval of the FCC as well as other customary closing conditions. These transactions are expected to close in the middle of
2014.         We anticipate we will need additional spectrum to meet future demand. This increasing demand is being
driven by growth in customer connections and usage of wireless broadband services, which use more bandwidth and require ever faster rates of speed to stay competitive. We can meet spectrum needs by acquiring licenses or leasing spectrum from other
licensees, or by acquiring new spectrum licenses from the FCC, if and when offered by the FCC in future spectrum auctions. Although the availability of new spectrum for commercial wireless services and the possible dates of future FCC spectrum
auctions are uncertain at this time, the FCC and the current Presidential Administration have been seeking the release of additional mobile use spectrum. The FCC is expected to conduct an auction for AWS-3 spectrum in late 2014. In addition,
Congress has adopted legislation that provides for the establishment of a national public safety network and the reallocation and auction, through the use of voluntary incentive auctions, by 2022 of portions of the existing broadcast spectrum. The
incentive auction related to the 600 MHz band is expected to take place in mid-2015 although the specific timing of the AWS-3, 600 MHz and other auctions will be determined by future regulatory proceedings.   
  Since we and competing wireless service providers have experienced spectrum shortages in certain markets and may have spectrum surpluses
in others, we have at times exchanged spectrum licenses with other service providers through secondary market swap transactions. We expect to continue to pursue similar opportunities to trade spectrum licenses in order to meet certain of our
capacity and expansion needs in the future. In other cases, Verizon Wireless has entered into intra-market spectrum swaps designed to increase the amount of contiguous spectrum within frequency bands in a specific market. Contiguous spectrum
improves network performance and efficiency. These swaps as well as any spectrum purchases are subject to obtaining governmental approvals for the transfer of spectrum licenses in each instance.   
   Network Equipment and Build-out       Alcatel-Lucent and Ericsson are currently our primary network vendors for our LTE network deployments for macro sites as well as small cells. Our primary CDMA cell site equipment infrastructure vendors
are Alcatel-Lucent, which provides more than half of our CDMA cell site equipment, and Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN) and Ericsson, which together provide nearly all of our remaining cell site equipment. We also rely on Alcatel-Lucent, NSN and
Ericsson for our switching equipment.      As we continue to build and upgrade our existing network, we must complete a variety of
steps, including securing rights to a large number of sites and obtaining zoning and other governmental approvals for macro sites, small cells, in-building systems and antennas and related radio equipment that comprise distributed antenna systems.
We utilize tower site management firms, such as Crown Castle International Corp. and American Tower Corporation, as lessors or managers of a portion of our existing tower sites upon which our operations depend.   
   Marketing and Distribution       Our marketing strategy is focused on offering solutions tailored to the needs of our various customer market groups; promoting our brand; leveraging our extensive distribution network; and jointly
marketing our products and services to large business and government customers with Verizon s Wireline business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions, a sales and marketing organization that encompasses all of Verizon s solutions for
medium and large business and government customers globally. Our marketing plan includes a coordinated program of television, print, radio, outdoor signage, Internet and point-of-sale media promotions designed to present our corporate message
consistently across all of our markets. We use a combination of direct, indirect and alternative distribution channels in order to increase customer growth while reducing customer acquisition costs.   
  Company-operated stores are a core component of our distribution strategy. Our direct channel, which includes our business-to-business
sales operations and systems organization, is focused on supporting the wireless communications needs of consumers and local, regional and national business customers. In addition, we have a telemarketing sales force dedicated to handling incoming
calls from customers, and we offer fully-automated, end-to-end web-based sales of wireless devices, accessories and service plans.      In November 2013, we launched our first Verizon Destination store at Mall of America in Bloomington, Minnesota. The store focuses on the mobile lifestyle and highlights the many ways consumers can use
wireless technology in their daily lives. The store is part of a broader initiative that includes the redesign of our retail stores nationwide, to become  smart stores.  These newly redesigned locations showcase the same mobile lifestyle
zones as the Verizon Destination store but on a smaller scale. During the next few years, we plan to open additional destination stores in high traffic locations across the country. In addition, our online store and Gadgets   Gear portal
have also been redesigned to deliver a consistent shopping experience for customers across browsers and mobile platforms.      Our
indirect channel includes agents that sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services at retail locations throughout the United States, as well as through the Internet. The majority of these agents sell both our postpaid and prepaid
products and services, and do so under exclusive selling arrangements with us. We also utilize high-profile, national retailers, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart, RadioShack and Target, to sell our postpaid and prepaid wireless products and services.
Stores such as Dollar General and various drugstore chains sell our prepaid products and services. We have also entered into agency agreements with a number of broadband, video and voice service providers through which our products and services are
sold on a stand-alone basis or bundled with their services.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

    Competition       We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete against other national wireless service providers, including AT T, Sprint Corporation and T-Mobile USA, as well as various regional wireless
service providers. We also compete for retail activations with resellers that buy bulk wholesale service from facilities-based wireless service providers for resale, including those that buy from us. We expect competition to intensify as a result of
continuing increases in wireless market penetration levels, network investment, the development and deployment of new technologies, the introduction of new products and services, new market entrants, the availability of additional spectrum, both
licensed and unlicensed, and regulatory changes. Competition may also increase as smaller, stand-alone wireless service providers merge or transfer licenses to larger, better capitalized wireless service providers.   
  The wireless industry also faces competition from other communications and technology companies seeking to increase their brand
recognition and capture customer revenue with respect to the provision of wireless products and services. For example, Microsoft, Google, Apple and others are offering alternative means for making wireless voice calls that, in certain cases, can be
used in lieu of the wireless provider s voice service.      We believe that the following are the most important competitive factors in our
industry:       

Network reliability, capacity and coverage.  We believe that a wireless network that consistently provides high quality and reliable service
is a key differentiator in the U.S. market and a driver of customer satisfaction. Lower prices, improved service quality and new wireless service offerings, which in many cases include video content, have led to increased customer usage of wireless
services, which, in turn, puts pressure on network capacity. In order to compete effectively, wireless service providers must keep pace with network capacity needs and offer highly reliable national coverage through their networks. We believe that
our 4G LTE network will help us to keep pace with network capacity requirements and meet customer demand for higher speeds.          

Pricing.  Service and equipment pricing play an important role in the wireless competitive landscape. As the demand for wireless services
continues to grow, wireless service providers are offering service plans that include unlimited voice minutes and text messages and a specific amount of data access in varying megabyte or gigabyte sizes or, in some cases, unlimited data usage. In
addition, certain wireless service providers are also offering minutes-sharing plans; larger bundles of included minutes with no roaming or long distance charges; features that enable customers to place and receive calls from a group of
self-designated U.S. phone numbers (including landline numbers) at no additional charge; and both prepaid and postpaid plans offering unlimited voice and data usage. Wireless service providers are also offering price plans that decouple service
pricing from equipment pricing and blur the traditional boundary between prepaid and postpaid plans. In addition, some wireless service providers are offering a credit to new customers to reimburse early termination fees paid to their former
wireless service provider, subject to certain limitations.         We seek to compete in this area by offering our
customers price plans for our services, as well as equipment offers, that they will regard as the best available value for the price.       

Customer service.  We believe that high-quality customer service is a key factor in retaining customers and attracting new customers,
including those of other wireless providers. Our customer service, retention and satisfaction programs are based on providing customers with convenient and easy-to-use products and services in order to promote long-term relationships and minimize
churn. Our competitors also recognize the importance of customer service and are also focused on improving in this area.          

Product and service development.  As wireless technologies develop and wireless broadband networks proliferate, continued customer and revenue
growth will be increasingly dependent on the development of new and enhanced data products and services. We continue to pursue the development and rapid deployment of new and innovative wireless products and services both independently and in
collaboration with application service providers. We also collaborate with various device manufacturers in the development of distinctive smartphones and other wireless devices that can access the growing array of data applications and content
available over the Internet. We continue to focus on increasing smartphone penetration throughout our customer base.          

Sales and distribution.  Key to achieving sales success in the wireless industry is the reach and quality of sales channels and distribution
points. We believe that attaining the optimal combination of varying distribution channels is important to achieving industry-leading profitability, as measured by operating income. We endeavor to increase sales through our company-operated stores,
outside sales teams and telemarketing and web-based sales and fulfillment capabilities, as well as through our extensive indirect distribution network of retail outlets and prepaid replenishment locations and netbook and notebook OEMs. In addition,
we sell network access to both traditional resellers, which resell network services to their end-users, and to various companies to enable wireless communications for their M2M devices or for their provision of telematics services.

Capital resources.  In order to expand the capacity and coverage of their networks and introduce new products and services, wireless service
providers require significant capital resources. We generate significant cash flow from operations, as do some of our competitors.         Our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and respond to various factors affecting the wireless industry, including the factors described above, as well as new technologies, new business
models, changes in customer preferences, regulatory changes, demographic trends, economic conditions and pricing strategies of competitors.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

Wireline    
     Background       Our Wireline segment provides voice, data and video communications products and enhanced services including broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services,
security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and in
over 150 other countries around the world. In 2013, Wireline revenues were $39.2 billion, representing approximately 33% of Verizon s aggregate revenues.       Wireline Service and Product Offerings       We organize our service and product
offerings by the primary customers targeted by these offerings   mass markets, global enterprise and global wholesale.   
  In 2012, Verizon acquired HUGHES Telematics, Inc. (HUGHES Telematics). The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more
telematics offerings to market for existing and new customers. These offerings include our suite of real-time vehicle communications services and applications which connect automobiles with content, applications and services. We provide services to
new vehicles in the United States and in 2013, we extended our agreement with two auto manufacturers to provide services for new vehicles in China and in Europe. See  Strategic Initiatives   Verizon Telematics  for additional
information.      During 2011, we enhanced our offerings of cloud services by acquiring Terremark Worldwide Inc. (Terremark), a
global provider of information technology infrastructure and cloud services, and by acquiring a provider of cloud software technology. These acquisitions improved Verizon s competitive position in the managed hosting and cloud services space,
enhanced our offerings to business and government customers globally and contributed to our growth in revenues.        Mass Markets
       Mass Markets operations provide broadband services (including high-speed Internet, FiOS Internet and FiOS Video
services), local exchange (basic service and end-user access) and long distance (including regional toll) voice services to residential and small business subscribers. In 2013, Mass Markets revenues were $17.3 billion, representing approximately 44%
of Wireline s aggregate revenues.       Data services.  We offer FiOS broadband and high-speed Internet data products
with varying downstream and upstream processing speeds, including FiOS Quantum. With FiOS Quantum, customers can achieve download speeds up to 500 megabytes per second (Mbps) and upload speeds up to 100 Mbps. We believe that as consumers power more
devices and stream more video, they will require increased broadband speeds. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 45% of our FiOS Internet subscribers subscribe to FiOS Quantum.   
   Video Services.  We offer video service over our fiber-optic network. As of December 31, 2013, FiOS Video is available to
approximately 15 million homes across 12 states, as well as the District of Columbia. We believe FiOS Video has features that differentiate it from the competition, including its channel line-up, Interactive Media Guide, Home Media DVR and
breadth of high definition content, as well as the following:       

Flex View    With Flex View, FiOS customers can watch content anytime, anywhere, on any device. Customers who subscribe to FiOS Video and
Internet also have the ability to upload their photos, music and videos to their personal Flex View Library, which gives them easy access to this content via any data-capable device. The HBO GO offering provides customers with unlimited access to
HBO programming on any data-capable device. Verizon s FiOS Video subscribers can also access Turner Broadcasting s online programming directly on the TBS and TNT sites and through Verizon FiOS Video Online. In addition, through FiOS TV
Widgets, viewers have one-touch, on demand access to local weather, traffic and community information and popular social media applications, such as Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, as well as online commerce opportunities. The widget platform has
evolved in an open-development environment, which provides opportunities for third parties to develop enhanced customer features via the FiOS Video product.      

Customer Premise Equipment interoperability    We continue to partner with major corporations to offer further interoperability with
various products such as video game consoles, smart televisions and tablets. This technology further expands our initiative to provide customers with the ability to watch content anytime, anywhere, on any data-capable device.
         Voice services.  We offer voice services that include local exchange, regional, long distance, wire
maintenance and voice messaging services, as well as VoIP services, which use the Internet or private broadband networks to transmit voice communications.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

     Global Enterprise        Global Enterprise offers Strategic services, including networking products and solutions, advanced communications services, and other core communications services to medium and large business customers,
including multinational corporations, as well as state and federal government customers. Global Enterprise jointly markets these services with Verizon s other business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions. In 2013, Global Enterprise
revenues were $14.7 billion, representing approximately 38% of Wireline s aggregate revenues.       Strategic services. 
Strategic services consist of networking products and solutions, advanced communication services for voice and video, and security, infrastructure and cloud services.      Networking products and solutions primarily include:       

Private IP    This service, built on multiprotocol label switching, enables customers to leverage the efficiency, performance and value
of IP in a secure manner. Our Private IP network allows customers to communicate over a private, secure network in more than 120 countries using a variety of access methods, including Ethernet and Verizon Wireless 4G LTE.

Other corporate networking services    Other services primarily include Ethernet access and ring services. Ethernet services allow
customers to connect network environments around the world and enable applications and technologies to work seamlessly and with little disruption. Ring services include technologies that help customers handle bandwidth demands and control their
costs.         Advanced communication services primarily include:   

IP communications    Our IP communications services simplify network management and drive operational efficiencies by enabling the
convergence of voice and data traffic on the same access connection.          

Infrastructure and cloud services    Our infrastructure and cloud services include Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) and managed hosting
services that provide enterprise customers with data center, computing, data storage and network facilities, connectivity, security, architecture and support; data center colocation services that house and protect customers  critical
applications and systems, including several facilities that offer extensive carrier neutral options; application management services that provide customers with comprehensive monitoring and management of applications; and advanced enterprise-class
cloud services that provide organizations with the ability to virtualize IT resources such as computing, memory and storage, enabling their constituents to produce, store, process, consume and share information.      

Machine-to-Machine (M2M) Services    Our acquisition of HUGHES Telematics in July 2012 provided a technology platform that we are
leveraging in M2M markets, which has enabled us to further develop strategic partnerships in the automotive, transportation, energy, health monitoring, education and insurance industries. M2M services permit customers to connect and monitor
equipment, such as medical devices, fleet management devices and utility monitoring devices. We believe that these services, which are enabled on a large scale by 4G LTE wireless technology, have the ability to reshape the way businesses operate and
the way consumers interact with devices around them. Verizon offers platform-based solutions tailored to specific industries to enable value creation and new commercial business models. Our goal is to be a leader in implementing the next
generation of connected services for vehicles, centered on a core platform of safety, security, fleet management, convenience and other offerings targeting commercial fleet operators, individual consumers and other
customers.         

Security    We provide integrated solutions to help companies secure their networks and data through the following services:

Security professional services   
Security consultants that construct security plans tailored to the needs of our customers;      
               Governance, risk and compliance    Allows customers to assess risk levels based on current security
controls and develop plans to address security-related compliance objectives;                      Identity management    Provides identity-based access management for customer data, application, and systems across multiple IT environments;  
                   Managed security    We design,
implement, and maintain a secure IT infrastructure for our clients and help them prevent, detect, and report security threats.    

Other advanced communications services    Other services primarily include: dedicated Internet access, which provides enterprise
customers with high-bandwidth dedicated access to Verizon s global network, unified communications and collaboration capabilities, which enable customers to communicate in real time through VoIP and IP conferencing, and emergency communication
services, which allow customers to respond effectively to emergencies while maintaining business continuity.      
   Core services . Core services include core voice and data services, which consist of a comprehensive portfolio of global solutions
utilizing traditional telecommunications technology, such as conferencing and contact center solutions, and private line and data access networks. Core services also include providing customer premise equipment, installation, maintenance and site
services. We are continuing to transition customers out of historical core services such as Frame Relay and Asynchronous Transfer Mode services.        Global Wholesale        Global Wholesale provides communications services
including data, voice, local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance and other carriers that use our facilities to provide services to their customers. In 2013, Global Wholesale revenues were $6.7 billion, representing
approximately 17% of Wireline s aggregate revenues. A portion of Global Wholesale revenues is generated by a few large telecommunications companies, most of which compete directly with us.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

   Global Wholesale provides the following services, which it jointly markets with
Verizon s other business units through Verizon Enterprise Solutions:       

Data services.  We offer a robust portfolio of data services with varying speeds and options to enhance our wholesale customers  networks
and provide connections to their end users and subscribers. Our data services include high-speed digital data offerings, such as Ethernet and Synchronous Optical Network, as well as core data circuits, such as DS1s and DS3s. In addition, data
services include special access revenues that are generated from carriers that buy dedicated local exchange capacity to support their private networks.      
  New Ethernet connectivity in the United States represents the largest data growth opportunity in wholesale, as we pursue
our technology upgrade initiative and customers look to the future and higher capacity demands. These customers are also migrating networks from time division multiplexing to Ethernet, which will better scale and service the growth of broadband
services driven by smartphones, mobile broadband and mobile video. Global Wholesale offers a complete suite of services to support the expansion of 4G and 3G networks.   
  Data services also include certain value-added business services, which leverage many of the same offerings available in
the Global Enterprise portfolio, including:       

Managed services    Offers wholesale
customers the opportunity to outsource the management of their networks, security, remote access, and web applications to Verizon;      
               Mobility    Enables wholesale customers to enhance their portfolio to triple-play or quad-play capability
by leveraging wireless devices and services offered through Verizon Wireless and packaged and resold under their own carrier brand; and      
               Security    Provides wholesale customers integrated solutions to help their enterprise end-users secure
their networks and data.    

Voice services.  We provide switched access services that allow carriers to complete their end-user calls that originate or terminate within
our territory.          

Local services.  We offer an array of local dial tone and broadband services to competitive local exchange carriers, some of which are offered
to comply with telecommunications regulations. In addition, we offer services such as colocation, resale and unbundled network elements in compliance with applicable regulations.      
    Other        Other
services include such services as local exchange and long distance services derived from former MCI mass market customers and operator services. In 2013, Other revenues were $0.5 billion, representing approximately 1% of Wireline s aggregate
revenues.       Strategic Initiatives       Technology developments, interconnected markets, shifting consumer needs and converging industry ecosystems are creating innovative opportunities for Verizon. Our vision is to be a globally-connected
solutions company. Our market solutions are designed to deliver best-in-class products and services, strengthen our competitive advantage in the marketplace and drive a high-quality experience for our customers. To take advantage of these
market trends, we have undertaken several strategic initiatives to further develop innovative products and services and enhance our market agility in the following areas of focus:   

Broadband.  Customers are increasingly consuming large amounts of broadband data as connected devices and associated online applications
continue to experience significant growth. U.S. broadband usage has more than doubled in the past two years and we expect broadband usage to continue to increase. Our FiOS network positions us in the industry with leading broadband speeds and
reliability. Broadband represents a growth opportunity for us as the use of over-the-top video, user generated content and data, and connected homes and devices continue to accelerate.      

Consumer and Enterprise Video.  Our FiOS Video service continues to experience consumer growth. We are enhancing our FiOS service by providing
customers with increasing mobility options to view content in and out of the home to meet the demand for video consumption anywhere and at any time.          

Cloud Services.  Capitalizing on market growth in cloud services and on enterprise trends toward outsourcing IT infrastructure and services,
Verizon introduced an evolutionary cloud platform built for speed and performance, using our own software-based intellectual property and enterprise-grade reliability. Verizon Cloud Compute and Cloud Storage adopt a new approach to how public
clouds are built, enabling customers of all sizes to take advantage of the agility and economic benefit of a generic public cloud along with the reliability and scale of an enterprise-level service, while maintaining control of performance. Virtual
machines (software-based computers and servers) can be created and deployed in seconds, and users build and pay for what they need.         Our cloud infrastructure also enables real-time analytical capabilities for our M2M customers, providing an end-to-end capability where customers can store, process and analyze large amounts of data on a
real-time basis. Our cloud infrastructure also has the ability to handle multiple instances of an application providing global support and availability of the applications without increased latency. The integration of our cloud infrastructure with
our telematics assets provides our customers with new and innovative service capabilities that are scalable, and which we believe are operationally superior to other bifurcated approaches.   
         10   

Table of Contents  

Security.  With new technologies changing how enterprises do business, the cyber security landscape continues to evolve. We believe that
businesses are making business and customer data protection one of their highest priorities in order to protect their brand and enhance customer loyalty. We believe that Verizon has an advantage in its ability to reduce cyber risks and mitigate the
damaging impact of advanced cyber attacks due to the volume of traffic carried globally on our networks. We will continue to advance our portfolio of forensics services and managed security services, building new capabilities to identify risks and
threats and expanding our IT Security professional services and outsourcing.          

Verizon Telematics.  Our suite of real-time vehicle communications services and applications connects automobiles with content, services and
call centers. Our platform enables factory installed and aftermarket automotive safety and security as well as location-based services and vehicle diagnostics. We provide usage-based data services to new vehicles in the United States and in
2013 we extended our agreement with two auto manufacturers to provide services for new vehicles in China and in Europe. Through our In-Drive solution, we have partnered with a major automotive insurance provider to deliver usage-based insurance
programs and other connected applications. Our NetworkFleet solution provides commercial fleet managers throughout North America with real-time access to data that yields operational efficiencies, increased vehicle reliability and improved driver
safety. We also provide this service to approximately 18,000 vehicles operated by Verizon. We are further expanding our telematics portfolio to add asset tracking capabilities.      
  In addition to these strategic areas of focus, we are investing in Verizon Labs and the Software Center of Excellence to support software
development and architecture as well as development stage products and services. We believe these investments will assist us in bringing innovative next-generation products and services to market and uncover new sources of revenue, increase revenue
of existing projects and leverage our strengths across the company.       Network    
  To provide services to our customers, we operate an advanced telecommunications network in the United States and around the world.

FiOS.  Our goal is to distinguish FiOS as a premier residential broadband service in the United States. As of December 31, 2013, our FiOS
service passed over 18.5 million premises, and our latest FiOS Quantum service offerings now provide download speeds up to 500 Mbps and upload speeds up to 100 Mbps. New services such as the FiOS Mobile App are also extending our TV experience
to a host of mobile devices. We expect bandwidth demands to grow with the continued emergence of new video and data applications and the proliferation of IP devices in the home.      
  The Passive Optical Network technology upon which the FiOS network is deployed positions Verizon to meet growing bandwidth
requirements. Our network architecture provides the flexibility to adapt our facilities more easily to future product development. For example, new optical terminals can be added to the fiber-to-the-premise network providing greater bandwidth and
new services without any additional field construction. Select field trials have successfully achieved connection speeds of nearly one gigabit per second (Gbps), and when a more advanced next-generation technology has been connected to the
fiber-optic network, connection speeds of 10 Gbps have been reached, demonstrating the significant growth capacity built into the FiOS platform.      Additionally, this advanced optical network is also finding increased application opportunities in the business sector, especially as the industry seeks to migrate to Ethernet-based access services.

Global IP . Verizon owns and operates one of the largest global fiber networks with long haul, metro and submarine cable assets providing
connectivity to customers in over 150 countries. Verizon s global network encompasses over 830,000 route miles of terrestrial and undersea cable, serving the business community to support and enable far reaching international operations.
        Global IP traffic has increased substantially over the last five years and is expected to
continue to grow significantly. This global business is also rapidly evolving to an  everything-as-a-service  model in which business customers seek cloud-based, converged enterprise solutions delivered securely via managed and
professional services. With the continued deployment of its packet optical transport strategy, Verizon is creating a single, high-capacity global network platform that combines optical transport with advanced packet switching technology. The result
is a global IP network that can offer powerful solutions to these service demands.      Although overall Wireline
capital expenditures declined in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily as a result of decreased legacy spending requirements and a decline in spending on our FiOS network, we furthered our Global IP network expansion initiatives into Europe, Asia, Africa
and South America, as well as the continued deployment of the industry s first commercial 100G Gbps technology on U.S. and European backbone routes. More than 13,000 100G Ultra-Long-Haul route miles were added to the global IP network in 2013,
and we plan to further extend our 100G technology in 2014.      We believe that our continued focus on advancing our fiber-based
networks and achieving cost efficient solutions through new technology deployments will help Verizon advance its position as a provider of choice to residential and enterprise customers.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

    Competition       The wireline telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We expect competition to intensify further with traditional, non-traditional and emerging players seeking increased market share. Current
and potential competitors include cable companies, wireless service providers, other domestic and foreign telecommunications providers, satellite television companies, Internet service providers and other companies that offer network services and
managed enterprise solutions.      In addition, companies with a global presence increasingly compete with our wireline
businesses. A relatively small number of telecommunications and integrated service providers with global operations serve customers in the global enterprise and, to a lesser extent, global wholesale markets. We compete with these full or near-full
service providers for large contracts to provide integrated services to global enterprises. Many of these companies have a strong market presence, brand recognition, and existing customer relationships, all of which contribute to intensifying
competition and which may affect our future revenue growth.      We believe the following are the most important competitive factors and trends in
the wireline industry:       

Customer service : Customers expect industry-leading service from their service providers. As technologies and services evolve, the ability to
excel in this area is very important for customer acquisition and retention. In Mass Markets, we compete in this area through our service representatives and online support. In Global Enterprise, we provide our customers with ready access to their
system and performance information, and we conduct proactive testing of our network to identify issues before they affect customers. In the wholesale business, we believe service improvement can be achieved through continued system automation
initiatives.          

Network reliability and bandwidth (speed):  As both consumers and small business customers look to leverage high-speed connections for
entertainment, communications and productivity, we expect broadband penetration will continue to increase over the next several years. As online and online-enabled activities increase, so will bandwidth requirements, both downstream and upstream. To
succeed, we and other network-based providers must ensure that our networks can deliver against these increasing bandwidth requirements. We continue to invest in our network to be able to meet this future demand. In addition, network reliability and
security are increasingly important competitive factors in the global enterprise market.          

Pricing:  Cable, telecommunications companies and integrated service providers use pricing to capture market share from incumbents. Pricing is
also a significant factor as non-traditional modes of providing communication services emerge and new entrants compete for customers. For example, VoIP and portal-based calling is free or nearly free to customers and is often supported by
advertising revenues.          

Product differentiation:  As a result of pricing pressures, providers need to differentiate their products and services. Customers are
shifting their focus from access to applications and are seeking ways to leverage their broadband and video connections. Converged features, such as integrated wireless and wireline functionality, are becoming similarly important, driven by both
customer demand and technological advancement.         In the Mass Markets business, cable operators are
significant competitors. Cable operators have increased the size and digital capacity of their networks so that they can offer digital products and services. We continue to market competitive bundled offerings that include high-speed Internet
access, digital television and voice services. Several major cable operators also offer bundles with wireless services through strategic relationships.      In addition, wireless substitution is an ongoing competitive trend, which we expect to continue as wireless companies position their service as a landline alternative. We also face increasing competition
from cable companies and other providers of VoIP services as well as Internet portal providers.      As a result of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which requires us to allow potential competitors to purchase our services for resale or access components of our network on an unbundled basis at a prescribed cost, competition in our local exchange markets continues.
Our telephone operations generally have been required to sell their services to competitive local exchange carriers at significant discounts from the prices our telephone operations charge their retail customers. The scope of these obligations going
forward and the rates we receive are subject to ongoing review and revision by the FCC and state regulators. (See  Regulatory and Competitive Trends  in the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners.)   
  In the global enterprise market, the customer s need to reduce technical complexity coupled with the growth opportunity created by
technology convergence is driving the expansion of the competitive landscape. Major competitors include system integrators, carriers and hardware and software providers. Some of the biggest companies in IT services are either making acquisitions or
forging new alliances to be better positioned for a rebound in technology spending. Most new alliances and acquisitions have focused on emerging fields such as cloud computing, software delivery, communication applications and other computing tasks
via the network, rather than on in-house machines. Carriers have also utilized acquisitions to make significant inroads into enterprise outsourcing markets that have long been dominated by the major IT outsourcers.   
  Global Wholesale competes with traditional carriers for long-haul, voice and IP services. In addition, mobile video and data needs are
driving a greater need for wireless backhaul. Network providers, cable companies and niche players are competitors for this new revenue opportunity.   
         12   

Table of Contents  

Patents, Trademarks and Licenses    
    Verizon owns or has licenses to various patents, copyrights, trademarks, domain names and other
intellectual property rights necessary to conduct our business. We actively pursue the filing and registration of patents, copyrights, domain names, trademarks and service marks to protect our intellectual property rights within the United States
and abroad. Verizon also actively grants licenses, in exchange for appropriate fees or other consideration and subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to other companies that enable such companies to utilize certain Verizon intellectual
property rights and proprietary technology as part of their products and services. Such licenses enable such third party licensees to take advantage of the results of Verizon s research and development efforts. While these licenses result in
valuable consideration being paid to Verizon, we do not believe that loss of such consideration, or the expiration of any of our intellectual property rights, would have a material effect on our results of operations.   
  Verizon periodically receives offers from third parties to purchase or obtain licenses for patents and other intellectual property rights
in exchange for royalties or other payments. We also periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third party patents or other intellectual property rights. These claims, whether against us directly or against
third-party suppliers of products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, if successful, could require us to pay damages or royalties, or cease offering the relevant products or services.   

Acquisitions and Divestitures    
     Acquisitions and Divestitures  on pages 32 through 33 of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to
Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.       

Regulatory and Competitive Trends    
     Regulatory and Competitive Trends  included in  Other Factors That May Affect Future
Results  on pages 34 through 35 of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.       

Environmental Matters    
     Environmental Matters  included in  Other Factors That May Affect Future Results  on
page 35 of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners is incorporated by reference into this report.       

Executive Officers    
    See Part III, Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our executive officers.       

Employees    
    As of December 31, 2013, Verizon and its subsidiaries had approximately 176,800 employees. Unions
represent approximately 28% of our employees.       

Information on Our Internet Website    
    We make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports at www.verizon.com/investor. Verizon has adopted a code of ethics, as that term is defined in Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K, which applies to our Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller. A copy of this code may be found on our website at www.verizon.com/investor. Any amendments to this code or any waiver of this code for any executive officer will be posted on that website.
  
         13   

Table of Contents  

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements    
    In this report we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and
assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the
words  anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   hopes  or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.      The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere in this report and in
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:   

the ability to realize the expected benefits of the Wireless Transaction in the timeframe expected or at all;      

an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit
markets affecting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of further financing;          

significantly increased levels of indebtedness as a result of the Wireless Transaction;      

changes in tax laws or treaties, or in their interpretation;      

adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;      

material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact;

material changes in technology or technology substitution;      

disruption of our key suppliers  provisioning of products or services;      

changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks;

breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any
resulting financial impact not covered by insurance;          

the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate;      

changes in accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or
their application, which could result in an impact on earnings;          

significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; and      

the inability to implement our business strategies.      
         14   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.    Risk Factors       
     The following discussion of  Risk Factors  identifies the most significant factors that may
adversely affect our business, operations, financial condition or future performance. This information should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations  and the
consolidated financial statements and related notes. The following discussion of risks is not all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our business and expectations. These factors
could cause our future results to differ materially from our historical results and from expectations reflected in forward-looking statements.         Adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies could impact our results of operations.        Unfavorable economic conditions, such as a recession or economic slowdown in the United States or elsewhere, could negatively affect the affordability of and demand for some of our products and services.
In difficult economic conditions, consumers may seek to reduce discretionary spending by forgoing purchases of our products, electing to use fewer higher margin services or obtaining lower-cost products and services offered by other companies.
Similarly, under these conditions, the business customers that we serve may delay purchasing decisions, delay full implementation of service offerings or reduce their use of services. In addition, adverse economic conditions may lead to an increased
number of our consumer and business customers that are unable to pay for services. If these events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.        We face significant competition that may reduce our profits.        We
face significant competition in our industry. The rapid development of new technologies, services and products has eliminated many of the traditional distinctions among wireless, cable, Internet, local and long distance communication services and
brought new competitors to our markets, including other telephone companies, cable companies, wireless service providers, satellite providers, application and device providers, electric utilities and providers of VoIP services. While these changes
have enabled us to offer new types of products and services, they have also allowed other providers to broaden the scope of their own competitive offerings. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on, among other things, our network quality,
capacity and coverage, the pricing of our products and services, the quality of our customer service, our development of new and enhanced products and services, the reach and quality of our sales and distribution channels and our capital resources.
It will also depend on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various factors affecting our industry, including new technologies and business models, changes in consumer preferences and demand for existing services, demographic trends and
economic conditions. If we are not able to respond successfully to these competitive challenges, we could experience reduced profits.   
    If we are not able to adapt to changes in technology and address changing consumer demand on a timely basis, we may experience a decline in the
demand for our services, be unable to implement our business strategy and experience reduced profits.        Our industry is
experiencing rapid change as new technologies are developed that offer consumers an array of choices for their communications needs. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need to adapt to future changes in technology, enhance our existing
offerings and introduce new offerings to address our customers  changing demands. If we are unable to meet future challenges from competing technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, we could lose customers to our competitors. We
may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. In addition, there could be legal or regulatory restraints on our introduction of new services. If our services fail to gain acceptance in the
marketplace, or if costs associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase, our ability to retain and attract customers could be adversely affected.   
  In addition to introducing new technologies and offerings, we must phase out outdated and unprofitable technologies and services. If we
are unable to do so on a cost-effective basis, we could experience reduced profits. In addition, there could be legal or regulatory restraints on our ability to phase out current services.        We depend on key suppliers and vendors to provide equipment that we need to operate our business.        We depend on various key suppliers and vendors to provide us, directly or through other suppliers, with equipment and services, such as switch and network equipment and handsets, that we need in order to
operate our business and provide products to our customers. For example, our handset and other device suppliers often rely on one vendor for the manufacture and supply of critical components, such as chipsets, used in their devices. If these
suppliers or vendors fail to provide equipment or service on a timely basis or fail to meet our performance expectations, we may be unable to provide products and services as and when requested by our customers. We also may be unable to continue to
maintain or upgrade our networks. Because of the costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to, or chose to, replace the products or
services of one or more major suppliers with products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could increase our costs, decrease our operating efficiencies and have a
material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.      The suppliers and vendors on which we
rely may also be subject to litigation with respect to technology on which we depend, including litigation involving claims of patent infringement. Such claims have been growing rapidly in the communications industry. We are unable to predict
whether our business will be affected by any such litigation. We expect our dependence on key suppliers to continue as we develop and introduce more advanced generations of technology.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

     Changes in the regulatory framework under which we operate could adversely affect our
business prospects or results of operations.        Our domestic operations are subject to regulation by the FCC and other
federal, state and local agencies, and our international operations are regulated by various foreign governments and international bodies. These regulatory regimes frequently restrict or impose conditions on our ability to operate in designated
areas and to provide specified products or services. We are frequently required to maintain licenses for our operations and conduct our operations in accordance with prescribed standards. We are often involved in regulatory and other governmental
proceedings related to the application of these requirements. It is impossible to predict with any certainty the outcome of pending federal and state regulatory proceedings relating to our operations, or the reviews by federal or state courts of
regulatory rulings. Without relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and introduce new products and services. Similarly, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining the licenses needed to
carry out our business plan or in maintaining our existing licenses. For example, the FCC grants wireless licenses for terms generally lasting 10 years, subject to renewal. The loss of, or a material limitation on, certain of our licenses could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.      New laws or regulations or changes
to the existing regulatory framework at the federal, state and local, or international level could restrict the ways in which we manage our wireline and wireless networks, impose additional costs, impair revenue opportunities, and potentially impede
our ability to provide services in a manner that would be attractive to us and our customers. For example, certain services could be subject to conflicting regulation by the FCC and/or various state and local authorities, which could significantly
increase the cost of implementing and introducing new services. As another example, we hold certain wireless licenses that require us to comply with so-called  open access  FCC regulations, which generally require licensees of particular
spectrum to allow customers to use devices and applications of their choice. In addition, our broadband Internet access services are subject to various attempts to impose so-called  network neutrality  rules, some of which were affirmed
and others vacated on appeal in early 2014. Proponents of these rules want to limit the ways that a broadband Internet access service provider can structure business arrangements and manage its network. The further regulation of broadband, wireless,
and our other activities and any related court decisions could restrict our ability to compete in the marketplace and limit the return we can expect to achieve on past and future investments in our networks.   
    Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology security could have an adverse effect on our business.     
  Cyber attacks or other breaches of network or information technology (IT) security may cause equipment failures or disruptions to our
operations. Our inability to operate our wireline or wireless networks as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other communications providers. In addition,
the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Cyber attacks, which include the use of malware, computer viruses and other means for disruption or unauthorized access, on companies, including
Verizon, have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. While, to date, we have not been subject to cyber attacks or other cyber incidents which, individually or in the aggregate, have been material to our operations or
financial condition, the preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber attack in the future. The costs associated with a major cyber
attack on Verizon could include expensive incentives offered to existing customers and business partners to retain their business, increased expenditures on cyber security measures, lost revenues from business interruption and litigation. Further,
certain of Verizon s businesses, including the provisioning of security solutions and infrastructure and cloud services to business customers, could be negatively affected if our ability to protect our own networks is called into question as a
result of a cyber attack. In addition, if we fail to prevent the theft of valuable information such as financial data, sensitive information about Verizon and intellectual property, or if we fail to protect the privacy of customer and employee
confidential data against breaches of network or IT security, it could result in damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact customer and investor confidence. Any of these occurrences could result in a material adverse effect on our
results of operations and financial condition.        Natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war could cause damage to our
infrastructure and result in significant disruptions to our operations.        Our business operations are subject to
interruption by natural disasters, power outages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts and events beyond our control. Such events could cause significant damage to our infrastructure upon which our business operations rely, resulting in degradation
or disruption of service to our customers. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our system redundancy may be
ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. These events could also damage the infrastructure of the suppliers that provide us with the equipment and services we need to operate our
business and provide products to our customers. A natural disaster or other event causing significant physical damage could cause us to experience substantial losses resulting in significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. In
addition, these occurrences could result in lost revenues from business interruption as well as damage to our reputation.   
    Verizon s debt has increased significantly and could increase further if Verizon incurs additional debt in the future and does
not retire existing debt.        As of December 31, 2013, Verizon had approximately $93.6 billion of outstanding
indebtedness, as well as approximately $6.1 billion of unused borrowing capacity under its existing credit facility. Since that date, Verizon has incurred $20.3 billion of additional indebtedness and became entitled to draw upon an additional $2
billion of borrowing capacity under a 364-day revolving credit agreement. Verizon s debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including:   

requiring Verizon to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on its debt and
the preferred stock issued by the entity acquired from Vodafone, which would reduce the funds Verizon has available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions;      
         16   

Table of Contents  

making it more difficult or expensive for Verizon to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes;          

reducing Verizon s flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in its industry and market conditions;      

making Verizon more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in its business; and      

exposing Verizon to increased interest rate risk given that a portion of its debt obligations are at variable interest rates.
        In addition, the term loan agreement Verizon entered into in connection with the Wireless Transaction
requires Verizon to maintain a certain leverage ratio unless Verizon s credit ratings are at or above a certain level, which could limit Verizon s ability to obtain additional financing in the future.   
    Adverse changes in the credit markets could increase our borrowing costs and the availability of financing.     
  We require a significant amount of capital to operate and grow our business. We fund our capital needs in part through borrowings in the
public and private credit markets. Adverse changes in the credit markets, including increases in interest rates, could increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or refinance existing
indebtedness. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by customary credit metrics. A decrease
in these ratings would likely increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing. A severe disruption in the global financial markets could impact some of the financial institutions with which we do business, and
such instability could also affect our access to financing.        Increases in costs for pension benefits and active and
retiree healthcare benefits may reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments.        With approximately
176,800 employees and approximately 209,000 retirees as of December 31, 2013 eligible to participate in Verizon s benefit plans, the costs of pension benefits and active and retiree healthcare benefits have a significant impact on our
profitability. Our costs of maintaining these plans, and the future funding requirements for these plans, are affected by several factors, including the continuing implementation of the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
and the Health Care Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, increases in healthcare costs, decreases in investment returns on funds held by our pension and other benefit plan trusts and changes in the discount rate used to calculate pension and other
postretirement expenses. If we are unable to limit future increases in the costs of our benefit plans, those costs could reduce our profitability and increase our funding commitments.   
    A significant portion of our workforce is represented by labor unions, and we could incur additional costs or experience work
stoppages as a result of the renegotiation of our labor contracts.        As of December 31, 2013, approximately 28% of
our workforce was represented by labor unions. We are currently engaged in contract negotiations with labor unions representing approximately 2,900 employees of our wireline business, and we will engage in additional negotiations as other labor
contracts expire in the future. Depending on the outcome of these negotiations, we could incur additional costs and/or experience lengthy work stoppages, which could adversely affect our business operations, including causing a loss of revenue
and strained relationships with customers.        We are subject to a significant amount of litigation, which could require us to pay
significant damages or settlements.        Our business faces a substantial amount of litigation, including, from time to
time, patent infringement lawsuits, antitrust class actions, wage and hour class actions, personal injury claims and lawsuits relating to our advertising, sales, billing and collection practices. In addition, our wireless business also faces
personal injury and consumer class action lawsuits relating to alleged health effects of wireless phones or radio frequency transmitters, and class action lawsuits that challenge marketing practices and disclosures relating to alleged adverse health
effects of handheld wireless phones. We may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay significant awards or settlements.        Sales of shares of Verizon common stock after the completion of the Wireless Transaction may cause the market price of Verizon common stock to fall.     
  As of December 31, 2013, Verizon had approximately 2.86 billion shares of common stock outstanding. Verizon issued approximately 1.27
billion shares of Verizon common stock in connection with the Wireless Transaction. The issuance of these new shares of Verizon common stock could have the effect of depressing the market price for Verizon common stock.   
  In addition, many Vodafone shareholders are already shareholders of Verizon and those shareholders may decide not to hold the additional
Verizon shares they received in the Wireless Transaction. Other Vodafone shareholders, such as funds with geographic limitations on their permitted investments, may be required to sell the shares of Verizon common stock that they received in the
Wireless Transaction. Such sales of Verizon common stock could also have the effect of depressing the market price for Verizon common stock.   
         17   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments       
    None.       

Item 2.    Properties       
    Our principal properties do not lend themselves to simple description by character and location. Our total
investment in plant, property and equipment was approximately $221 billion at December 31, 2013 and $210 billion at December 31, 2012, including the effect of retirements, but before deducting accumulated depreciation. Our gross investment
in plant, property and equipment consisted of the following:       
    Our properties as a percentage of total properties are as follows:   
   
    Network equipment consists primarily of cable (aerial, buried, underground or undersea) and the related
support structures of poles and conduit, wireless plant, switching equipment, network software, transmission equipment and related facilities. Land, buildings and building equipment consists of land and land improvements, central office buildings or
any other buildings that house network equipment, and buildings that are used for administrative and other purposes. Substantially all the switching centers are located on land and in buildings we own due to their critical role in the network and
high set-up relocation costs. We also maintain facilities throughout the United States comprised of administrative and sales offices, customer care centers, retail sales locations, garage work centers, switching centers, cell sites and data centers.
Furniture and other consists of telephone equipment, furniture, data processing equipment, office equipment, motor vehicles, plant under construction, capitalized non-network computer software costs and leasehold improvements. A portion of our
property is subject to the liens of their respective mortgages securing funded debt.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.    Legal Proceedings       
    On September 15, 2010, the U.S. Bank National Association (U.S. Bank), as Litigation Trustee for the
Idearc Inc. Litigation Trust (Litigation Trust), filed suit in U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas against Verizon and certain subsidiaries challenging the November 2006 spin-off of Verizon s former directories business then
known as Idearc Inc. U.S. Bank, which represents a group of creditors who filed claims in Idearc s bankruptcy, alleged that Idearc was insolvent at the time of the spin-off or became insolvent shortly thereafter. The Litigation Trust sought
over $9 billion in damages. Following a two-week trial in October 2012 limited to the question of the value of Idearc Inc. on the date of the spin-off, on January 22, 2013, the Court issued a decision finding that the value was  at least
$12 billion.  As $12 billion exceeds the value of the debt and cash that Idearc transferred to Verizon on the date of the spin-off, the Court issued a related Order to Show Cause directing the Litigation Trust to submit a brief that
 explains why any (or all) of its legal claims are viable in light of the court s finding on Idearc s value.  In its June 18, 2013 decision, the Court entered judgment for Verizon and its subsidiaries and ruled that U.S.
Bank would  take nothing  on its claims. U.S. Bank appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, where briefing is scheduled to be completed in the first quarter of 2014.   
  On October 25, 2011, a Litigation Trust created during the bankruptcy proceedings of FairPoint Communications, Inc. filed a
complaint in state court in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina, against Verizon and other related entities. The complaint claims that FairPoint s acquisition of Verizon s landline operations in Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont in March
2008 was structured and carried out in a way that left FairPoint insolvent or led to its insolvency shortly thereafter and ultimately to its October 2009 bankruptcy. The Litigation Trust seeks approximately $2 billion in damages. Verizon removed the
case to the United States District Court for the Western District of North Carolina in November 2011. At the close of discovery in February 2012, Verizon filed a summary judgment motion to dismiss the two counts in the complaint constructive
fraudulent transfer and actual fraudulent transfer. On June 12, 2013, the Court granted Verizon s summary judgment motion in part, dismissing the Litigation Trust s constructive fraudulent transfer claim. A two-week bench trial
limited to the actual fraudulent transfer claim concluded December 15, 2013.      In October 2013, the California Attorney
General s Office notified Verizon California Inc. and other Verizon companies of potential violations of California state hazardous waste statutes primarily arising from the disposal of electronic components, batteries and aerosol cans at
certain California facilities. We are cooperating with this investigation and continue to review our operations relating to the management of hazardous waste. While penalties relating to the alleged violations could exceed $100,000, we do not expect
that any penalties ultimately incurred will be material.       

Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures       
    None.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

PART
II     
 
           Item 5.    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities       
    The principal market for trading in the common stock of Verizon is the New York Stock Exchange. As of
December 31, 2013, there were 585,931 shareowners of record.      High and low stock prices, as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange composite tape of transactions, and dividend data are as follows:       
    On February 3, 2011, the Board approved a share buyback program which authorized the repurchase of
up to 100 million shares of Verizon common stock terminating no later than the close of business on February 28, 2014. The Board also determined that no additional shares were to be purchased under the previously authorized buyback
program. The program permits Verizon to repurchase shares over time, with the amount and timing of repurchases depending on market conditions and corporate needs. The Company may also enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans from time to time to facilitate
repurchases of its shares under this authorization. A Rule 10b5-1 plan permits the Company to repurchase shares at times when it might otherwise be prevented from doing so, provided the plan is adopted when the Company is not aware of material
non-public information.      During the fourth quarter of 2013, Verizon did not repurchase any shares of Verizon common stock. At
December 31, 2013, the maximum number of shares that could be purchased by or on behalf of Verizon under our share buyback program was 96.5 million.      For other information required by this item, see the section entitled  Stock Performance Graph  on page 9 of the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners, which is incorporated herein by
reference.       

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading  Selected Financial Data  on page 9, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 7.    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  on pages 10 through 28, which is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners under the
heading  Market Risk  on page 29, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data       
    Information required by this item is included in the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners on pages 38
through 71, which is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure       
    None.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures       
    Our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report, that ensure that information relating to the
registrant which is required to be disclosed in this report is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within required time periods. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer have concluded that the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2013.      In the ordinary course of
business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes intended to ensure an effective internal control environment. We are continuing an initiative to implement new financial
systems that will continue in phases over the next several quarters. We are also continuing an initiative to standardize and centralize transaction-processing activities within our accounting processes, which we expect to continue over the next
several years. These initiatives will incorporate certain changes in personnel as well. In connection with these initiatives and the resulting changes in our financial systems and transaction-processing activities, the Company continues to enhance
the design and documentation of our internal control processes to ensure that controls over our financial reporting remain effective.      Except as noted above, there were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.      Management s report on internal control over financial
reporting and the attestation report of Verizon s independent registered public accounting firm are included in the 2013 Verizon Annual Report to Shareowners on pages 36 and 37 and are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 9B.    Other Information       
    None.       

PART
III     
 
           Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance       
    Set forth below is information with respect to our executive officers.   

Name  
      
  Age  

Office  
      
  Held Since   

Lowell C. McAdam   

59  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
      
  2011   
 
    Roy H. Chestnutt   

54  

Executive Vice President   Strategy, Development and Planning  
      
  2013   
 
    Roger Gurnani   

53  

Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer  
      
  2010   
 
    Daniel S. Mead   

60  

Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer   Verizon Wireless   
      
  2010   
 
    Anthony J. Melone   

53  

Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer  
      
  2010   
 
    Randal S. Milch   

55  

Executive Vice President   Public Policy and General Counsel  
      
  2008   
 
    W. Robert Mudge   

54  

President   Consumer and Mass Business Markets  
      
  2012   
 
    Marc C. Reed   

55  

Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer  
      
  2004   
 
    Francis J. Shammo   

53  

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
      
  2010   
 
    Anthony T. Skiadas   

45  

Senior Vice President and Controller  
      
  2013   
 
    John G. Stratton   

52  

Executive Vice President and President   Verizon Enterprise Solutions  
      
  2012   
 
    Marni M. Walden   

46  

Executive Vice President and President   Product and New Business Innovation   
      
  2014   
    Prior to serving as an executive officer, each of the above officers has held high-level managerial
positions with the Company or one of its subsidiaries for at least five years, with the exception of Mr. Chestnutt, who has been with the Company since 2011. Officers are not elected for a fixed term of office and may be removed from office at
any time at the discretion of the Board of Directors.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

Roy H. Chestnutt is Executive Vice President   Strategy, Development and Planning for Verizon. From the time he joined the Company in 2011 until he was appointed to his current role in
January 2013, Mr. Chestnutt was Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy. Prior to joining Verizon, Mr. Chestnutt served as Corporate Vice President of the Americas at Motorola Networks from June 2010 to June 2011, and from 2006 to
2009, Mr. Chestnutt was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Grande Communications Networks (Grande), a facilities-based provider of bundled communications services. Prior to joining Grande, Mr. Chestnutt held a variety of management
positions with Sprint-Nextel Corporation, Nextel Communications and AirTouch Communications.      Set forth below is information
with respect to Directors currently in office who are retiring from the Board of Directors in April 2014 and are not standing for re-election:       Sandra O. Moose       Dr. Moose, 72, is President of Strategic Advisory
Services LLC, a consulting firm. She was Senior Managing Partner of The Boston Consulting Group, Inc. (BCG) until 2004. At BCG, Dr. Moose provided strategic planning, operational effectiveness and related consulting services to global clients in a
variety of industries, including consumer and industrial goods, financial services and telecommunications, over a 35-year career. Dr. Moose was a principal founder of BCG s Financial Services practice and a key contributor to the development of
the firm s early management concepts. She led BCG s New York office from 1988 to 1998 and was Chair of the East Coast region, which accounted for approximately 20% of BCG s overall revenues, from 1994 to 1999.   
  Dr. Moose s experience at BCG as a strategic advisor to diverse clients enables her to advise the Board and senior management on key
issues of corporate strategy, including with respect to global growth, consumer goods and telecommunications issues. In addition to her strategic planning expertise, Dr. Moose has been the chair or presiding director of several public companies and
several charitable organizations, which has given her extensive expertise in corporate governance. Dr. Moose also brings to the Board substantial financial expertise and insights into the views of institutional investors, which are important to
Verizon as a public company.      Dr. Moose has served as a Director of Verizon since 2000 and was a director of GTE Corporation
from 1978 to 2000. She is Presiding Director, Chairperson of the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. Dr. Moose is also Chairperson of the Board of Trustees of Natixis Advisor Funds (where she has served as
a trustee of the funds and their predecessors since 1982) and Loomis Sayles Funds (where she has served as a trustee since 2003) and a director of The AES Corporation (since 2004). In the past five years, Dr. Moose has served on the board of Rohm
and Haas Company as its lead director.       Joseph Neubauer    
  Mr. Neubauer, 72, is Chairman of ARAMARK Holdings Corporation and its subsidiary, ARAMARK Corporation, a professional services company.
Until May 2012, he was also the Chief Executive Officer. He has served in those roles with ARAMARK and its predecessors for more than 25 years. ARAMARK s approximately 272,000 employees provide food, hospitality, facility and uniform services
in 22 countries and generated $13.9 billion in revenue during its 2013 fiscal year. Mr. Neubauer joined ARAMARK s predecessor, ARA Services, in 1979 as Executive Vice President of Finance and Development, Chief Financial Officer and a director.
He was elected President in 1981, Chief Executive Officer in 1983 and Chairman in 1984.      During his long tenure as Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of ARAMARK, Mr. Neubauer gained business and management experience leading a large, complex organization with international operations and a large, diverse workforce. This experience gives him a thorough understanding of
many important issues facing Verizon. Mr. Neubauer brings to the Board, along with other skills and qualifications, extensive expertise in corporate finance, strategy and development. His broad background in hospitality and professional services, as
well as his in-depth knowledge of consumer services, gives Mr. Neubauer insights on reaching retail and business customers, which is critical to Verizon s success.      Mr. Neubauer has served as a Director of Verizon since 1995 and is Chairperson of the Human Resources Committee. He is also a director of Macy s, Inc. (since 1992).   
   Hugh B. Price       Mr. Price, 72, is a Non-Resident Senior Fellow at The Brookings Institution, an independent research and policy institute. Mr. Price was President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Urban League
from 1994 until 2003. During that time, Mr. Price restructured its board of directors, developed a new mission for the League and established its research and policy center. Following his work at the National Urban League, Mr. Price was Senior
Advisor of DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary US LLP from 2003 to 2005 and a Non-Resident Senior Fellow of the Economic Studies Program at The Brookings Institution from 2006 to 2008. From 2008 to June 2013, he served as a visiting professor at the Woodrow
Wilson School at Princeton University. Prior to joining the National Urban League, Mr. Price held a variety of positions in journalism, law and public interest organizations, including serving on the Editorial Board of  The New York Times .
  
         22   

Table of Contents  

   Mr. Price brings to the Board, among other skills and qualifications, a wide range of
experience in leadership positions in both the private and non-profit sectors. As a result of his experience at the National Urban League and The Brookings Institution, Mr. Price is able to advise the Board and senior management on economic,
government and public interest issues. His extensive management and leadership experience enables him to provide insights on corporate governance matters. He also has expertise in strategic planning, operations management and business services,
which are critical issues for Verizon.      Mr. Price has served as a Director of Verizon since 1997 and was a Director of NYNEX
Corporation from 1995 to 1997. He is a member of the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee. Mr. Price is also a director of MetLife, Inc. (since 1999) and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (since 1994).   
  Other information required by this item is incorporated by reference to the biographies of the Directors standing for re-election on
pages 11-16 of Exhibit 99, the section entitled  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  on page 59 of Exhibit 99, the section entitled  Business Conduct and Ethics  on page 2 of Exhibit 99, and the information
relating to the Audit Committee on page 5 of Exhibit 99. There have been no material changes to shareholder nominating procedures.       

Item 11.    Executive Compensation       
    Information with respect to executive compensation is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
 Compensation Discussion and Analysis  and  Compensation Tables  on pages 31-57 of Exhibit 99. The Compensation Committee Report is incorporated by reference to page 31 of Exhibit 99. There were no compensation committee
interlocks or insider transactions required to be disclosed pursuant to item 407(e)(4) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.       

Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters       
    Information with respect to security ownership is incorporated by reference to the section entitled
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  on pages 57-59 of Exhibit 99.      The following table
provides information as of December 31, 2013 for (i) all equity compensation plans previously approved by the Company s shareholders, and (ii) all equity compensation plans not previously approved by the Company s
shareholders. Since May 9, 2009, the Company has only issued awards under the 2009 Verizon Communications Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (2009 LTIP), which provides for awards of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units,
performance stock units and other equity-based hypothetical stock units to employees of Verizon and its subsidiaries. No new awards are permitted to be issued under any other equity compensation plan. In accordance with SEC rules, the table does not
include outstanding awards that are payable solely in cash by the terms of the award, and such awards do not reduce the number of shares remaining for issuance under the 2009 LTIP.   

(1)  
    This amount includes: 982,881 shares of common stock subject to outstanding stock options, 16,120,285 shares of common stock subject to outstanding
restricted stock units and performance stock units, and 30,760 shares subject to outstanding deferred stock units, in each case including, for awards other than stock options, dividend equivalents accrued on such awards through December 31,
2013. This does not include performance stock units, deferred stock units and deferred share equivalents payable solely in cash. None of the outstanding stock options include tandem dividend equivalent rights.      

(2)  
    This number reflects the weighted average exercise price of outstanding stock options. Verizon s outstanding restricted stock units,
performance stock units and deferred stock units do not have exercise prices associated with the settlement of these awards.          

(3)  
    This number reflects the number of shares of common stock that remained available for future issuance under the 2009 LTIP.

(4)  
    This number reflects shares subject to deferred stock units credited to the Verizon Income Deferral Plan, which were awarded in 2002 under the
Verizon Communications Broad-Based Incentive Plan. No new awards are permitted to be issued under this plan.      
         23   

Table of Contents  

Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence       
    Information with respect to transactions with related persons is incorporated by reference to the section
entitled  Related Person Transaction Policy  on pages 2-3 of Exhibit 99. Information with respect to Director independence, is incorporated by reference to the section entitled  Independence  on page 3 of Exhibit 99.   

Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services       
    Information with respect to principal accountant fees and services is incorporated by reference to the
section entitled  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on page 17 of Exhibit 99.       

PART
IV     
 
           Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules       
    (a) Documents filed as part of this report:   

Page   

(1)  
      
    Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
      
  *   

(2)  
      
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
      
  *   

(3)  
      
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statements   
      
  *   

Financial Statements covered by Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm:   

Consolidated Statements of Income   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income   
      
  *   

Consolidated Balance Sheets   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   
      
  *   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity   
      
  *   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
      
  *   

*  Incorporated herein by reference to the appropriate portions of the registrant s Annual Report
to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013. (See Part II.)   

(4)  
      
    Financial Statement Schedule   

II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     
      
  28   

(5)  
      
    Exhibits   

24   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number    
     
     Description     

3a(i)   
     
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) (filed as Exhibit 3a to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2005 and incorporated herein by reference).    

3a(ii)   
     
    Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Verizon, effective February 4, 2014.    

3b   
     
    Bylaws of Verizon, as amended, effective as of December 3, 2009 (filed as Exhibit 3b to Form 8-K dated December 7, 2009 and incorporated
herein by reference).    

4a   
     
    Indenture between Verizon, both individually and as successor in interest to Verizon Global Funding Corp., and U.S. Bank National Association, as
successor trustee to Wachovia Bank, National Association, formerly known as First Union National Bank, as Trustee, dated as of December 1, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Verizon Global Funding Corp. s Registration Statement on Form
S-4, Registration No. 333-64792, Exhibit 4.1).    

4b   
     
    First Supplemental Indenture between Verizon, both individually and as successor in interest to Verizon Global Funding Corp., and U.S. Bank National
Association, as successor trustee to Wachovia Bank, National Association, formerly known as First Union National Bank, as Trustee, dated as of May 15, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Verizon Global Funding Corp. s Registration Statement
on Form S-3, Registration No. 333-67412, Exhibit 4.2).    

4c   
     
    Second Supplemental Indenture between Verizon, both individually and as successor in interest to Verizon Global Funding Corp., and U.S. Bank National
Association, as successor trustee to Wachovia Bank, National Association, formerly known as First Union National Bank, as Trustee, dated as of September 29, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on February 9, 2006, Exhibit
4.1).    

4d   
     
    Third Supplemental Indenture between Verizon, both individually and as successor in interest to Verizon Global Funding Corp., and U.S. Bank National
Association, as successor trustee to Wachovia Bank, National Association, formerly known as First Union National Bank, as Trustee, dated as of September 29, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on February 9, 2006, Exhibit
4.2).    

Except for Exhibits 4a   4d above, no other instrument which defines the rights of holders of long-term debt of Verizon and its consolidated
subsidiaries is filed herewith pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A). Pursuant to this regulation, Verizon hereby agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.    

10a   
     
    GTE s Charitable Awards Program (filed as Exhibit 10-10 to GTE s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992, File No. 1-2755 and
incorporated herein by reference).**    

10b   
     
    NYNEX Directors  Charitable Award Program (filed as Exhibit 10i to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 and incorporated herein by
reference).**    

10c   
     
    2009 Verizon Long-Term Incentive Plan, As Amended and Restated (incorporated by reference to Appendix D of the Registrant s Proxy Statement
included in Schedule 14A filed on March 18, 2013).**    

10c(i)   
     
    Performance Stock Unit Agreement 2011-2013 Award Cycle (filed as Exhibit 10a to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011 and incorporated herein
by reference).**    

10c(ii)   
     
    Restricted Stock Unit Agreement 2011-2013 Award Cycle (filed as Exhibit 10b to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011 and incorporated herein
by reference).**    

10c(iii)   
     
    Form of 2011 Special Performance Stock Unit Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011 and incorporated by
reference).**    

10c(iv)   
     
    Performance Stock Unit Agreement 2012-2014 Award Cycle (filed as Exhibit 10a to Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2012 and incorporated herein
by reference).**    
 
         25   

Table of Contents  

26   

Table of Contents  

10p   
      
    U.S. Wireless Agreement, dated September 21, 1999, among Bell Atlantic and Vodafone Airtouch plc, including the forms of Amended and Restated
Partnership Agreement and the Investment Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference).    

10q   
      
    Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of October 1, 2013, among Verizon, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders
party thereto (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2013 and incorporated herein by reference).    

12   
      
    Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges filed herewith.    

13   
      
    Portions of Verizon s Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 filed herewith. Only the information
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K is included in the exhibit.    

21   
      
    List of principal subsidiaries of Verizon filed herewith.    

23   
      
    Consent of Ernst   Young LLP filed herewith.    

31.1   
      
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

31.2   
      
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

32.1   
      
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

32.2   
      
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 filed herewith.    

99   
      
    Selected Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Information included in the Preliminary Proxy Statement for the Verizon 2014 Annual Meeting
of Shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2014.    

101.INS   
      
    XBRL Instance Document.    

101.SCH   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.    

101.PRE   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document.    

101.CAL   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document.    

101.LAB   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document.    

101.DEF   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.    

**    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.    
 
         27   

Table of Contents  

      Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
   Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries       For the Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011       

(a)  
    Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable primarily includes amounts previously written off which were credited directly to this account when
recovered.          

(b)  
    Valuation Allowance for Deferred Tax Assets includes current year increase to valuation allowance charged to equity and reclassifications from other
balance sheet accounts.          

(c)  
    Amounts written off as uncollectible or transferred to other accounts or utilized.      

(d)  
    Reductions to valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets.      
         28   

Table of Contents  

Signatures    
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.  

By:  
     
  /s/    Anthony T. Skiadas  

Date:  February 27, 2014   

Anthony T. Skiadas  
          Senior Vice President and Controller   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Principal Executive Officer:   

/s/    Lowell C. McAdam             Lowell C. McAdam   
      
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
     
  February 27, 2014   

Principal Financial Officer:  

/s/    Francis J. Shammo             Francis J. Shammo   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
     
  February 27, 2014   

Principal Accounting Officer:  

/s/    Anthony T. Skiadas             Anthony T. Skiadas   
      
    Senior Vice President and Controller   
     
  February 27, 2014   
 
         29   

Table of Contents  

30   

<EX-3.A(II)>
 2
 d622994dex3aii.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.A(II)

Exhibit 3.A(ii) 

EXHIBIT 3a(ii)   
  CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT   
  OF      RESTATED CERTIFICATE
OF INCORPORATION      OF   
  VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.   
 Verizon Communications Inc. (the  Corporation ), a corporation organized on October 7, 1983, and existing under and by virtue
of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, HEREBY DOES CERTIFY:    FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation held on September 2, 2013, resolutions were duly adopted approving a proposed amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the  Certificate Amendment ) of the Corporation and recommending that the proposed
Certificate Amendment be approved by the stockholders of the Corporation. The Certificate Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit A.  
 SECOND: That, thereafter, pursuant resolution of the Corporation s Board of Directors, a special meeting of the stockholders was held on
January 28, 2014 upon notice and in accordance with the provisions of Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at which meeting a majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote thereon was voted in favor of
the Certificate Amendment as proposed by the Corporation s Board of Directors.    THIRD: That the Certificate Amendment was duly adopted
in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.    IN WITNESS
WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by William L. Horton, Jr., its Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, this 3rd day of February, 2014.  

VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC.   

By: 
     
 /s/ William L. Horton, Jr.  

William L. Horton, Jr. 
 Senior Vice President, Deputy 
 General Counsel and Corporate Secretary   

EXHIBIT A   
  CHARTER AMENDMENT     Article 4.A of the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read in full as follows:      

4. 
  Capital Stock       A.  Authorized Shares . The total number of shares of all classes of
stock which the Corporation shall have the authority to issue is 6,500,000,000 shares, of which 6,250,000,000 shares are Common Stock, $.10 par value per share, and 250,000,000 shares are Series Preferred Stock, $.10 par value per share.  

</EX-3.A(II)>

<EX-12>
 3
 d622994dex12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12 

EXHIBIT 12        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges        Verizon Communications
Inc. and Subsidiaries        

(1      )  
    
    We classify interest expense recognized on uncertain tax positions as income tax expense and therefore such interest expense is not included in the
Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 4
 d622994dex13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

Exhibit 13 

Exhibit 13    

Selected Financial
Data Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries     

Significant events affecting our historical earnings trends in 2011 through 2013 are described in  Other Items  in the
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  section.          

2010 and 2009 data includes severance, pension and benefit charges, merger integration and acquisition costs, dispositions and other items. 2010
data also includes Medicare Part D Subsidy charges.          

Stock Performance
Graph     
    Comparison of Five-Year Total Return Among Verizon,   
  S P 500 Telecommunications Services Index and S P 500 Stock Index   

The graph compares the
cumulative total returns of Verizon, the S P 500 Telecommunications Services Index, and the S P 500 Stock Index over a five-year period. It assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2008 with dividends (including the value of each
respective spin-off) being reinvested.   

Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     

Overview   
  
    Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon or the Company) is a holding company that, acting through its
subsidiaries is one of the world s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies with a presence in over 150 countries around the world. Our
offerings, designed to meet customers  demand for speed, mobility, security and control, include voice, data and video services on our wireless and wireline networks. We have two reportable segments, Wireless and Wireline. Our wireless
business, operating as Verizon Wireless, provides voice and data services and equipment sales across the United States using one of the most extensive and reliable wireless networks. Our wireline business provides consumer, business and government
customers with communications products and services, including broadband data and video services, network access, voice, long distance and other communications products and services, and also owns and operates one of the most expansive end-to-end
global Internet Protocol (IP) networks. We have a highly skilled, diverse and dedicated workforce of approximately 176,800 employees as of December 31, 2013.      In recent years, Verizon has embarked upon a strategic transformation as advances in technology have changed the ways that our customers interact in their personal and professional lives and that
businesses operate. To meet the changing needs of our customers and address the changing technological landscape, we are focusing our efforts around higher margin and growing areas of our business: wireless data, wireline data and Strategic
services, including cloud computing services.      Our strategy requires significant capital investments primarily to acquire
wireless spectrum, put the spectrum into service, invest in the fiber optic network that supports our wireless and wireline businesses, maintain our wireless and wireline networks and develop and maintain significant advanced database capacity.
     In our Wireless business, in 2013 compared to 2012, revenue growth of 6.8% was driven by connection growth and the demand for
smartphones, tablets and other Internet devices. During 2013, we experienced a 4.6% increase in retail postpaid connections compared to 2012, with smartphones representing 70% of our retail postpaid phone base at December 31, 2013 compared to
58% at December 31, 2012. Also, during 2013, postpaid smartphone activations represented 86% of phones activated compared to 77% in 2012.      We have substantially completed the deployment of our fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution (LTE) network. Our 4G LTE network is available to 97% of the U.S. population in more than 500 markets
covering approximately 305 million people, including those in areas served by our LTE in Rural America partners. Our 4G LTE network provides higher data throughput performance for data services at lower cost compared to those provided via
third-generation (3G) networks. In December 2013, 69% of our total data traffic was carried on our 4G LTE network.      On February 13, 2014, we introduced our More Everything      plans
which replaced our Share Everything      plans and provide more value to our customers. These plans, which are
available to both new and existing postpaid customers, feature domestic unlimited voice minutes, unlimited domestic and international text, video and picture messaging, cloud storage and a single data allowance that can be shared among up to 10
devices connected to the Verizon Wireless network. Customers with Verizon Edge, which provides a device payment plan option, also will receive discounted monthly access fees on More Everything plans. As of December 31, 2013, Share Everything
accounts represented approximately 46% of our retail postpaid accounts, compared to approximately 23% as of December 31, 2012. Verizon Wireless offers shared data plans for business, with the More Everything plans for Small Business and the
Nationwide Business Data Packages and Plans. In August 2013, we launched the new Verizon Edge device payment plan option which now allows customers to trade in their phone for a new phone after a minimum of thirty days, subject to certain
conditions.      On September 2, 2013, Verizon entered into a stock purchase agreement (the Stock Purchase Agreement) with
Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone) and Vodafone 4 Limited (Seller), pursuant to which Verizon agreed to acquire Vodafone s indirect 45% interest in Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless (the Partnership, and such interest, the Vodafone Interest)
for aggregate consideration of approximately $130 billion. On February 21, 2014, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement, Verizon acquired (the Wireless Transaction) from Seller all of the
issued and outstanding capital stock (the Transferred Shares) of Vodafone Americas Finance 1 Inc., a subsidiary of Seller (VF1 Inc.), which indirectly through certain subsidiaries (together with VF1 Inc., the Purchased Entities) owned the Vodafone
Interest. The consideration paid was primarily comprised of cash of approximately $58.89 billion and Verizon common stock with a value of approximately $60.15 billion. See  Acquisitions and Divestitures  for additional information.
     In Wireline, during 2013 compared to 2012, revenues were positively impacted by higher revenues in Consumer retail driven by
FiOS services. FiOS represented approximately 71% of Consumer retail revenue during 2013, compared to approximately 65% during 2012. As the penetration of FiOS products increases, we continue to seek ways to increase revenue and further realize
operating and capital efficiencies as well as maximize profitability. As more applications are developed for this high-speed service, we expect that FiOS will become a hub for managing multiple home services that will eventually be part of the
digital grid, including not just entertainment and communications, but also machine-to-machine communications, such as home monitoring, health monitoring, energy management and utilities management.   
  Also positively impacting Wireline s revenues during 2013 was a 4.6% increase in Strategic services revenues, which represented 57%
of total Global Enterprise revenues during 2013. However, total Global Enterprise and Global Wholesale revenues declined due to declines in Core customer premise equipment revenues and traditional voice revenues. The decline in Core customer premise
equipment revenues is a result of our focus on improving our margins by continuing to de-emphasize sales of equipment that are not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle. To compensate for the shrinking market for traditional voice service,
we continue to build our Wireline segment around data, video and advanced business services areas where demand for reliable high-speed connections is growing.   

We are investing in innovative technology like wireless networks, high-speed fiber and cloud
services to position ourselves at the center of the growth trends of the future. In addition to the Wireless Transaction, since the beginning of 2012 these investments have included acquisitions of wireless licenses of $4.9 billion. We also have
invested $1.4 billion in acquisitions of investments and businesses, which we expect will permit us to offer enhanced machine-to-machine, video and cloud-based products and services.   
  By investing in our own capabilities, we are also investing in the markets we serve by providing our communities with an efficient,
reliable infrastructure for competing in the information economy. We are committed to putting our customers first and being a responsible member of our communities. Guided by this commitment and by our core values of integrity, respect, performance
excellence and accountability, we believe we are well-positioned to produce a long-term return for our shareowners, create meaningful work for ourselves and provide something of lasting value for society.   
  In the sections that follow, we provide information about the important aspects of our operations and investments, both at the
consolidated and segment levels, and discuss our results of operations, financial position and sources and uses of cash. In addition, we highlight key trends and uncertainties to the extent practicable.   
    Trends        We expect
that competition will continue to intensify with traditional, non-traditional and emerging service providers seeking increased market share. We believe that our networks differentiate us from our competitors, enabling us to provide enhanced
communications experiences to our customers. We believe our focus on the fundamentals of running a good business, including operating excellence and financial discipline, gives us the ability to plan and manage through changing economic conditions.
We will continue to invest for growth, which we believe is the key to creating value for our shareowners.       Connection and Operating Trends
      In our Wireless segment, we expect to continue to attract and maintain the loyalty of high-quality retail postpaid
customers, capitalizing on demand for data services and bringing our customers new ways of using wireless services in their daily lives. We expect that future connection growth will continue as we introduce new smartphones, Internet devices such as
tablets and our suite of 4G LTE devices. We believe these devices will attract and retain higher value retail postpaid connections, contribute to continued increases in the penetration of data services and keep our device line-up competitive versus
other wireless carriers. We expect future growth opportunities will be dependent on expanding the penetration of our network services, offering innovative wireless devices for both consumer and business customers and increasing the number of ways
that our customers can connect with our network and services.      Service and equipment pricing play an important role in the
wireless competitive landscape. As the demand for wireless services continues to grow, wireless service providers are offering service plans that include unlimited voice minutes and text messages and a specific amount of data access in varying
megabyte or gigabyte sizes or, in some cases, unlimited data usage. Wireless service providers are also offering price plans that decouple service pricing from equipment pricing and blur the traditional boundary between prepaid and postpaid plans.
In addition, some wireless providers are offering a credit to new customers to reimburse early termination fees paid to their former wireless service provider, subject to certain limitations. We seek to compete in this area by offering our customers
services and equipment that they will regard as the best available value for the price, as well as service plans that meet their wireless service needs.      In our Wireline segment, we have experienced continuing access line losses as customers have disconnected both primary and secondary lines and switched to alternative technologies such as wireless, voice
over Internet protocol (VoIP) and cable for voice and data services. We expect to continue to experience access line losses as customers continue to switch to alternate technologies.   
  Despite this challenging environment, we expect that we will continue to grow key aspects of our Wireline segment by providing network
reliability, offering innovative product bundles that include broadband Internet access, digital television and local and long distance voice services, offering more robust IP products and service, and accelerating our cloud computing and
machine-to-machine strategies. We will also continue to focus on cost efficiencies to attempt to offset adverse impacts from unfavorable economic conditions and competitive pressures.   
      Operating Revenue    
  We expect to experience service revenue growth in our Wireless segment in 2014, primarily as a result of continued growth in postpaid
connections driven by increased sales of smartphones, tablets and other Internet devices. We expect that retail postpaid average revenue per account (ARPA) will continue to increase as connections migrate from basic phones to smartphones and from
our 3G network to our 4G LTE network, and as the average number of connections per account increases, which we expect to be driven by our More Everything plans that allow for the sharing of data among up to 10 devices. We expect that our future
service revenue growth will be substantially derived from an increase in the usage of innovative wireless smartphones, tablets and other Internet devices in addition to our pricing structure that will encourage customers to continue adding
data-enabled devices onto existing accounts. We expect that continued emphasis on increasing smartphone penetration, including continuing to migrate customers from basic phones to smartphones and from 3G devices to 4G LTE devices, will positively
impact our revenue.   

We expect FiOS broadband and video penetration to positively impact our Mass Markets revenue
and subscriber base. We also expect Strategic services revenues to continue to grow as we derive additional enterprise revenues from cloud, security and other solutions-based services and customers continue to migrate their services to Private IP
and other strategic networking services, although we have experienced decelerating revenue growth within our Strategic services business. We believe the trend in these growth areas as well as our offerings in telematics and video streaming will help
offset the continuing decline in revenues in our Wireline segment related to retail voice connection losses as a result of wireless substitution as well as the continued decline in our legacy wholesale and enterprise markets.   
   Operating Costs and Expenses       We anticipate our overall wireless operating costs will increase as a result of the expected increase in the volume of smartphone sales, which will result in higher equipment and sales commission costs.
In addition, we expect content costs for our FiOS video services to continue to increase. However, we expect to achieve certain cost efficiencies in 2014 and beyond as data traffic continues to migrate to our lower-cost 4G LTE network and as we
continue to streamline our business processes with a focus on improving productivity and increasing profitability.       Capital Expenditures
      Our 2014 capital program includes capital to fund advanced networks and services, including 4G LTE and FiOS, the continued
expansion of our core networks, including our IP and data center enhancements, maintenance and support for our legacy voice networks and other expenditures to drive operating efficiencies. The level and the timing of the Company s capital
expenditures within these broad categories can vary significantly as a result of a variety of factors outside our control, including, for example, material weather events. We are replacing copper wire with fiber-optic cable which will not alter our
capital program but should result in lower maintenance costs in the future. Capital expenditures were $16.6 billion in 2013 and $16.2 billion in 2012, respectively. We believe that we have significant discretion over the amount and timing of our
capital expenditures on a Company-wide basis as we are not subject to any agreement that would require significant capital expenditures on a designated schedule or upon the occurrence of designated events. We expect capital expenditures in 2014 to
be in the range of approximately $16.5 billion to $17.0 billion and we also expect our capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue to decline in 2014 from 2013 levels.       Cash Flow from Operations       We create value for our shareowners by investing
the cash flows generated by our business in opportunities and transactions that support continued profitable growth, thereby increasing customer satisfaction and usage of our products and services. In addition, we have used our cash flows to
maintain and grow our dividend payout to shareowners. Verizon s Board of Directors increased the Company s quarterly dividend by 2.9% during 2013, making this the seventh consecutive year in which we have raised our dividend. After the
closing of the Wireless Transaction, our Provision for income taxes is expected to increase due to our 100% ownership of Verizon Wireless. We also expect our cash taxes paid to increase due to our 100% ownership of Verizon Wireless, and to a much
lesser degree, due to bonus depreciation not being extended beyond December 31, 2013. Additionally, our Interest expense is expected to increase as a result of the debt issued to finance the Wireless Transaction. As a result of these factors,
we expect Cash Flows from Operations to be negatively impacted in 2014. Partially offsetting these negative impacts to Cash Flows from Operations will be the discontinuation of cash distributions from Verizon Wireless to Vodafone, which have
historically reduced our Cash Flows from Financing Activities.      Our goal is to use our cash to create long-term value for our
shareholders. We will continue to look for investment opportunities that will help us to grow the business. We expect to use our cash to reduce our debt levels, pay dividends to our shareholders and, when appropriate, buy back shares of our
outstanding common stock (see  Cash Flows from Financing Activities ) and invest in spectrum licenses (see  Cash Flows from Investing Activities ). During 2013, we purchased 3.50 million shares under our share buyback
authorization. There were no repurchases of common stock during 2012 or 2011.   

Consolidated Results
of Operations     
    In this section, we discuss our overall results of operations and highlight items of a non-operational
nature that are not included in our segment results. We have two reportable segments, Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. In  Segment Results of Operations, 
we review the performance of our two reportable segments.      Corporate, eliminations and other includes unallocated corporate
expenses such as certain pension and other employee benefit related costs, intersegment eliminations recorded in consolidation, the results of other businesses such as our investments in unconsolidated businesses, lease financing and other
adjustments and gains and losses that are not allocated in assessing segment performance due to their non-operational nature. Although such transactions are excluded from the business segment results, they are included in reported consolidated
earnings. Gains and losses that are not individually significant are included in all segment results as these items are included in the chief operating decision maker s assessment of segment performance. We believe that this presentation
assists users of our financial statements in better understanding our results of operations and trends from period to period.       

Consolidated Revenues    
     
     2013 Compared to 2012       The increase in consolidated revenues during 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to higher revenues at Wireless, as well as higher Mass Markets revenues driven by FiOS services and increased Strategic
services revenues within Global Enterprise at our Wireline segment. Partially offsetting these increases were lower Global Enterprise Core and Global Wholesale revenues at our Wireline segment.   
  Wireless  revenues increased $5.2 billion, or 6.8%, during 2013 compared to 2012 due to growth in service revenue. Service revenue
increased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue, which increased largely as a result of an increase in retail postpaid connections as well as the continued increase in penetration of smartphones,
tablets and other Internet devices through our Share Everything plans. Retail postpaid connection net additions decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to an increase in our retail postpaid connection churn rate, partially offset by an
increase in retail postpaid connection gross additions. Retail postpaid connections per account increased as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012 primarily due to the increased penetration of tablets and other Internet
devices.      Wireline s revenues decreased $0.6 billion, or 1.4%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily driven by declines
in Global Enterprise Core and Global Wholesale, partially offset by higher Mass Markets revenues driven by FiOS services and increased Strategic services revenues within Global Enterprise.   
  Mass Markets revenues increased $0.6 billion, or 3.7%, during 2013 compared to 2012 due to the expansion of FiOS services (Voice,
Internet and Video) as well as changes in our pricing strategies, partially offset by the continued decline of local exchange revenues.      
  Global Enterprise revenues decreased $0.6 billion, or 3.9%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a decline in Core customer
premise equipment revenues and lower voice services and data networking revenues. This decrease was partially offset by growth in Strategic services revenues, primarily due to an increase in advanced services, such as contact center solutions, IP
communications, and our cloud and data center offerings as well as revenue from a telematics services business that we acquired in the third quarter of 2012.   

Global Wholesale revenues decreased $0.5 billion, or 7.3%, during 2013 compared to 2012
primarily due to a decline in traditional voice revenues as a result of decreased minutes of use (MOUs) and a decline in domestic wholesale connections, partially offset by continuing demand for high-speed digital data services from
fiber-to-the-cell customers upgrading their core data circuits to Ethernet facilities as well as Ethernet migrations from other core customers.      Other revenues decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to reduced volumes outside of our network footprint.       2012 Compared to 2011       The increase in consolidated revenues during 2012
compared to 2011 was primarily due to higher revenues at Wireless, as well as higher Mass Markets revenues driven by FiOS services and increased Strategic services revenues within Global Enterprise at our Wireline segment. Partially offsetting these
increases were lower Global Wholesale and Global Enterprise Core revenues at our Wireline segment.      Wireless  revenues
increased during 2012 compared to 2011 due to growth in both service and equipment and other revenue. Service revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue, which increased largely as a
result of an increase in retail postpaid connections of 5.1 million in 2012, as well as the continued increase in penetration of smartphones. Retail postpaid connections per account increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the
increased use of tablets and other Internet devices. In 2012, the increase in retail postpaid connection net additions was primarily due to an increase in retail postpaid and prepaid connection gross additions and improvements in our retail
connections churn rate. Higher retail postpaid connection gross additions during 2012 primarily reflect the launch of our Share Everything plans coupled with new device introductions during the second half of 2012.   
  Equipment and other revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to an increase in device upgrade fees, regulatory fees
and equipment sales.      Wireline s revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by declines in Global
Wholesale, Global Enterprise Core and Other revenues, partially offset by higher revenues in Mass Markets driven by FiOS services and higher revenues from Strategic services.      Mass Markets revenues increased during 2012 compared to 2011 due to the expansion of FiOS services as well as changes in our pricing strategy adopted in 2012, partially offset by the continued decline of
local exchange revenues.      Global Enterprise revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower local
services and traditional circuit-based revenues, a decline in customer premise equipment revenues and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. This decrease was partially offset by higher Strategic services revenues, primarily due to
growth in advanced services, such as managed network solutions, contact center solutions, IP communications and our cloud and data center offerings.      Global Wholesale revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a decline in traditional voice revenues as a result of decreased MOUs and a decline in domestic wholesale connections,
partially offset by continuing demand for high-speed digital data services from fiber-to-the-cell customers upgrading their core data circuits to Ethernet facilities as well as Ethernet migrations from other core customers.   
  Other revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to reduced volumes outside of our network footprint.   

Consolidated Operating Expenses    
     
    Consolidated operating expenses decreased during 2013 primarily due to non-operational credits recorded
in 2013 as well as non-operational charges recorded in 2012 (see  Other Items ). Consolidated operating expenses increased during 2012 primarily due to higher non-operational charges (see  Other Items ) as well as increased
operating expenses at Wireless.       2013 Compared to 2012        Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales includes the
following costs directly attributable to a service or product: salaries and wages, benefits, materials and supplies, content costs, contracted services, network access and transport costs, wireless equipment costs, customer provisioning costs,
computer systems support, costs to support our outsourcing contracts and technical facilities and contributions to the Universal Service Fund. Aggregate customer care costs, which include billing and service provisioning, are allocated between Cost
of services and sales and Selling, general and administrative expense.      Cost of services and sales decreased during 2013
compared to 2012 primarily due to a decrease in cost of equipment sales, decreased data roaming, a decline in cost of data services and a decrease in network connection costs at our Wireless segment, as well as a decrease in costs related to
customer premise equipment, a decline in access costs and the net effect of storm-related insurance recoveries at our Wireline segment. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth
and vendor rate increases at our Wireline segment, as well as increases in cost of network services at our Wireless segment.       Selling,
General and Administrative Expense       Selling, general and administrative expense includes: salaries and wages and benefits
not directly attributable to a service or product; bad debt charges; taxes other than income taxes; advertising and sales commission costs; customer billing; call center and information technology costs; regulatory fees; professional service fees;
and rent and utilities for administrative space. Also included are a portion of the aggregate customer care costs as discussed in  Cost of Services and Sales  above.      Selling, general and administrative expense decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to the non-operational credits recorded in 2013 and declines in employee costs at our Wireline segment as
well as the non-operational charges recorded in 2012 (see  Other Items ). This decrease was partially offset by higher sales commission expense at our Wireless segment.       Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization
expense increased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to an increase in net depreciable assets at our Wireless segment and an increase in amortization expense at our Wireline segment. These increases were partially offset by a decline in net
depreciable assets at our Wireline segment.       2012 Compared to 2011        Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales increased during
2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher cost of equipment sales, increased cost of network services and increased data roaming, partially offset by a decrease in cost for data services, a decrease in network connection costs and a decrease in
the cost of long distance at our Wireless segment. Also contributing to the increase were higher content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth and vendor rate increases, increased expenses related to our cloud and data center
offering, higher costs related to FiOS installation as well as higher repair and maintenance expenses caused by storm-related events in 2012, partially offset by declines in access costs and customer premise equipment costs at our Wireline segment.

Selling, General and Administrative Expense    
  Selling, general and administrative expense increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher non-operational charges (see
 Other Items ) as well as higher sales commission expense and costs associated with regulatory fees at our Wireless segment.   
   Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a decrease in depreciable assets at our Wireline segment, partially offset by an increase in amortization
expense related to non-network software.       Non-operational (Credits) Charges    
  Non-operational (credits) charges included in operating expenses (see  Other Items ) were as follows:   
   
    See  Other Items  for a description of other non-operational items.   

Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA    
  Consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expenses (Consolidated EBITDA) and Consolidated Adjusted
EBITDA, which are presented below, are non-GAAP measures and do not purport to be alternatives to operating income as a measure of operating performance. Management believes that these measures are useful to investors and other users of our
financial information in evaluating operating profitability on a more variable cost basis as they exclude the depreciation and amortization expense related primarily to capital expenditures and acquisitions that occurred in prior years, as well as
in evaluating operating performance in relation to our competitors. Consolidated EBITDA is calculated by adding back interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense, equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses and other income and
(expense), net to net income.      Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by excluding the effect of non-operational items
from the calculation of Consolidated EBITDA. Management believes that this measure provides additional relevant and useful information to investors and other users of our financial data in evaluating the effectiveness of our operations and
underlying business trends in a manner that is consistent with management s evaluation of business performance. See  Other Items  for additional details regarding these non-operational items.   
  Operating expenses include pension and benefit related credits and/or charges based on actuarial assumptions, including projected
discount rates and an estimated return on plan assets. These estimates are updated in the fourth quarter to reflect actual return on plan assets and updated actuarial assumptions. The adjustment has been recognized in the income statement during the
fourth quarter or upon a remeasurement event pursuant to our accounting policy for the recognition of actuarial gains/losses.   
  It is management s intent to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance the understanding of Verizon s GAAP financial
information, and it should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Each non-GAAP financial measure is presented along with the corresponding GAAP measure so as not to
imply that more emphasis should be placed on the non-GAAP measure. The non-GAAP financial information presented may be determined or calculated differently by other companies.   
   
    The changes in Consolidated Operating Income, Consolidated EBITDA and Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA in the
table above were primarily a result of the factors described in connection with operating revenues and operating expenses.   

Other Consolidated Results    
     Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Businesses    
  Equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses decreased $182 million, or 56.2% in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to lower earnings
from operations at Vodafone Omnitel N.V. (Vodafone Omnitel). The decrease during 2013 was partially offset by an immaterial gain recorded by Verizon Wireless upon obtaining control of previously unconsolidated wireless partnerships, which were
previously accounted for under the equity method and are now consolidated.      Equity in earnings of unconsolidated businesses
decreased $120 million, or 27.0%, in 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower earnings from operations at Vodafone Omnitel and, to a lesser extent, the devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. dollar.   
  As part of the consideration of the Wireless Transaction, a subsidiary of Verizon sold its entire ownership interest in Vodafone Omnitel
to a subsidiary of Vodafone on February 21, 2014.       Other Income and (Expense), Net    
  Additional information relating to Other income and (expense), net is as follows:   
   
    nm   not meaningful      Other income and (expense), net decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to fees of $1.1 billion incurred in 2012 related to the early redemption of debt, partially offset by $0.2 billion of
fees incurred during the fourth quarter of 2013 as a result of the termination of a bridge credit agreement upon the effectiveness of a term loan agreement (see  Other Items ).   
  Other income and (expense), net increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by higher fees of $1.1 billion related to the
early redemption of debt (see  Other Items ).       Interest Expense    
   
    Total interest costs on debt balances increased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to the
issuance of $49.0 billion of fixed and floating rate notes to finance the Wireless Transaction (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ) resulting in an increase in average debt as well as an incremental increase in interest expense of $0.7
billion, partially offset by a lower effective interest rate (see  Consolidated Financial Condition ). Capitalized interest costs were higher in 2013 primarily due to increases in wireless licenses that are currently under development.
     Total interest costs on debt balances decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a $2.7 billion decrease in
average debt (see  Consolidated Financial Condition ) and a lower effective interest rate. Capitalized interest costs were lower in 2012 primarily due to our ongoing deployment of the 4G LTE network.   

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes    
   
    nm   not meaningful   
  The effective income tax rate is calculated by dividing the provision for income taxes by income before the provision for income taxes.
Our effective income tax rate is significantly lower than the statutory federal income tax rate for all years presented due to the inclusion of income attributable to Vodafone s noncontrolling interest in the Verizon Wireless partnership within
our income before the provision for income taxes. In 2013 and 2011, we recorded a tax provision on income before the provision for income taxes and when we included the income attributable to Vodafone s noncontrolling interest in the Verizon
Wireless partnership in our income before the provision for income taxes it resulted in our effective income tax rate being 13.7 percentage points lower during 2013 and 7.9 percentage points lower during 2011. In 2012, we recorded a tax benefit on
income before the provision for income taxes, which resulted in a negative effective income tax rate. In this circumstance, including the income attributable to Vodafone s noncontrolling interest in the Verizon Wireless partnership in our
income before the provision for income taxes resulted in our negative effective tax rate being 300.3 percentage points higher during 2012.      Verizon completed the acquisition of Vodafone s 45% indirect ownership interest in Verizon Wireless on February 21, 2014. Our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate subsequent
to the closing will reflect the change in Verizon s ownership interest in Verizon Wireless. Our provision for income taxes and effective income tax rate will increase subsequent to the closing due to the inclusion of the provision for income
taxes previously attributable to Vodafone s ownership interest.      The effective income tax rate for 2013 was 19.6%
compared to (6.7)% for 2012. The increase in the effective income tax rate and provision for income taxes was primarily due to higher income before income taxes as a result of severance, pension and benefit credits recorded during 2013 compared to
lower income before income taxes as a result of severance, pension and benefit charges as well as early debt redemption costs recorded during 2012.      The effective income tax rate for 2012 was (6.7)% compared to 2.7% for 2011. The negative effective income tax rate for 2012 and the decrease in the provision for income taxes during 2012 compared to 2011
was primarily due to lower income before income taxes as a result of higher severance, pension, and benefit charges as well as early debt redemption costs recorded during 2012.   
  A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the effective income tax rate for each period is included in Note 12 to the
consolidated financial statements.       Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests    
   
    The increases in Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests during 2013 compared to 2012 and
2012 compared to 2011 were due to higher earnings in our Verizon Wireless segment, which had a 45% noncontrolling partnership interest attributable to Vodafone as of December 31, 2013.   
  We expect Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests to decline substantially in 2014 as a result of the Wireless Transaction
(see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ). The noncontrolling interests that remained after the completion of the Wireless Transaction primarily relate to wireless partnerships.   

Segment Results of
Operations     
    We have two reportable segments, Wireless and Wireline, which we operate and manage as strategic business
units and organize by products and services. We measure and evaluate our reportable segments based on segment operating income. The use of segment operating income is consistent with the chief operating decision maker s assessment of segment
performance.      Segment earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Segment EBITDA), which is presented
below, is a non-GAAP measure and does not purport to be an alternative to operating income as a measure of operating performance. Management believes that this measure is useful to investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating
operating profitability on a more variable cost basis as it excludes the depreciation and amortization expenses related primarily to capital expenditures and acquisitions that occurred in prior years, as well as in evaluating operating performance
in relation to our competitors. Segment EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortization expense to segment operating income.      Wireless Segment EBITDA service margin, also presented below, is calculated by dividing Wireless Segment EBITDA by Wireless service revenues. Wireless Segment EBITDA service margin utilizes service
revenues rather than total revenues. Service revenues primarily exclude equipment revenues in order to reflect the impact of providing service to the wireless customer base on an ongoing basis. Wireline EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing
Wireline EBITDA by total Wireline revenues. You can find additional information about our segments in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.   

Wireless    
    Our Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless.
Cellco Partnership is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the combination of the U.S. wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone. Verizon Wireless provides wireless communications services across one of the most extensive wireless
networks in the United States. As of December 31, 2013, Verizon owned a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owned the remaining 45%. On February 21, 2014, the Wireless Transaction was completed, and Verizon acquired
100% ownership of Verizon Wireless.      We provide these services and equipment sales to consumer, business and government
customers in the United States on a postpaid and prepaid basis. Postpaid connections represent individual lines of service for which a customer is billed in advance a monthly access charge in return for a monthly network service allowance, and usage
beyond the allowance is billed monthly in arrears. Our prepaid service enables individuals to obtain wireless services without a long-term contract or credit verification by paying for all services in advance.   
  All financial results included in the tables below reflect the consolidated results of Verizon Wireless.   
   Operating Revenues and Selected Operating Statistics        

(1)      
    As of end of period      

(2)      
    Excluding acquisitions and adjustments          2013 Compared to 2012       The increase in Wireless  total operating
revenues of $5.2 billion, or 6.8%, during 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily the result of growth in service revenue.      
   Accounts and Connections    
  Retail (non-wholesale) postpaid accounts represent retail customers under contract with Verizon Wireless that are directly served and
managed by Verizon Wireless and use its branded services. Accounts include Share Everything plans and corporate accounts, as well as legacy single connection plans and family plans. A single account may receive monthly wireless services for a
variety of connected devices. Retail connections represent our retail customer device connections. Churn is the rate at which service to connections is terminated.      Retail connections under an account may include smartphones, basic phones, tablets and other Internet devices, as well as Home Phone Connect and Home Fusion. We expect to continue to experience retail
connection growth based on the strength of our product offerings and network service quality.   

Retail postpaid connection net additions decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to an increase in our retail postpaid connection churn rate, partially offset by an increase in
retail postpaid connection gross additions.       Retail Postpaid Connections per Account    
  Retail postpaid connections per account is calculated by dividing the total number of retail postpaid connections by the number of retail
postpaid accounts as of the end of the period. Retail postpaid connections per account increased 4.5% as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012 primarily due to the increased penetration of tablets and other Internet devices.
      Service Revenue       Service revenue increased $5.3 billion, or 8.3%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue, which increased largely as a result of an increase in retail
postpaid connections as well as the continued increase in penetration of smartphones, tablets and other Internet devices through our Share Everything plans. The penetration of smartphones was driven by the activation of smartphones by new customers
as well as existing customers migrating from basic phones to smartphones.      The increase in retail postpaid ARPA (the average
revenue per account from retail postpaid accounts) during 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily driven by increases in smartphone penetration and retail postpaid connections per account. As of December 31, 2013, we experienced a 4.5% increase in
retail postpaid connections per account compared to 2012, with smartphones representing 70% of our retail postpaid phone base as of December 31, 2013 compared to 58% as of December 31, 2012. The increased penetration in retail postpaid
connections per account is primarily due to increases in Internet data devices, which represented 10.7% of our retail postpaid connection base as of December 31, 2013 compared to 9.3% as of December 31, 2012, primarily due to activations
of tablets and other Internet devices. Additionally, during 2013, postpaid smartphone activations represented 86% of phones activated compared to 77% during 2012.      Other service revenue increased during 2013 compared to 2012 due to growth in wholesale connections, partially offset by a decrease in revenue related to third party roaming.   
   Equipment and Other Revenue       Equipment and other revenue decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 as a decline in regulatory fees was partially offset by an increase in revenue related to upgrade fees.   
   2012 Compared to 2011    
  The increase in Wireless  total operating revenues during 2012 compared to 2011 was the result of growth in both service and
equipment and other revenue.       Accounts and Connections       Retail connection net additions increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to an increase in retail postpaid and prepaid connection gross additions and improvements in our retail connections
churn rate. Higher retail postpaid connection gross additions during 2012 primarily reflected the launch of our Share Everything plans coupled with new device introductions during the second half of 2012.   
   Retail Postpaid Connections per Account       Retail postpaid connections per account increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the increased use of tablets and other Internet devices.   
   Service Revenue       Service
revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily driven by higher retail postpaid service revenue, which increased largely as a result of an increase in retail postpaid connections of 5.1 million in 2012, as well as the continued
increase in penetration of smartphones. This increased penetration also contributed to the increase in our retail postpaid ARPA.      
  The increase in retail postpaid ARPA during 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily driven by increases in smartphone
penetration and retail postpaid connections per account. During 2012, we experienced a 4.3% increase in retail postpaid connections per account compared to 2011, with smartphones representing 58% of our retail postpaid phone base as of
December 31, 2012 compared to 43.5% as of December 31, 2011. The increase in retail postpaid connections per account was primarily due to increases in Internet data devices, which represented 9.3% of our retail postpaid connection base as
of December 31, 2012 compared to 8.1% as of December 31, 2011 primarily due to strong sales of tablets and
Jetpacks   TM   .   
  Other service revenue decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily as a result of a decrease in third party roaming revenue.

Equipment and Other Revenue       Equipment and other revenue increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to increases in device upgrade fees, regulatory fees and equipment sales.   
   Operating Expenses        
     Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a decrease in cost of equipment sales of $0.4 billion, which was partially due to a decline in postpaid upgrades,
decreased data roaming, a decline in cost of data services and a decrease in network connection costs due to the deployment of Ethernet backhaul facilities primarily targeted at sites upgrading to 4G LTE, partially offset by an increase in cost of
network services.      Cost of services and sales increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to $0.7 billion in higher
cost of equipment sales, which was driven by increased sales of higher cost smartphones, increased cost of network services and increased data roaming, partially offset by a decrease in cost for data services, a decrease in network connection costs
due to the ongoing deployment of Ethernet backhaul facilities primarily targeted at sites upgrading to 4G LTE and a decrease in the cost of long distance.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling, general and
administrative expense increased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to higher sales commission expense in our indirect channel. Indirect sales commission expense increased $1.1 billion during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily as a result of
increases in indirect gross additions and upgrades, as well as the average commission per unit, as the mix of units continues to shift toward smartphones and more customers activate data services.   
  Selling, general and administrative expense increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to higher sales commission expense in
our indirect channel as well as costs associated with regulatory fees. Indirect sales commission expense increased $1.3 billion during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily as a result of increases in the average commission per unit, as the mix of units
continued to shift toward smartphones and more customers activated data services.       Depreciation and Amortization Expense    
  The increase in depreciation and amortization expense during 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily driven by an increase in net depreciable
assets. Depreciation and amortization expense was essentially unchanged during 2012 compared to 2011.   

Segment Operating Income and EBITDA    
   
    The changes in the table above during the periods presented were primarily a result of the factors
described in connection with operating revenues and operating expenses.      Non-recurring or non-operational items excluded from
Wireless  Operating income were as follows:       

Wireline    
    Our Wireline segment provides voice, data and video communications products and enhanced services
including broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services, security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the United
States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world.   
   Operating Revenues and Selected Operating Statistics        
       (1)    As of end of period      Wireline s revenues decreased $0.6 billion, or 1.4%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily driven by declines in Global Enterprise Core and Global Wholesale, partially offset by higher Consumer
retail revenues driven by FiOS services and increased Strategic services revenues within Global Enterprise.       Mass Markets    
  Mass Markets operations provide broadband services (including high-speed Internet, FiOS Internet and FiOS Video services), local exchange
(basic service and end-user access) and long distance (including regional toll) voice services to residential and small business subscribers.   
   2013 Compared to 2012    
  Mass Markets revenues increased $0.6 billion, or 3.7%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to the expansion of FiOS services
(Voice, Internet and Video) as well as changes in our pricing strategies, partially offset by the continued decline of local exchange revenues.      During 2013, we grew our subscriber base by 0.6 million FiOS Internet subscribers and by 0.5 million FiOS Video subscribers, while also consistently improving penetration rates within our FiOS
service areas. As of December 31, 2013, we achieved penetration rates of 39.5% and 35.0% for FiOS Internet and FiOS Video, respectively, compared to penetration rates of 37.3% and 33.3% for FiOS Internet and FiOS Video, respectively, at
December 31, 2012.         The increase in Mass
Markets revenues, driven by FiOS services, was partially offset by the decline of local exchange revenues primarily due to a 5.2% decline in Consumer retail voice connections resulting primarily from competition and technology substitution with
wireless, VoIP, broadband and cable services. Total voice connections include traditional switched access lines in service as well as FiOS digital voice connections. There was also a decline in Small business retail voice connections, primarily
reflecting competition and a shift to both IP and high-speed circuits.       2012 Compared to 2011    
  Mass Markets revenues increased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to the expansion of FiOS services (Voice, Internet and Video)
as well as changes in our pricing strategy adopted in 2012, partially offset by the continued decline of local exchange revenues.   

We continued to grow our subscriber base and improved penetration rates within our FiOS
service areas during 2012. Also contributing to the increase in revenue from FiOS services were changes in our pricing strategy adopted in 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we achieved penetration rates of 37.3% and 33.3% for FiOS Internet and
FiOS Video, respectively, compared to penetration rates of 35.5% and 31.5% for FiOS Internet and FiOS Video, respectively, at December 31, 2011.      Mass Markets revenues were negatively impacted by the decline of local exchange revenues primarily due to a 6.1% decline in Consumer retail voice connections resulting primarily from competition and
technology substitution with wireless, VoIP, broadband and cable services. Total voice connections include traditional switched access lines in service as well as FiOS digital voice connections. There was also a decline in Small business retail
voice connections, primarily reflecting challenging economic conditions, competition and a shift to both IP and high-speed circuits.   
   Global Enterprise    
  Global Enterprise offers Strategic services including network products and solutions, advanced communications services, and other core
communications services to medium and large business customers, multinational corporations and state and federal government customers.   
   2013 Compared to 2012    
  Global Enterprise revenues decreased $0.6 billion, or 3.9%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a $0.5 billion, or 27.1%,
decline in Core customer premise equipment revenues as well as lower voice services and data networking revenues, which consist of traditional circuit-based services such as frame relay, private line and Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) services.
These core services declined in 2013 compared to 2012 as our customer base continued to migrate to next generation IP services. The decline in customer premise equipment revenues reflected our focus on improving margins by continuing to de-emphasize
sales of equipment that are not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle. The decline is also due to lower revenue from public sector customers. This decrease was partially offset by growth in Strategic services revenues, which increased $0.4
billion, or 4.6%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to growth in advanced services, such as contact center solutions, IP communications and our cloud and data center offerings, as well as revenue from a telematics services business that we
acquired in the third quarter of 2012.       2012 Compared to 2011       Global Enterprise revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower local services and traditional circuit-based revenues, a decline in customer premise equipment revenues and the
unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation. Core services declined compared to the similar period in 2011 as our customer base continued to migrate to next generation IP services. The decline in customer premise equipment revenues reflected
our focus on improving margins by continuing to de-emphasize sales of equipment that are not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle. This decrease was partially offset by higher Strategic services revenues. Strategic services revenues
increased primarily due to growth in advanced services, such as managed network solutions, contact center solutions, IP communications and our cloud and data center offerings.       Global Wholesale       Global Wholesale provides communications services
including data, voice and local dial tone and broadband services primarily to local, long distance and other carriers that use our facilities to provide services to their customers.       2013 Compared to 2012       Global Wholesale revenues decreased $0.5 billion, or
7.3%, during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a decline in traditional voice revenues as a result of decreased MOUs and a 5.2% decline in domestic wholesale connections. The traditional voice product reductions are primarily due to competitors
de-emphasizing their local market initiatives coupled with the effect of technology substitution. Also contributing to the decline in voice revenues is the continuing contraction of market rates due to competition. Partially offsetting the overall
decrease in wholesale revenue was a continuing demand for high-speed digital data services from fiber-to-the-cell customers upgrading their core data circuits to Ethernet facilities as well as Ethernet migrations from other core customers. As a
result of the customer upgrades, the number of core data circuits experienced an 11.3% decline compared to the similar period in 2012.      
   2012 Compared to 2011    
  Global Wholesale revenues decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to a decline in traditional voice revenues as a result of
decreased MOUs and a 5.3% decline in domestic wholesale connections. The traditional voice product reductions are primarily due to the continued impact of competitors de-emphasizing their local market initiatives coupled with the impact of
technology substitution. Also contributing to the decline in voice revenues is the elimination of low margin international products and the continuing contraction of market rates due to competition. Partially offsetting the overall decrease in
wholesale revenue was a continuing demand for high-speed digital data services from fiber-to-the-cell customers upgrading their core data circuits to Ethernet facilities as well as Ethernet migrations from other core customers. As a result of the
customer upgrades, the number of core data circuits experienced a 9.6% decline compared to the similar period in 2011. We expect Global Wholesale revenue to continue to decline approximately 10% per quarter compared to the similar period in
2011, as we believe that the continued decline in core products will only be partially offset by growth in Ethernet and IP services.   

Other       Other revenues include such services as local exchange and long distance services outside of our network footprint and operator services which are no longer being marketed. The decrease in revenues from
other services during 2013 and 2012 was primarily due to reduced volumes outside of our network footprint.       Operating Expenses
       
     Cost of Services and Sales       Cost of services and sales decreased during 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to a decrease in costs related to customer premise equipment which reflected our focus on improving margins by
de-emphasizing sales of equipment that are not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle, a decline in access costs resulting primarily from declines in overall wholesale long distance volumes and the net effect of storm-related insurance
recoveries. These decreases were partially offset by higher content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth and vendor rate increases.      Cost of services and sales increased during 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to higher content costs associated with continued FiOS subscriber growth and vendor rate increases and increased expenses
related to our cloud and data center offerings. Cost of services and sales was also impacted by higher costs related to FiOS installation, as well as higher repair and maintenance expenses caused by storm-related events in 2012 compared to 2011. The
increases were partially offset by a decline in access costs primarily from management actions to reduce exposure to unprofitable international wholesale routes and declines in overall wholesale long distance volumes. Costs related to customer
premise equipment also decreased, which reflected our focus on improving margins by de-emphasizing sales of equipment that are not part of an overall enterprise solutions bundle.       Selling, General and Administrative Expense       Selling, general and
administrative expense decreased during 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to declines in employee costs, primarily as a result of reduced headcount, and declines in rent expenses, partially offset by higher transaction and property tax expenses.
     Selling, general and administrative expense decreased during 2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to lower allocations related
to centralized administrative functions, and to a lesser extent, lower property and transaction tax expenses and employee costs.   
   Depreciation and Amortization Expense       Depreciation and amortization expense decreased during 2013 compared to 2012, as well as 2012 compared to 2011, due to decreases in net depreciable assets, partially offset by an increase in amortization
expense related to non-network software.   

Segment Operating Income and EBITDA    
   
    nm   not meaningful      The changes in Wireline s Operating income, Segment EBITDA and Segment EBITDA margin during the periods presented were primarily a result of the factors described in connection with operating
revenues and operating expenses.      During 2012, $0.1 billion of non-recurring or non-operational items were excluded from
Wireline s Operating income.   

Other
Items          

Gain on Spectrum License Transaction     
  During the third quarter of 2013, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless sold 39 lower 700 MHz B block
spectrum licenses to AT T in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion and the transfer by AT T to Verizon Wireless of AWS (10 MHz) licenses in certain markets in the western United States. Verizon Wireless also sold certain lower 700 MHz B
block spectrum licenses to an investment firm for a payment of $0.2 billion. As a result, we received $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value and we recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $0.3 billion in Selling, general and administrative
expense on our consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2013.      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA
non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the gain on the spectrum license transaction described above.   

Wireless Transaction Costs     
  During 2013, as a result of the Wireless Transaction, we recorded costs of $0.9 billion primarily for interest expense of $0.7 billion
related to the issuance of the new notes, as well as $0.2 billion in fees primarily in connection with the bridge credit agreement (see  Consolidated Financial Condition ).   

Severance, Pension and Benefit (Credits) Charges     
  During 2013, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits credits of approximately $6.2 billion primarily for our pension and
postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The credits were primarily driven by an increase in our discount rate assumption used to determine the current
year liabilities from a weighted-average of 4.2% at December 31, 2012 to a weighted-average of 5.0% at December 31, 2013 ($4.3 billion), lower than assumed retiree medical costs and other assumption adjustments ($1.4 billion) and the
difference between our estimated return on assets of 7.5% at December 31, 2012 and our actual return on assets of 8.6% at December 31, 2013 ($0.5 billion).      During 2012, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of approximately $7.2 billion primarily for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to
recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges were primarily driven by a decrease in our discount rate assumption used to determine the current year liabilities from a weighted-average of 5% at December 31,
2011 to a weighted-average of 4.2% at December 31, 2012 ($5.3 billion) and revisions to the retirement assumptions for participants and other assumption adjustments, partially offset by the difference between our estimated return on assets of
7.5% and our actual return on assets of 10% ($0.7 billion). As part of this charge, we also recorded $1.0 billion related to the annuitization of pension liabilities (see  Employee Benefit Plan Funded Status and Contributions ) as well as
severance charges of $0.4 billion primarily for approximately 4,000 management employees.      During 2011, we recorded net
pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of approximately $6.0 billion for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges were
primarily driven by a decrease in our discount rate assumption used to determine the current year liabilities from 5.75% at December 31, 2010 to 5% at December 31, 2011 ($5.0 billion); the difference between our estimated return on assets
of 8% and our actual return on assets of 5% ($0.9 billion); and revisions to the life expectancy of participants and other adjustments to assumptions.      The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See  Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the severance, pension
and benefit (credits) charges presented above.       

Early Debt Redemption and Other Costs     
  During November 2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.8 billion in connection with the purchase of $0.9 billion of the $1.25
billion of 8.95% Verizon Communications Notes due 2039 in a cash tender offer.         During December 2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.3 billion in connection with the early redemption of $0.7 billion of the $2.0 billion of 8.75% Verizon Communications Notes due 2018, $1.0
billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series A, due March 2013 and $0.75 billion of 4.35% Verizon Communications Notes due February 2013, as well as $0.3 billion of other costs.   
  During November 2011, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.1 billion in connection with the early redemption of $1.0 billion of 7.375%
Verizon Communications Notes due September 2012, $0.6 billion of 6.875% Verizon Communications Notes due June 2012, $0.4 billion of 6.125% Verizon Florida Inc. Debentures due January 2013, $0.5 billion of 6.125% Verizon Maryland Inc. Debentures due
March 2012 and $1.0 billion of 6.875% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures due April 2012.   

Litigation Settlements     
  In the third quarter of 2012, we settled a number of patent litigation matters, including cases with ActiveVideo Networks Inc.
(ActiveVideo) and TiVo Inc. (TiVo). In connection with the settlements with ActiveVideo and TiVo, we recorded a charge of $0.4 billion in the third quarter of 2012 and will pay and recognize over the following six years an additional $0.2 billion.
     The Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA non-GAAP measure presented in the Consolidated Operating Income and EBITDA discussion (See
 Consolidated Results of Operations ) excludes the litigation settlement costs presented above.       

Consolidated
Financial Condition          
    We use the net cash generated from our operations to fund network expansion and modernization, repay
external financing, pay dividends, repurchase Verizon common stock from time to time and invest in new businesses. Our sources of funds, primarily from operations and, to the extent necessary, from external financing arrangements, are sufficient to
meet ongoing operating and investing requirements. The cash portion of the purchase price for the Wireless Transaction was primarily funded by the incurrence of third-party indebtedness, including the issuance of $49.0 billion aggregate principal
amount of fixed and floating rate notes and other indebtedness (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ). We expect that our capital spending requirements will continue to be financed primarily through internally generated funds. Debt or
equity financing may be needed to fund additional investments or development activities or to maintain an appropriate capital structure to ensure our financial flexibility. Our cash and cash equivalents are primarily held domestically in diversified
accounts and are invested to maintain principal and liquidity. Accordingly, we do not have significant exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.      The volatility in world debt and equity markets has not had a significant effect on our ability to access external financing. Our available external financing arrangements include credit available under
credit facilities and other bank lines of credit, vendor financing arrangements, issuances of registered debt or equity securities and privately-placed capital market securities. We may also issue short-term debt through an active commercial paper
program and have a $6.2 billion credit facility to support such commercial paper issuances. In addition, during 2013, we entered into a $2.0 billion 364-day revolving credit agreement.   

Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities     
  Our primary source of funds continues to be cash generated from operations, primarily from our Wireless segment. Net cash provided by
operating activities during 2013 increased by $7.3 billion compared to 2012 primarily due to higher consolidated earnings, lower pension contributions and improved working capital levels. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in
2013 was partially offset by net distributions of $0.3 billion received from Vodafone Omnitel in 2012.      Net cash provided by
operating activities during 2012 increased by $1.7 billion compared to 2011 primarily due to higher consolidated earnings, as well as improved working capital levels, due to timing differences, partially offset by an increase in pension
contributions. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2012 and 2011 included net distributions received from Vodafone Omnitel of $0.3 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively.   

Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities     
   Capital Expenditures    
  Capital expenditures continue to be our primary use of capital resources as they facilitate the introduction of new products and services,
enhance responsiveness to competitive challenges and increase the operating efficiency and productivity of our networks.   

Capital expenditures, including capitalized software, were as follows:   
   
    Capital expenditures increased at Wireless in 2013 compared to 2012 in order to substantially complete
the build-out of our 4G LTE network. Capital expenditures declined at Wireline as a result of decreased legacy spending requirements and a decline in spending on our FiOS network.   
  Capital expenditures declined slightly at Wireless in 2012 compared to 2011 due to the decreased investment in the capacity of our
wireless EV-DO network, partially offset by the increased build-out of our 4G LTE network. Capital expenditures declined slightly at Wireline due to lower legacy spending requirements.       Acquisitions       During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we invested $0.6 billion, $4.3
billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, in acquisitions of wireless licenses. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we also invested $0.5 billion, $0.9 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, in acquisitions of investments and businesses, net of cash
acquired.      During the fourth quarter of 2013, Verizon acquired an industry leader in content delivery networks for $0.4
billion. We expect the acquisition will increase our ability to meet the growing demand for online digital media content. Additionally, we acquired a technology and television cloud company for cash consideration that was not significant. In
February 2014, Verizon acquired a business dedicated to the development of cloud television products and services for cash consideration that was not significant.      During 2012, we paid approximately $4.3 billion to acquire wireless licenses primarily to meet future LTE capacity needs and enable LTE expansion. Additionally, during 2012, we acquired HUGHES Telematics,
a provider of telematics services, for $0.6 billion. See  Acquisitions and Divestitures  for additional details.   
  During April 2011, we paid approximately $1.4 billion for the equity of Terremark, which was partially offset by $0.1 billion of cash
acquired (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ) .  See  Cash Flows From Financing Activities  regarding the debt obligations of Terremark that were repaid during May 2011. In addition, during 2011, we acquired various
wireless licenses and markets as well as a provider of cloud software technology for cash consideration that was not significant.   
   Dispositions       During
2013, we completed the sale of 700 MHz lower B block spectrum licenses and as a result, we received proceeds of $2.1 billion. Additionally, on January 6, 2014, we announced agreements with T-Mobile USA, Inc. (T-Mobile USA) pursuant to which we
will dispose of our remaining 700 MHz A block spectrum licenses, and as a result of these agreements we expect to receive cash consideration of approximately $2.4 billion and additional spectrum. See  Acquisitions and Divestitures  for
additional information.      During 2012, we received $0.4 billion related to the sale of some of our 700 MHz lower A and B block
spectrum licenses. We acquired these licenses as part of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Auction 73 in 2008.       Other, net
      During 2011, Other, net primarily included proceeds related to the sales of long-term investments, which were not
significant to our consolidated statements of income.       

Cash Flows Provided by (Used In) Financing Activities     
  We seek to maintain a mix of fixed and variable rate debt to lower borrowing costs within reasonable risk parameters and to protect
against earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from changes in market conditions. During 2013, 2012 and 2011, net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $26.5 billion, $(21.3) billion and $(5.8) billion, respectively.   

2013       During March 2013, we issued $0.5 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate Notes due 2015 in a private placement resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $0.5 billion, net of discounts and
issuance costs. The proceeds were used for the repayment of commercial paper.      During April 2013, $1.25 billion of 5.25%
Verizon Communications Notes matured and were repaid. During May 2013, $0.1 billion of 7.0% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. During June 2013, $0.5 billion of 4.375% Verizon Communications Notes and $0.1 billion of 7.0%
Verizon New York Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. In addition, during June 2013, we redeemed $0.25 billion of 7.15% Verizon Maryland LLC Debentures due May 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures.
     During September 2013, in connection with the Wireless Transaction, we issued $49.0 billion aggregate principal amount of
fixed and floating rate notes resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $48.7 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The issuances consisted of the following: $2.25 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate Notes due 2016 that
bear interest at a rate equal to three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 1.53% which rate will be reset quarterly, $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate Notes due 2018 that bear interest at a rate equal to
three-month LIBOR plus 1.75% which rate will be reset quarterly, $4.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Notes due 2016, $4.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.65% Notes due 2018, $4.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.50%
Notes due 2020, $11.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.15% Notes due 2023, $6.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.40% Notes due 2033 and $15.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.55% Notes due 2043 (collectively, the new notes). The
proceeds of the new notes were used to finance, in part, the Wireless Transaction and to pay related fees and expenses. As a result of the issuance of the new notes, we incurred interest expense related to the Wireless Transaction of $0.7 billion
during 2013.      During October 2013, $0.3 billion of 4.75% Verizon New England Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid.
     During November 2013, $1.25 billion of 7.375% Verizon Wireless Notes and $0.2 billion of 6.5% Verizon Wireless Notes matured
and were repaid. During November 2013, Verizon Wireless redeemed $3.5 billion of 5.55% Notes due February 1, 2014 at a redemption price of 101% of the principal amount of the notes and $0.3 billion of 6.70% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures due
November 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures. Any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of redemption.      During December 2013, we redeemed $0.2 billion of 7.0% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures due December 2033 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures and $20 million of 7.0%
Verizon Delaware LLC Debentures due December 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures. Any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of redemption.   
  In addition, during 2013 we utilized $0.2 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.   
  During February 2014, we issued  1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Notes due 2022,  1.25 billion aggregate
principal amount of 3.25% Notes due 2026 and  0.85 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.75% Notes due 2034. The issuance of these Notes resulted in cash proceeds of approximately $5.4 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The net
proceeds were used, in part, to finance the Wireless Transaction. Any net proceeds not used to finance the Wireless Transaction will be used for general corporate purposes. Also, during February 2014, we issued $0.5 billion aggregate principal
amount of 5.9% Retail Notes due 2054 resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $0.5 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.       Verizon Notes       During February 2014, in connection with the Wireless
Transaction, we issued $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes. The Verizon Notes were issued in two separate series, with $2.5 billion due February 21, 2022 and $2.5 billion due February 21, 2025. The Verizon Notes bear
interest at a floating rate, which will be reset quarterly, with interest payable quarterly in arrears, beginning May 21, 2014 (see  Acquisitions and Divestitures ). The eight-year Verizon notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to
three-month LIBOR, plus 1.222%, and the eleven-year Verizon notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR, plus 1.372%.      
   Term Loan Agreement    
  During October 2013, we entered into a term loan agreement with a group of major financial institutions pursuant to which we drew $6.6
billion in February 2014 to finance, in part, the Wireless Transaction and to pay transaction costs. Half of any loans under the term loan agreement have a maturity of three years and the other half have a maturity of five years (the 5-Year Loans).
The 5-Year Loans provide for the partial amortization of principal during the last two years that they are outstanding. Loans under the term loan agreement bear interest at floating rates. The term loan agreement contains certain negative covenants,
including a negative pledge covenant, a merger or similar transaction covenant and an accounting changes covenant, affirmative covenants and events of default that are customary for companies maintaining an investment grade credit rating. In
addition, the term loan agreement requires us to maintain a leverage ratio (as defined in the term loan agreement) not in excess of 3.50:1.00, until our credit ratings reach a certain level.   

Bridge Credit Agreement       During September 2013, we entered into a $61.0 billion bridge credit agreement with a group of major financial institutions. The credit agreement provided us with the ability to borrow up to $61.0 billion
to finance, in part, the Wireless Transaction and to pay related transaction costs. Following the September 2013 issuance of notes, borrowing availability under the bridge credit agreement was reduced to $12.0 billion. Following the effectiveness of
the term loan agreement in October 2013, the bridge credit agreement was terminated in accordance with its terms and as such, the related fees of $0.2 billion were recognized in Other income and (expense), net during the fourth quarter of 2013.
      2012       During
January 2012, $1.0 billion of 5.875% Verizon New Jersey Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. During February 2012, $0.8 billion of 5.25% Verizon Wireless Notes matured and were repaid. During July 2012, $0.8 billion of 7.0% Verizon Wireless
Notes matured and were repaid. In addition, during 2012 we utilized $0.2 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.   
  On November 2, 2012, we announced the commencement of a tender offer (the Tender Offer) to purchase for cash any and all of the
outstanding $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.95% Verizon Communications Notes due 2039. In the Tender Offer that was completed November 9, 2012, $0.9 billion aggregate principal amount of the notes was purchased and $0.35 billion
principal amount of the notes remained outstanding. Any accrued and unpaid interest on the principal purchased was paid to the date of purchase.      During November 2012, we issued $4.5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed rate notes at varying maturities resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $4.47 billion, net of discounts and issuance
costs. The net proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, for the Tender Offer, and to redeem $0.7 billion of $2.0 billion of 8.75% Verizon Communications Notes due 2018, $1.0 billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series A due
2013 and $0.75 billion of 4.35% Verizon Communications Notes due 2013.      In addition, during 2012, various fixed rate notes
totaling approximately $0.2 billion were repaid and any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of payment.      See
 Other Items  regarding the early debt redemption costs incurred in connection with the aforementioned repurchases and redemptions.   
   2011       During 2011,
proceeds from long-term borrowings totaled $11.1 billion, which was primarily used to repay outstanding debt, redeem higher interest bearing debt maturing in the near term and for other general corporate purposes.   
  During 2011, $0.5 billion of 5.35% Verizon Communications Notes matured and were repaid, and we utilized $0.3 billion under fixed rate
vendor financing facilities.      During March 2011, we issued $6.25 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed and floating rate
notes at varying maturities resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $6.19 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The net proceeds were used for the repayment of commercial paper and other general corporate purposes, as well as to redeem
$2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of telephone subsidiary debt during April 2011.      The debt obligations of Terremark
that were outstanding at the time of its acquisition by Verizon were repaid during the second quarter of 2011.      During
November 2011, we issued $4.6 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed rate notes at varying maturities resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $4.55 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. During November 2011, the net proceeds were
used to redeem $1.6 billion aggregate principal amount of Verizon Communications notes and $1.9 billion aggregate principal amount of telephone subsidiary debt. The remaining net proceeds were used for the repayment of commercial paper and other
general corporate purposes. See  Other Items  regarding the early debt redemption costs incurred in connection with the aforementioned redemptions.      
  During December 2011, we repaid $0.9 billion upon maturity for the  0.7 billion of 7.625% Verizon Wireless Notes, and the related
cross currency swap was settled. During May 2011, $4.0 billion Verizon Wireless two-year fixed and floating rate notes matured and were repaid.   
   Special Distributions    
  In May 2013, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its owners, which was paid in the second quarter
of 2013 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $7.0 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $3.15 billion and the remainder of the distribution was received by Verizon.

In November 2012, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution
to its owners, which was paid in the fourth quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $8.5 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $3.8 billion and the remainder of
the distribution was received by Verizon.      In July 2011, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a
distribution to its owners, which was paid in the first quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $10 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $4.5 billion and the
remainder of the distribution was received by Verizon.       Other, net    
  The change in Other, net financing activities during 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily driven by higher distributions to Vodafone, which
owned a 45% noncontrolling interest in Verizon Wireless as of December 31, 2013. The change in Other, net financing activities during 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily driven by higher distributions to Vodafone, and higher early debt
redemption costs (see  Other Items ).       Dividends       The Verizon Board of Directors determines the appropriateness of the level of our dividend payments on a periodic basis by considering such factors as long-term growth opportunities, internal cash
requirements and the expectations of our shareowners. During the third quarter of 2013, the Board increased our quarterly dividend payment 2.9% to $.53 per share from $.515 per share in the same period of 2012. This is the seventh consecutive year
that Verizon s Board of Directors has approved a quarterly dividend increase. During the third quarter of 2012, the Board increased our quarterly dividend payment 3.0% to $.515 per share from $.50 per share in the same period of 2011. During
the third quarter of 2011, the Board increased our quarterly dividend payment 2.6% to $.50 per share from $.4875 per share in the same period of 2010.      During 2013, we paid $5.9 billion in dividends compared to $5.2 billion in 2012 and $5.6 billion in 2011. As in prior periods, dividend payments were a significant use of capital resources. While the
dividends declared per common share increased in 2012 compared to 2011, the total amount of cash dividends paid decreased during 2012 compared to the prior year as a portion of the dividends was satisfied through the issuance of common shares from
Treasury stock (see  Common Stock ).       Credit Facilities    
  On August 13, 2013, we amended our $6.2 billion credit facility with a group of major financial institutions to extend the maturity
date to August 12, 2017. As of December 31, 2013, the unused borrowing capacity under this credit facility was approximately $6.1 billion. The credit facility does not require us to comply with financial covenants or maintain specified
credit ratings, and it permits us to borrow even if our business has incurred a material adverse change. We use the credit facility to support the issuance of commercial paper, for the issuance of letters of credit and for general corporate
purposes.      During October 2013, we entered into a $2.0 billion 364-day revolving credit agreement with a group of major
financial institutions. Although effective as of October 2013, we could not draw on this revolving credit agreement prior to the completion of the Wireless Transaction. We may use borrowings under the 364-day credit agreement for general corporate
purposes. The 364-day revolving credit agreement contains certain negative covenants, including a negative pledge covenant, a merger or similar transaction covenant and an accounting changes covenant, affirmative covenants and events of default that
are customary for companies maintaining an investment grade credit rating. In addition, this agreement requires us to maintain a leverage ratio (as defined in the agreement) not in excess of 3.50:1.00, until our credit ratings reach a certain level.
      Common Stock    
  Common stock has been used from time to time to satisfy some of the funding requirements of employee and shareowner plans, including
24.6 million common shares issued from Treasury stock during 2012, related to dividend payments, which had an aggregate value of $1.0 billion. On February 3, 2011, the Board of Directors replaced the previously authorized share buyback
program with a new program for the repurchase of up to 100 million common shares terminating no later than the close of business on February 28, 2014. The Board also determined that no additional shares were to be purchased under the prior
program. During 2013, we repurchased $0.2 billion of our common stock under this program. There were no repurchases of common stock during 2012 or 2011.      As a result of the Wireless Transaction, Verizon issued approximately 1.27 billion shares.      
   Credit Ratings       During
the third quarter of 2013, Verizon s credit ratings were downgraded by Moody s Investors Service (Moody s), Standard   Poor s Ratings Services (Standard   Poor s) and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) as a result of
Verizon s announcement of the agreement to acquire Vodafone s 45% noncontrolling interest in Verizon Wireless for approximately $130 billion including the incurrence of third-party indebtedness to fund the cash portion of the purchase
price for the Wireless Transaction. Moody s downgraded Verizon s long-term debt ratings one notch from A3 to Baa1, while Standard   Poor s lowered its corporate credit rating and senior unsecured debt rating one notch from A-
to BBB+ and Fitch lowered its long-term issuer default rating and senior unsecured debt rating one notch from A to A-.   

Although the ratings downgrade is not expected to significantly impact our access to
capital, it could increase both the cost of refinancing debt and the cost of financing any new capital requirements. Securities ratings assigned by rating organizations are expressions of opinion and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold
securities. A securities rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.       Covenants       Our credit agreements contain covenants that are typical for
large, investment grade companies. These covenants include requirements to pay interest and principal in a timely fashion, pay taxes, maintain insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies, preserve our corporate existence, keep
appropriate books and records of financial transactions, maintain our properties, provide financial and other reports to our lenders, limit pledging and disposition of assets and mergers and consolidations, and other similar covenants. Additionally,
the term loan credit agreement and the 364-day revolving credit agreement require us to maintain a leverage ratio (as such term is defined in those agreements) not in excess of 3.50:1.00 until our credit ratings are equal to or higher than A3 and
A-.      We and our consolidated subsidiaries are in compliance with all debt covenants.   

Increase (Decrease) In Cash and Cash Equivalents     
  Our Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2013 totaled $53.5 billion, a $50.4 billion increase compared to Cash and cash
equivalents at December 31, 2012 primarily as a result of the issuance of $49.0 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed and floating rate notes.      Our Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2012 totaled $3.1 billion, a $10.3 billion decrease compared to Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011 as a result of the factors described
in connection with our cash flows provided by operating activities, cash flows used in investing activities and cash flows used in financing activities.       Free Cash Flow       Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that
management believes is useful to investors and other users of Verizon s financial information in evaluating cash available to pay debt and dividends. Free cash flow is calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from net cash provided by
operating activities. The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to Free cash flow:       
    The changes in free cash flow during 2013, 2012 and 2011 were a result of the factors described in
connection with net cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures.       

Employee Benefit Plan Funded Status and Contributions     
   Pension Annuitization       On
October 17, 2012, we, along with our subsidiary Verizon Investment Management Corp., and Fiduciary Counselors Inc., as independent fiduciary of the Verizon Management Pension Plan (the Plan), entered into a definitive purchase agreement with
The Prudential Insurance Company of America (Prudential) and Prudential Financial, Inc., pursuant to which the Plan would purchase a single premium group annuity contract from Prudential.   
     On December 10, 2012, upon issuance of the group annuity
contract by Prudential, Prudential irrevocably assumed the obligation to make future annuity payments to approximately 41,000 Verizon management retirees who began receiving pension payments from the Plan prior to January 1, 2010. The amount of
each retiree s annuity payment equals the amount of such individual s pension benefit. In addition, the group annuity contract is intended to replicate the same rights to future payments, such as survivor benefits, that are currently
offered by the Plan.      We contributed approximately $2.6 billion to the Plan between September 1, 2012 and
December 31, 2012 in connection with the transaction so that the Plan s funding percentage would not decrease as a result of the transaction.   

Employer Contributions       We operate numerous qualified and nonqualified pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans. These plans primarily relate to our domestic business units. During 2013, contributions to our
qualified pension plans were not material. During 2012 and 2011, we contributed $0.9 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively, to our qualified pension plans, excluding the pension annuitization discussed above. We also contributed $0.1 billion, $0.2
billion and $0.1 billion to our nonqualified pension plans in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.      In an effort to reduce the
risk of our portfolio strategy and better align assets with liabilities, we have adopted a liability driven pension strategy that seeks to better match cash flows from investments with projected benefit payments. We expect that the strategy will
reduce the likelihood that assets will decline at a time when liabilities increase (referred to as liability hedging), with the goal to reduce the risk of underfunding to the plan and its participants and beneficiaries, however, we also expect the
strategy to result in lower asset returns. Based on this strategy and the funded status of the plans at December 31, 2013, we expect the minimum required qualified pension plan contribution in 2014 to be $1.2 billion. Nonqualified pension
contributions are estimated to be approximately $0.2 billion in 2014.      Contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans
generally relate to payments for benefits on an as-incurred basis since the other postretirement benefit plans do not have funding requirements similar to the pension plans. We contributed $1.4 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion to our other
postretirement benefit plans in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Contributions to our other postretirement benefit plans are estimated to be approximately $1.4 billion in 2014.   

Leasing Arrangements     
  We are the lessor in leveraged and direct financing lease agreements for commercial aircraft and power generating facilities, which
comprise the majority of our leasing portfolio along with telecommunications equipment, commercial real estate property and other equipment. These leases have remaining terms of up to 37 years as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we lease
space on certain of our cell towers to other wireless carriers. Minimum lease payments receivable represent unpaid rentals, less principal and interest on third-party nonrecourse debt relating to leveraged lease transactions. Since we have no
general liability for this debt, which is secured by a senior security interest in the leased equipment and rentals, the related principal and interest have been offset against the minimum lease payments receivable in accordance with U.S. GAAP. All
recourse debt is reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.   

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations    
     Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments    
  The following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at December 31, 2013. Additional
detail about these items is included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.       

(1)      
    Items included in long-term debt with variable coupon rates are described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

(2)      
    See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.      

(3)      
    The purchase obligations reflected above are primarily commitments to purchase handsets and peripherals, equipment, software, programming and
network services, and marketing activities, which will be used or sold in the ordinary course of business. These amounts do not represent our entire anticipated purchases in the future, but represent only those items that are the subject of
contractual obligations. We also purchase products and services as needed with no firm commitment. For this reason, the amounts presented in this table alone do not provide a reliable indicator of our expected future cash outflows or
changes in our expected cash position (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements).          

(4)      
    Other long-term liabilities include estimated postretirement benefit and qualified pension plan contributions (see Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements).         We are not able to make a reliable estimate of when the unrecognized
tax benefits balance of $2.1 billion and related interest and penalties will be settled with the respective taxing authorities until issues or examinations are further developed (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements).   

Guarantees    
    In connection with the execution of agreements for the sale of businesses and investments, Verizon
ordinarily provides representations and warranties to the purchasers pertaining to a variety of nonfinancial matters, such as ownership of the securities being sold, as well as financial losses (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements).
     We guarantee the debentures and first mortgage bonds of our operating telephone company subsidiaries. As of December 31,
2013, $3.1 billion principal amount of these obligations remain outstanding. Each guarantee will remain in place for the life of the obligation unless terminated pursuant to its terms, which will occur, among other things, if the operating telephone
company is no longer a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon.      We also guarantee the debt obligations of GTE Corporation that
were issued and outstanding prior to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2013, $1.7 billion principal amount of these obligations remained outstanding (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements).   
  As of December 31, 2013 letters of credit totaling approximately $0.1 billion, which were executed in the normal course of business
and support several financing arrangements and payment obligations to third parties, were outstanding (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements).   

Market
Risk         We are exposed to various types of market risk in the normal course of business, including the
impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes in investment, equity and commodity prices and changes in corporate tax rates. We employ risk management strategies, which may include the use of a variety of
derivatives including cross currency swaps, foreign currency and prepaid forwards and collars, interest rate swap agreements, commodity swap and forward agreements and interest rate locks. We do not hold derivatives for trading purposes.   
  It is our general policy to enter into interest rate, foreign currency and other derivative transactions only to the extent necessary to
achieve our desired objectives in limiting our exposure to various market risks. Our objectives include maintaining a mix of fixed and variable rate debt to lower borrowing costs within reasonable risk parameters and to protect against earnings and
cash flow volatility resulting from changes in market conditions. We do not hedge our market risk exposure in a manner that would completely eliminate the effect of changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates on our earnings. We do not
expect that our net income, liquidity and cash flows will be materially affected by these risk management strategies.       

Interest Rate Risk    
    We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt and the portion of long-term
debt that carries floating interest rates. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 92% of the aggregate principal amount of our total debt portfolio consisted of fixed rate indebtedness, including the effect of interest rate swap agreements
designated as hedges. The impact of a 100 basis point change in interest rates affecting our floating rate debt would result in a change in annual interest expense, including our interest rate swap agreements that are designated as hedges, of
approximately $0.1 billion. The interest rates on our existing long-term debt obligations are unaffected by changes to our credit ratings.      The table that follows summarizes the fair values of our long-term debt, including current maturities, and interest rate swap derivatives as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. The table also provides a
sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of these financial instruments assuming 100-basis-point upward and downward shifts in the yield curve. Our sensitivity analysis does not include the fair values of our commercial paper and bank
loans, if any, because they are not significantly affected by changes in market interest rates.       
     Interest Rate Swaps       We have entered into domestic interest rate swaps to achieve a targeted mix of fixed and variable rate debt. We principally receive fixed rates and pay variable rates based on LIBOR, resulting in a net
increase or decrease to Interest expense. These swaps are designated as fair value hedges and hedge against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. We record the interest rate swaps at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets as assets
and liabilities.      During 2012, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $5.8 billion were settled. As a result of the
settlements, we received net proceeds of $0.7 billion, including accrued interest which is included in Other, net operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The fair value basis adjustment to the underlying debt instruments
was recognized into earnings as a reduction of Interest expense over the remaining lives of the underlying debt obligations. During the second quarter of 2013, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.25 billion matured and the impact to our
consolidated financial statements was not material. During the third quarter of 2013, we entered into interest rate swaps with a total notional value of $1.8 billion. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of these interest rate swaps
was not material. At December 31, 2013, the total notional amount of these interest rate swaps was $1.8 billion. The ineffective portion of these interest rate swaps was not material at December 31, 2013.   
   Forward Interest Rate Swaps       In order to manage our exposure to future interest rate changes, during the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into forward interest rate swaps with a notional value of $2.0 billion. We designated these
contracts as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these contracts was not material at December 31, 2013.   

Foreign Currency Translation    
    The functional currency for our foreign operations is primarily the local currency. The translation of
income statement and balance sheet amounts of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars is recorded as cumulative translation adjustments, which are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheets. Gains and
losses on foreign currency transactions are recorded in the consolidated statements of income in Other income and (expense), net. At December 31, 2013, our primary translation exposure was to the British Pound Sterling, the Euro, the
Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen.       Cross Currency Swaps       Verizon Wireless previously entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange approximately $1.6 billion of British Pound Sterling and Euro-denominated debt into U.S.
dollars and to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars, as well as to mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. A portion of the gains and losses recognized in Other comprehensive income was
reclassified to Other income and (expense), net to offset the related pre-tax foreign currency transaction gain or loss on the underlying debt obligations. The fair value of the outstanding swaps was not material at December 31, 2013 or
December 31, 2012. During 2013 and 2012 the gains with respect to these swaps were not material.      During February 2014,
we entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange approximately $5.4 billion of Euro and British Pound Sterling denominated debt into U.S. dollars and to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S.
dollars, as well as to mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses.       

Critical Accounting
Estimates and Recent Accounting Standards     

Critical Accounting Estimates    
    A summary of the critical accounting estimates used in preparing our financial statements is as follows:   

Wireless licenses and Goodwill are a significant component of our consolidated assets. Both our wireless licenses and goodwill are treated as
indefinite-lived intangible assets and, therefore are not amortized, but rather are tested for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter, unless there are events or changes in circumstances during an interim period that indicate these assets
may not be recoverable. We believe our estimates and assumptions are reasonable and represent appropriate marketplace considerations as of the valuation date. We do not believe that reasonably likely adverse changes in our assumptions and estimates
would result in an impairment charge as of our latest impairment testing date. However, if there is a substantial and sustained adverse decline in our operating profitability, we may have impairment charges in future years. Any such impairment
charge could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.          Wireless Licenses
      The carrying value of our wireless licenses was approximately $75.7 billion as of December 31, 2013.
We aggregate our wireless licenses into one single unit of accounting, as we utilize our wireless licenses on an integrated basis as part of our nationwide wireless network. Our wireless licenses provide us with the exclusive right to utilize
certain radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless communication services. There are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of our wireless licenses. In 2013, we performed a
qualitative impairment assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our wireless licenses was less than the carrying amount. As part of our assessment we considered several qualitative factors including the
business enterprise value of Wireless, macroeconomic conditions (including changes in interest rates and discount rates), industry and market considerations (including industry revenue and EBITDA margin projections), the projected financial
performance of Wireless, as well as other factors. Based on our assessment in 2013, we qualitatively concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of our wireless licenses significantly exceeded their carrying value and therefore,
did not result in an impairment.      In 2012 and 2011, our quantitative impairment test consisted of comparing
the estimated fair value of our wireless licenses to the aggregated carrying amount as of the test date. If the estimated fair value of our wireless licenses was less than the aggregated carrying amount of the wireless licenses then an impairment
charge would have been recognized. Our annual quantitative impairment tests for 2012 and 2011 indicated that the fair value significantly exceeded the carrying value and, therefore, did not result in an impairment.   
  In 2012 and 2011, using a quantitative assessment, we estimated the fair value of our wireless licenses using a direct
income based valuation approach. This approach uses a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate what a marketplace participant would be willing to pay to purchase the aggregated wireless licenses as of the valuation date. As a result we were
required to make significant estimates about future cash flows specifically associated with our wireless licenses, an appropriate discount rate based on the risk associated with those estimated cash flows and assumed terminal value and growth rates.
We considered current and expected future economic conditions, current and expected availability of wireless network technology and infrastructure and related equipment and the costs thereof as well as other relevant factors in estimating future
cash flows. The discount rate represented our estimate of the weighted-average cost of capital (WACC), or expected return, that a marketplace participant would have required as of the valuation date. We developed the discount rate based on our
consideration of the cost of debt and equity of a group of guideline companies as of the valuation date. Accordingly, our discount rate incorporated our estimate of the expected return a marketplace participant would have required as of the
valuation date, including the risk premium associated with the current and expected economic conditions as of the valuation date. The terminal value growth rate represented our estimate of the marketplace s long-term growth rate.   

Goodwill    
  At December 31, 2013, the balance of our goodwill was approximately $24.6 billion, of which $18.4 billion was in our
Wireless segment and $6.2 billion was in our Wireline segment. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires the determination of fair value of each respective reporting unit. Our operating segments, Wireless and Wireline, are deemed to be
our reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing. The fair value of Wireless significantly exceeded its carrying value and the fair value of Wireline exceeded its carrying value. Accordingly, our annual impairment tests for 2013, 2012
and 2011 did not result in an impairment.      The fair value of the reporting unit is calculated using a market
approach and a discounted cash flow method. The market approach includes the use of comparative multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. The discounted cash flow method is based on the present value of two components projected
cash flows and a terminal value. The terminal value represents the expected normalized future cash flows of the reporting unit beyond the cash flows from the discrete projection period. The fair value of the reporting unit is calculated based on the
sum of the present value of the cash flows from the discrete period and the present value of the terminal value. The estimated cash flows are discounted using a rate that represents our WACC.   

We maintain benefit plans for most of our employees, including, for certain employees, pension and other postretirement benefit plans. At
December 31, 2013, in the aggregate, pension plan benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets, which will result in higher future pension plan expense. Other postretirement benefit plans have larger benefit obligations
than plan assets, resulting in expense. Significant benefit plan assumptions, including the discount rate used, the long-term rate of return on plan assets and health care trend rates are periodically updated and impact the amount of benefit plan
income, expense, assets and obligations. A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these assumptions on the benefit obligations and expense (income) recorded, as well as on the funded status due to an increase or a decrease in the actual
versus expected return on plan assets as of December 31, 2013 and for the year then ended pertaining to Verizon s pension and postretirement benefit plans is provided in the table below.      

*  
    In determining its pension and other postretirement obligation, the Company used a weighted-average discount rate of 5.0%. The rate was selected to
approximate the composite interest rates available on a selection of high-quality bonds available in the market at December 31, 2013. The bonds selected had maturities that coincided with the time periods during which benefits payments are
expected to occur, were non-callable and available in sufficient quantities to ensure marketability (at least $0.3 billion par outstanding).          

Our current and deferred income taxes, and associated valuation allowances, are impacted by events and transactions arising in the normal course of
business as well as in connection with the adoption of new accounting standards, changes in tax laws and rates, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and non-recurring items. As a global commercial enterprise, our income tax rate and the
classification of income taxes can be affected by many factors, including estimates of the timing and realization of deferred income tax assets and the timing and amount of income tax payments. We account for tax benefits taken or expected to be
taken in our tax returns in accordance with the accounting standard relating to the uncertainty in income taxes, which requires the use of a two-step approach for recognizing and measuring tax benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.
We review and adjust our liability for unrecognized tax benefits based on our best judgment given the facts, circumstances, and information available at each reporting date. To the extent that the final outcome of these tax positions is different
than the amounts recorded, such differences may impact income tax expense and actual tax payments. We recognize any interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Actual tax payments may materially differ
from estimated liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws as well as unanticipated transactions impacting related income tax balances.      

Our Plant, property and equipment balance represents a significant component of our consolidated assets. We record plant, property and
equipment at cost. We depreciate plant, property and equipment on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets. We expect that a one-year increase in estimated useful lives of our plant, property and equipment would result
in a decrease to our 2013 depreciation expense of $1.8 billion and that a one-year decrease would result in an increase of approximately $2.1 billion in our 2013 depreciation expense.      

Recent Accounting Standards    
    In July 2013, the accounting standard update relating to the presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit
when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists was issued. The standard update provides that a liability related to an unrecognized tax benefit should be offset against same jurisdiction deferred tax
assets for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward if such settlement is required or expected in the event the uncertain tax position is disallowed. We will adopt this standard update during the first
quarter of 2014. We are currently evaluating the consolidated balance sheet impact related to this standard update.       

Acquisitions and
Divestitures     
      Wireless         Wireless Transaction       On September 2, 2013, Verizon entered into a
stock purchase agreement (the Stock Purchase Agreement) with Vodafone and Vodafone 4 Limited (Seller), pursuant to which Verizon agreed to acquire Vodafone s indirect 45% interest in Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon Wireless (the Partnership,
and such interest, the Vodafone Interest) for aggregate consideration of approximately $130 billion.      On February 21,
2014, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement, Verizon acquired (the Wireless Transaction) from Seller all of the issued and outstanding capital stock (the Transferred Shares) of Vodafone
Americas Finance 1 Inc., a subsidiary of Seller (VF1 Inc.), which indirectly through certain subsidiaries (together with VF1 Inc., the Purchased Entities) owned the Vodafone Interest. In consideration for the Transferred Shares, upon completion of
the Wireless Transaction, Verizon (i) paid approximately $58.89 billion in cash, (ii) issued approximately $60.15 billion of Verizon s common stock, par value $0.10 per share (the Stock Consideration), (iii) issued senior
unsecured Verizon notes in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion (the Verizon Notes), (iv) sold Verizon s indirectly owned 23.1% interest in Vodafone Omnitel N.V. (Omnitel, and such interest, the Omnitel Interest), valued at $3.5
billion and (v) provided other consideration of approximately $2.5 billion. As a result of the Wireless Transaction, Verizon issued approximately 1.27 billion shares. The total cash paid to Vodafone and the other costs of the Wireless
Transaction, including financing, legal and bank fees, were financed through the incurrence of third-party indebtedness (see  Consolidated Financial Condition ).      In accordance with the accounting standard on consolidation, a change in a parent s ownership interest while the parent retains a controlling financial interest in its subsidiary is accounted for as
an equity transaction and remeasurement of assets and liabilities of previously controlled and consolidated subsidiaries is not permitted. As a result, we will account for the Wireless Transaction by adjusting the carrying amount of the
noncontrolling interest to reflect the change in Verizon s ownership interest in Verizon Wireless. Any difference between the fair value of the consideration paid and the amount by which the noncontrolling interest is adjusted will be
recognized in equity attributable to Verizon.       Omnitel Transaction    
  On February 21, 2014, Verizon and Vodafone also implemented the sale of the Omnitel Interest (the Omnitel Transaction) by a
subsidiary of Verizon to a subsidiary of Vodafone in connection with the Wireless Transaction pursuant to a separate share purchase agreement. We will recognize a gain on the disposal of the Omnitel interest in the first quarter of 2014.   
   Verizon Notes       The
Verizon Notes were issued pursuant to Verizon s existing indenture. The Verizon Notes were issued in two separate series, with $2.5 billion due February 21, 2022 and $2.5 billion due February 21, 2025. The Verizon Notes bear interest at a
floating rate, which will be reset quarterly, with interest payable quarterly in arrears, beginning May 21, 2014. The eight-year Verizon notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR, plus 1.222%, and the eleven-year Verizon
notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR, plus 1.372%. The indenture that governs the Verizon Notes contains certain negative covenants, including a negative pledge covenant and a merger or similar transaction covenant,
affirmative covenants and events of default that are customary for companies maintaining an investment grade credit rating. An event of default for either series of the Verizon Notes may result in acceleration of the entire principal amount of all
debt securities of that series. Beginning two years after the   

closing of the Wireless Transaction, Verizon may redeem all or any portion of the outstanding Verizon Notes held by Vodafone or any of its affiliates for a redemption price of 100% of the
principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Verizon Notes may only be transferred by Vodafone to third parties in specified amounts during specified periods, commencing January 1, 2017. The Verizon Notes held by third parties will
not be redeemable. Verizon has agreed to file a registration statement with respect to the Verizon Notes at least three months prior to the Verizon Notes becoming transferable.       Other Consideration       Included in the other consideration paid to Vodafone
is the indirect assumption of long-term obligations with respect to 5.143% Class D and Class E cumulative preferred stock issued by one of the Purchased Entities. Both the Class D (825,000 shares outstanding) and Class E shares (825,000 shares
outstanding) are mandatorily redeemable in April 2020 at $1,000 per share plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. Dividends accrue at 5.143% per annum and will be treated as interest expense. Both the Class D and Class E shares will be
classified as liability instruments and will be recorded at fair value as determined at the closing of the Wireless Transaction.       Spectrum
License Transactions       Since 2012, we have entered into several strategic spectrum transactions including:   

During the third quarter of 2012, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless completed the following previously announced
transactions in which we acquired wireless spectrum that will be used to deploy additional 4G LTE capacity:          

Verizon Wireless acquired AWS spectrum in separate transactions with SpectrumCo and Cox TMI Wireless, LLC for which it paid an aggregate of $3.9
billion at the time of the closings. Verizon Wireless has also recorded a liability of $0.4 billion related to a three-year service obligation to SpectrumCo s members pursuant to commercial agreements executed concurrently with the
SpectrumCo transaction.          

Verizon Wireless completed license purchase and exchange transactions with Leap Wireless, Savary Island Wireless, which is majority owned by Leap
Wireless, and a subsidiary of T-Mobile USA. As a result of these transactions, Verizon Wireless received an aggregate $2.6 billion of AWS and PCS licenses at fair value and net cash proceeds of $0.2 billion, transferred certain AWS licenses to
T-Mobile USA and a 700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license to Leap Wireless, and recorded an immaterial gain.          

During the first quarter of 2013, we completed license exchange transactions with T-Mobile License LLC and Cricket License Company, LLC, a
subsidiary of Leap Wireless, to exchange certain Advanced Wireless Services (AWS) licenses. These non-cash exchanges include a number of intra-market swaps that we expect will enable Verizon Wireless to make more efficient use of the AWS band. As a
result of these exchanges, we received an aggregate $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value and recorded an immaterial gain.          

During the third quarter of 2013, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless sold 39 lower 700 MHz B block spectrum
licenses to AT T in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion and the transfer by AT T to Verizon Wireless of AWS (10 MHz) licenses in certain markets in the western United States. Verizon Wireless also sold certain lower 700 MHz B block
spectrum licenses to an investment firm for a payment of $0.2 billion. As a result, we received $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value and we recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $0.3 billion in Selling, general and administrative expense on
our consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2013.          

During the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into license exchange agreements with T-Mobile USA to exchange certain AWS and PCS licenses. These
non-cash exchanges, which are subject to approval by the FCC and other customary closing conditions, are expected to close in the first half of 2014. The exchange includes a number of swaps that we expect will result in more efficient use of the AWS
and PCS bands. As a result of these agreements, $0.9 billion of Wireless licenses are classified as held for sale and included in Prepaid expenses and other on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2013. Upon completion of the
transaction, we expect to record an immaterial gain.             

Subsequent to the transaction with T-Mobile USA in the fourth quarter of 2013, on January 6, 2014, we announced two agreements with T-Mobile
USA with respect to our remaining 700 MHz A block spectrum licenses. Under one agreement, we will sell certain of these licenses to T-Mobile USA in exchange for cash consideration of approximately $2.4 billion, and under the second agreement we
will exchange the remainder of these licenses for AWS and PCS spectrum licenses. These transactions are subject to the approval of the FCC as well as other customary closing conditions. These transactions are expected to close in the middle of
2014.          Other       During 2013, we acquired various other wireless licenses and markets for cash consideration that was not significant. Additionally, we obtained control of previously unconsolidated wireless partnerships,
which were previously accounted for under the equity method and are now consolidated, which resulted in an immaterial gain. We recorded $0.2 billion of goodwill as a result of these transactions.   

Wireline         HUGHES Telematics, Inc.       During July 2012, we acquired HUGHES Telematics
for approximately $12 per share in cash for a total acquisition price of $0.6 billion. As a result of the transaction, HUGHES Telematics became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon. The consolidated financial statements include the results of HUGHES
Telematics  operations from the date the acquisition closed. Upon closing, we recorded approximately $0.6 billion of goodwill, $0.1 billion of other intangibles, and assumed the debt obligations of HUGHES Telematics, which were approximately
$0.1 billion as of the date of acquisition, and which were repaid by Verizon. Had this acquisition been completed on January 1, 2012 or 2011, the results of the acquired operations of HUGHES Telematics would not have had a significant impact on
the consolidated net income attributable to Verizon. The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more telematics offerings to market for existing and new customers.      The acquisition of HUGHES Telematics was accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method. The cost of the acquisition was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based on
their fair values as of the close of the acquisition, with the excess amount being recorded as goodwill.       Terremark Worldwide, Inc.
      During April 2011, we acquired Terremark for $19 per share in cash. Closing and other direct acquisition-related costs
totaled approximately $13 million after-tax. The acquisition was completed via a tender offer followed by a  short-form  merger under Delaware law through which Terremark became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon. The acquisition
enhanced Verizon s offerings to business and government customers globally.       Other    
  During the fourth quarter of 2013, Verizon acquired an industry leader in content delivery networks for $0.4 billion. We expect the
acquisition will increase our ability to meet the growing demand for online digital media content. Upon closing, we recorded $0.3 billion of goodwill. Additionally, we acquired a technology and television cloud company for cash consideration that
was not significant. The consolidated financial statements include the results of the operations of each of these acquisitions from the date each acquisition closed.      On January 21, 2014, Verizon announced an agreement to acquire a business dedicated to the development of cloud television products and services for cash consideration that was not significant. The
transaction, which was completed in February 2014, is expected to accelerate the availability of next-generation video services.       

Other Factors That
May Affect Future Results     

Regulatory and Competitive Trends    
     Regulatory and Competitive Landscape       Verizon operates in a regulated and highly competitive market. Current and potential competitors include other voice and data service providers such as other wireless companies, traditional telephone
companies, cable companies, Internet service providers, software and application providers, and other non-traditional companies. Many of these companies have a strong market presence, brand recognition, and existing customer relationships, all of
which contribute to intensifying competition and may affect our future revenue growth. Some of our competitors also are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than Verizon. For many services offered by Verizon, the FCC is our primary regulator. The
FCC has jurisdiction over interstate telecommunications services and other matters under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (Communications Act or Act). Other Verizon services are subject to state and local regulation.   
      FCC Regulation        Broadband       Verizon offers many different broadband and Internet access
services. The FCC has adopted a series of orders that impose lesser regulatory requirements on broadband services than apply to older voice and slower data services. For example certain facility unbundling requirements that apply to narrowband
facilities of traditional telephone companies do not apply to broadband facilities. In addition, the FCC concluded that both wireline and wireless broadband Internet access services qualify as largely deregulated information services. Our broadband
Internet access services are subject to various attempts to impose so-called  network neutrality  rules, some of which were affirmed and others vacated on appeal in early 2014. Verizon has been and remains committed to the open Internet
which provides consumers with competitive choices and unblocked access to lawful websites and content when, where, and how they want. This will not change in light of the court s decision. Our commitment applies to broadband Internet access
services provided over both our wireline and wireless networks and can be found on our website at http://responsibility.verizon.com/broadband-commitment.   

Video       Verizon offers a multi-channel video service that is regulated like traditional cable service. The FCC has a body of rules that apply to cable operators, and these rules also generally apply to Verizon.
In addition, the Act generally requires companies to obtain a local cable franchise, and the FCC has adopted rules that interpret and implement this requirement. In areas where Verizon offers its facilities-based multichannel video services, Verizon
has typically been required to obtain a franchise from local authorities.       Wireline Voice    
  Verizon offers many different wireline voice services, including traditional telephone service and other services that rely on newer
technologies such as VoIP. For regulatory purposes, legacy telephone services are generally considered to be  common carrier  services. Common carrier services are subject to heightened regulatory oversight with respect to rates, terms and
conditions, and other aspects of the services. The FCC has not decided the regulatory classification of VoIP but has said VoIP service providers must comply with certain rules, such as 911 capabilities and law enforcement assistance requirements.
      Wireless Services       The FCC regulates several aspects of Verizon Wireless  operations. Generally, the FCC has jurisdiction over the construction, operation, acquisition, and transfer of wireless communications systems.
And all wireless services require use of radio frequency spectrum, the assignment and distribution of which is subject to FCC oversight. Verizon Wireless anticipates that it will need additional spectrum to meet future demand. It can meet spectrum
needs by purchasing licenses or leasing spectrum from others, or by participating in a competitive bidding process for new spectrum from the FCC. Both processes are subject to certain reviews, approvals, and potential conditions.   
  Today, Verizon Wireless holds FCC spectrum licenses that allow it to provide a wide range of mobile and fixed communications services,
including both voice and data services. FCC spectrum licenses typically have a term of 10 years, at which time they are subject to renewal. While the FCC has routinely renewed all of Verizon Wireless  licenses, challenges could be raised in the
future. If a wireless license were revoked or not renewed, Verizon Wireless would not be permitted to provide services on the spectrum. Some of our licenses require us to comply with so-called  open access  FCC regulations, which generally
require licensees of particular spectrum to allow customers to use devices and applications of their choice, subject to certain technical limitations. The FCC has also imposed certain specific mandates on wireless carriers including construction and
geographic coverage requirements, technical operating standards, provision of enhanced 911 services, roaming obligations, and requirements for wireless tower and antenna facilities.   
  The Communications Act imposes restrictions on foreign ownership of U.S. wireless systems. The FCC has approved the foreign ownership in
Verizon that has resulted from the Wireless Transaction. In addition, Verizon Wireless, Verizon and Vodafone entered into an agreement with the federal government that imposes national security and law enforcement-related obligations on the ways in
which Verizon Wireless stores information and otherwise conducts its business.       Intercarrier Compensation and Network Access
      The FCC regulates some of the rates that carriers pay each other for the exchange voice traffic (particularly traditional
wireline traffic) over different networks and other aspects of interconnection for some voice services. In many instances, Verizon makes payments to other providers, and in turn Verizon receives some payments from other carriers. In 2011, the FCC
issued a broad reform order changing, among other things, the framework for many of the per-minute rates that carriers charge each other for the exchange of voice traffic. The new rules gradually reduce many of these rates to zero. This order is
subject to pending reconsideration petitions and appeals. The FCC also regulates some of the rates and terms and conditions for certain wireline  special access  and other services and network facilities. Verizon is both a seller and a
buyer of these services. For example, on the wireline side Verizon sells wholesale circuits to other voice and data service providers. On the wireless side, Verizon purchases special access and other services to transport traffic to and from cell
towers. In addition, as required by the Act, Verizon unbundles certain wireline network elements and makes these facilities and services available to other network providers.       Universal Service       The Communications Act charges the FCC with ensuring
that certain groups and areas have access to communications services, including rural and other high-cost areas, low income subscribers, schools and libraries, rural health-care organizations, and deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals. The FCC
established different subsidy and discount programs to achieve these goals. To pay for these programs, the FCC requires contributions from providers such as Verizon based on reported revenues for certain services. Verizon also receives some payments
from some of these programs but is a net payer into them.          State
Regulation and Local Regulation        Wireline Services       State public utility commissions regulate Verizon s telephone operations with respect to certain telecommunications intrastate matters. Verizon operates as an  incumbent local exchange
carrier  in 14 states. These incumbent operations are subject to various levels of pricing flexibility and other state oversight and requirements. Verizon also has other wireline operations that are more lightly regulated. In addition, as a
video services operator in many states, Verizon has been required to obtain a cable franchise from local government entities, or in some cases a state-wide franchise, and to comply with certain one-time and ongoing obligations as a result.

Wireless Services       The Communications Act generally preempts regulation by state and local governments of the entry of, or the rates charged by, wireless carriers. The Act does not prohibit states from regulating the other
 terms and conditions  of wireless service. For example, some states attempt to regulate wireless customer billing matters and impose reporting requirements. Several states also have laws or regulations that address safety issues (e.g.,
use of wireless handsets while driving) and taxation matters. In addition, wireless tower and antenna facilities are often subject to state and local zoning and land use regulation, and securing approvals for new or modified facilities is often a
lengthy and expensive process.       

Environmental Matters    
    During 2003, under a government-approved plan, remediation commenced at the site of a former Sylvania
facility in Hicksville, New York that processed nuclear fuel rods in the 1950s and 1960s. Remediation beyond original expectations proved to be necessary and a reassessment of the anticipated remediation costs was conducted. A reassessment of costs
related to remediation efforts at several other former facilities was also undertaken. In September 2005, the Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) accepted the Hicksville site into the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program. This may result in the
ACE performing some or all of the remediation effort for the Hicksville site with a corresponding decrease in costs to Verizon. To the extent that the ACE assumes responsibility for remedial work at the Hicksville site, an adjustment to a reserve
previously established for the remediation may be made. Adjustments to the reserve may also be made based upon actual conditions discovered during the remediation at this or any other site requiring remediation.   

Cautionary Statement
Concerning Forward-Looking Statements     
    In this report we have made forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our estimates and
assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include the information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations. Forward-looking statements also include those preceded or followed by the
words  anticipates,   believes,   estimates,   hopes  or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.      The following important factors, along with those discussed elsewhere in this report and in
other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:   

the ability to realize the expected benefits of the Wireless Transaction in the timeframe expected or at all;      

an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit
markets affecting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of further financing;          

significantly increased levels of indebtedness as a result of the Wireless Transaction;      

changes in tax laws or treaties, or in their interpretation;      

adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies;      

material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact;

material changes in technology or technology substitution;      

disruption of our key suppliers  provisioning of products or services;      

changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks;

breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or acts of war or significant litigation and any
resulting financial impact not covered by insurance;          

the effects of competition in the markets in which we operate;      

changes in accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or
their application, which could result in an impact on earnings;          

significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; and      

the inability to implement our business strategies.      

Report of Management
on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     
    We, the management of Verizon Communications Inc., are responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting of the company. Management has evaluated internal control over financial reporting of the company using the criteria for effective internal control established in Internal Control Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 1992.      Management has assessed the
effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. Based on this assessment, we believe that the internal control over financial reporting of the company is effective as of December 31,
2013. In connection with this assessment, there were no material weaknesses in the company s internal control over financial reporting identified by management.      The company s financial statements included in this Annual Report have been audited by Ernst   Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm. Ernst   Young LLP has also
provided an attestation report on the company s internal control over financial reporting.       

/s/    Lowell C. McAdam    
 
             Lowell C. McAdam     
 
            Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

/s/    Francis J. Shammo    
 
             Francis J. Shammo     
 
            Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

/s/    Anthony T. Skiadas    
 
             Anthony T. Skiadas     
 
            Senior Vice President and Controller    

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     
     To The Board of Directors and Shareowners of Verizon Communications Inc.:    
  We have audited Verizon Communications Inc. and subsidiaries  (Verizon) internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in 1992 (1992 framework) (the COSO criteria). Verizon s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Verizon maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Verizon as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive
income, cash flows and changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013 of Verizon and our report dated February 27, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm     
     To The Board of Directors and Shareowners of Verizon Communications Inc.:    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Verizon Communications Inc. and subsidiaries (Verizon) as of
December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013. These financial statements are the
responsibility of Verizon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Verizon at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States), Verizon s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (1992 framework) and our report dated February 27, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       

Consolidated
Statements of Income Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated
Statements of Comprehensive Income Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Balance
Sheets Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated
Statements of Changes in Equity Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries     
      
       Note 1     

Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies     
         Description of
Business       Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon or the Company) is a holding company, which acting through its subsidiaries
is one of the world s leading providers of communications, information and entertainment products and services to consumers, businesses and governmental agencies with a presence in over 150 countries around the world. We have two reportable
segments, Wireless and Wireline. For further information concerning our business segments, see Note 13.      The Wireless segment
provides wireless communications services across one of the most extensive wireless networks in the United States (U.S.) and has the largest fourth-generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution (LTE) technology and third-generation (3G) networks of
any U.S. wireless service provider.      The Wireline segment provides voice, data and video communications products and enhanced
services including broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data center and cloud services, security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the
United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world.       Consolidation       The method of accounting applied to investments, whether
consolidated, equity or cost, involves an evaluation of all significant terms of the investments that explicitly grant or suggest evidence of control or influence over the operations of the investee. The consolidated financial statements include our
controlled subsidiaries. For controlled subsidiaries that are not wholly-owned, the noncontrolling interests are included in Net income and Total equity. Investments in businesses which we do not control, but have the ability to exercise significant
influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method. Investments in which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies are accounted for under the cost
method. Equity and cost method investments are included in Investments in unconsolidated businesses in our consolidated balance sheets. Certain of our cost method investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and adjusted to fair value
pursuant to the accounting standard related to debt and equity securities. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.       Basis of Presentation       We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to the
current year presentation.       Use of Estimates       We prepare our financial statements using U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.      Examples of significant estimates include: the allowance for doubtful
accounts, the recoverability of plant, property and equipment, the recoverability of intangible assets and other long-lived assets, unbilled revenues, fair values of financial instruments, unrecognized tax benefits, valuation allowances on tax
assets, accrued expenses, pension and postretirement benefit assumptions, contingencies and allocation of purchase prices in connection with business combinations.       Revenue Recognition        Multiple Deliverable Arrangements    
  In both our Wireless and Wireline segments, we offer products and services to our customers through bundled arrangements. These
arrangements involve multiple deliverables which may include products, services, or a combination of products and services.      
   Wireless       Our Wireless
segment earns revenue primarily by providing access to and usage of its network. In general, access revenue is billed one month in advance and recognized when earned. Usage revenue is generally billed in arrears and recognized when service is
rendered. Equipment sales revenue associated with the sale of wireless handsets and accessories is recognized when the products are delivered to and accepted by the customer, as this is considered to be a separate earnings process from providing
wireless services. For agreements involving the resale of third-party services in which we are considered the primary obligor in the arrangements, we record the revenue gross at the time of the sale. For equipment sales, we

generally subsidize the cost of wireless devices. The amount of this subsidy is generally contingent on the arrangement and terms selected by the customer. In multiple deliverable arrangements
which involve the sale of equipment and a service contract, the equipment revenue is recognized up to the amount collected when the wireless device is sold.       Wireline       Our Wireline segment earns revenue based upon usage of its
network and facilities and contract fees. In general, fixed monthly fees for voice, video, data and certain other services are billed one month in advance and recognized when earned. Revenue from services that are not fixed in amount and are based
on usage is generally billed in arrears and recognized when service is rendered.      We sell each of the services offered in
bundled arrangements (i.e., voice, video and data), as well as separately; therefore each product or service has a standalone selling price. For these arrangements revenue is allocated to each deliverable using a relative selling price method. Under
this method, arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate deliverable based on our standalone selling price for each product or service. These services include FiOS services, individually or in bundles, and High Speed Internet.
     When we bundle equipment with maintenance and monitoring services, we recognize equipment revenue when the equipment is
installed in accordance with contractual specifications and ready for the customer s use. The maintenance and monitoring services are recognized monthly over the term of the contract as we provide the services.   
  Installation related fees, along with the associated costs up to but not exceeding these fees, are deferred and amortized over the
estimated customer relationship period.      For each of our segments we report taxes imposed by governmental authorities on
revenue-producing transactions between us and our customers on a net basis.       Maintenance and Repairs    
  We charge the cost of maintenance and repairs, including the cost of replacing minor items not constituting substantial betterments,
principally to Cost of services and sales as these costs are incurred.       Advertising Costs    
  Costs for advertising products and services as well as other promotional and sponsorship costs are charged to Selling, general and
administrative expense in the periods in which they are incurred (see Note 15).       Earnings Per Common Share    
  Basic earnings per common share are based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the period. Where appropriate,
diluted earnings per common share include the dilutive effect of shares issuable under our stock-based compensation plans.   
  There were a total of approximately 8 million, 9 million and 6 million stock options and restricted stock units
outstanding included in the computation of diluted earnings per common share for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Outstanding options to purchase shares that were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per common share, because to do so would have been anti-dilutive for the period, were not significant for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and included approximately 19 million weighted-average shares for
the years ended December 31, 2011.      As of December 31, 2013, we were authorized to issue up to 4.25 billion and
250 million shares of common stock and Series Preferred Stock, respectively. On January 28, 2014, at a special meeting of our shareholders, we received shareholder approval to increase our authorized shares of common stock by 2 billion
shares to an aggregate of 6.25 billion authorized shares of common stock. On February 4, 2014, this authorization became effective.       Cash
and Cash Equivalents       We consider all highly liquid investments with a maturity of 90 days or less when purchased to be
cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates quoted market value and include amounts held in money market funds.      
   Marketable Securities    
  We have investments in marketable securities, which are considered  available-for-sale  under the provisions of the accounting
standard for certain debt and equity securities, and are included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets in Short-term investments, Investments in unconsolidated businesses or Other assets. We continually evaluate our investments in
marketable securities for impairment due to declines in market value considered to be other-than-temporary. That evaluation includes, in addition to persistent, declining stock prices, general economic and company-specific evaluations. In the event
of a determination that a decline in market value is other-than-temporary, a charge to earnings is recorded for the loss, and a new cost basis in the investment is established.   

Inventories       Inventory consists of wireless and wireline equipment held for sale, which is carried at the lower of cost (determined principally on either an average cost or first-in, first-out basis) or market.
      Plant and Depreciation       We record plant, property and equipment at cost. Plant, property and equipment of wireline and wireless operations are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis.   
  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated life of the improvement or the remaining term of the related
lease, calculated from the time the asset was placed in service.      When the depreciable assets of our wireline and wireless
operations are retired or otherwise disposed of, the related cost and accumulated depreciation are deducted from the plant accounts, and any gains or losses on disposition are recognized in income.   
  We capitalize and depreciate network software purchased or developed along with related plant assets. We also capitalize interest
associated with the acquisition or construction of network-related assets. Capitalized interest is reported as a reduction in interest expense and depreciated as part of the cost of the network-related assets.   
  In connection with our ongoing review of the estimated remaining average useful lives of plant, property and equipment at our local
telephone operations, we determined that there were no changes necessary for average useful lives for 2013, 2012 and 2011. In connection with our ongoing review of the estimated remaining average useful lives of plant, property and equipment at our
wireless operations, we determined that changes were necessary to the remaining estimated useful lives as a result of technology upgrades, enhancements, and planned retirements. These changes resulted in an increase in depreciation expense of $0.4
billion in 2011. While the timing and extent of current deployment plans are subject to ongoing analysis and modification, we believe the current estimates of useful lives are reasonable.       Computer Software Costs       We capitalize the cost of internal-use network and
non-network software that has a useful life in excess of one year. Subsequent additions, modifications or upgrades to internal-use network and non-network software are capitalized only to the extent that they allow the software to perform a task it
previously did not perform. Planning, software maintenance and training costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Also, we capitalize interest associated with the development of internal-use network and non-network software.
Capitalized non-network internal-use software costs are amortized using the straight-line method over a period of 3 to 7 years and are included in Other intangible assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets. For a discussion of our impairment
policy for capitalized software costs, see  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  below. Also, see Note 3 for additional detail of internal-use non-network software reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.   
   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    
   Goodwill       Goodwill is the
excess of the acquisition cost of businesses over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Impairment testing for goodwill is performed annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. The
Company has the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine if the fair value of the entity is less than its carrying value. However, the Company may elect to perform an impairment test even if no indications of a potential impairment
exist. The impairment test for goodwill uses a two-step approach, which is performed at the reporting unit level. We have determined that in our case, the reporting units are our operating segments since that is the lowest level at which discrete,
reliable financial and cash flow information is available. Step one compares the fair value of the reporting unit (calculated using a market approach and/or a discounted cash flow method) to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair
value, there is a potential impairment and step two must be performed. Step two compares the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill to its implied fair value (i.e., fair value of reporting unit less the fair value of the unit s
assets and liabilities, including identifiable intangible assets). If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount of goodwill, an impairment is recognized.   
      Intangible Assets Not Subject to Amortization    
  A significant portion of our intangible assets are wireless licenses that provide our wireless operations with the exclusive right to
utilize designated radio frequency spectrum to provide wireless communication services. While licenses are issued for only a fixed time, generally ten years, such licenses are subject to renewal by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
License renewals have occurred routinely and at nominal cost. Moreover, we have determined that there are currently no legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of our wireless licenses. As a
result, we treat the wireless licenses as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. We reevaluate the useful life determination for wireless licenses each year to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life.
     We test our wireless licenses for potential impairment annually. In 2013, we performed a qualitative assessment to determine
whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our wireless licenses was less than the carrying amount. As part of our assessment, we considered several qualitative factors including the business enterprise value of Wireless,
macroeconomic conditions (including changes in interest rates and discount   

rates), industry and market considerations (including industry revenue and EBITDA (Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) margin projections), the projected financial
performance of Wireless, as well as other factors. In 2012 and 2011, our quantitative assessment consisted of comparing the estimated fair value of our wireless licenses to the aggregated carrying amount as of the test date. Using the quantitative
assessment, we evaluated our licenses on an aggregate basis using a direct value approach. The direct value approach estimates fair value using a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate what a marketplace participant would be willing to pay to
purchase the aggregated wireless licenses as of the valuation date. If the fair value of the aggregated wireless licenses is less than the aggregated carrying amount of the licenses, an impairment is recognized.   
  Interest expense incurred while qualifying activities are performed to ready wireless licenses for their intended use is capitalized as
part of wireless licenses. The capitalization period ends when the development is discontinued or substantially complete and the license is ready for its intended use.       Intangible Assets Subject to Amortization and Long-Lived Assets       Our
intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives (primarily customer lists and non-network internal-use software) are amortized over their estimated useful lives. All of our intangible assets subject to amortization and long-lived assets are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If any indications were present, we would test for recoverability by comparing the carrying amount of the
asset group to the net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated from the asset group. If those net undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying amount, we would perform the next step, which is to determine the fair value of the asset
and record an impairment, if any. We reevaluate the useful life determinations for these intangible assets each year to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision in their remaining useful lives.   
  For information related to the carrying amount of goodwill by segment, wireless licenses and other intangible assets, as well as the
major components and average useful lives of our other acquired intangible assets, see Note 3.       Fair Value Measurements    
  Fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities is defined as an exit price, representing the amount that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. The three-tier hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value, which prioritizes the inputs used in the methodologies of measuring
fair value for assets and liabilities, is as follows:      Level 1 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
     Level 2 Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities   
  Level 3 No observable pricing inputs in the market      Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements. Our assessment of the significance of a
particular input to the fair value measurements requires judgment, and may affect the valuation of the assets and liabilities being measured and their placement within the fair value hierarchy.   
   Income Taxes       Our
effective tax rate is based on pre-tax income, statutory tax rates, tax laws and regulations and tax planning strategies available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.   
  Deferred income taxes are provided for temporary differences in the bases between financial statement and income tax assets and
liabilities. Deferred income taxes are recalculated annually at tax rates then in effect. We record valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized.  
     We use a two-step approach for recognizing and measuring tax
benefits taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The first step is recognition: we determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation
processes, based on the technical merits of the position. In evaluating whether a tax position has met the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, we presume that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full
knowledge of all relevant information. The second step is measurement: a tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position
is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements will generally
result in one or more of the following: an increase in a liability for income taxes payable, a reduction of an income tax refund receivable, a reduction in a deferred tax asset, or an increase in a deferred tax liability.   
  The accounting standard relating to income taxes generated by leveraged lease transactions requires that changes in the projected timing
of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease transaction be recognized as a gain or loss in the year in which the change occurs.   
  Significant management judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and in determining our effective tax rate.   

Stock-Based Compensation       We measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values. See Note 10 for further details.   
   Foreign Currency Translation       The functional currency of our foreign operations is generally the local currency. For these foreign entities, we translate income statement amounts at average exchange rates for the period, and we
translate assets and liabilities at end-of-period exchange rates. We record these translation adjustments in Accumulated other comprehensive income, a separate component of Equity, in our consolidated balance sheets. We report exchange gains and
losses on intercompany foreign currency transactions of a long-term nature in Accumulated other comprehensive income. Other exchange gains and losses are reported in income.       Employee Benefit Plans       Pension and postretirement health care and life
insurance benefits earned during the year as well as interest on projected benefit obligations are accrued currently. Prior service costs and credits resulting from changes in plan benefits are generally amortized over the average remaining service
period of the employees expected to receive benefits. Expected return on plan assets is determined by applying the return on assets assumption to the actual fair value of plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized in operating results in
the year in which they occur. These gains and losses are measured annually as of December 31 or upon a remeasurement event. Verizon management employees no longer earn pension benefits or earn service towards the company retiree medical subsidy
(see Note 11).      We recognize a pension or a postretirement plan s funded status as either an asset or liability on the
consolidated balance sheets. Also, we measure any unrecognized prior service costs and credits that arise during the period as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of applicable income tax.   
   Derivative Instruments    
  We have entered into derivative transactions primarily to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest
rates, equity and commodity prices. We employ risk management strategies, which may include the use of a variety of derivatives including cross currency swaps, foreign currency and prepaid forwards and collars, interest rate and commodity swap
agreements and interest rate locks. We do not hold derivatives for trading purposes.      We measure all derivatives, including
derivatives embedded in other financial instruments, at fair value and recognize them as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Our derivative instruments are valued primarily using models based on readily observable market
parameters for all substantial terms of our derivative contracts and thus are classified as Level 2. Changes in the fair values of derivative instruments not qualifying as hedges or any ineffective portion of hedges are recognized in earnings in the
current period. Changes in the fair values of derivative instruments used effectively as fair value hedges are recognized in earnings, along with changes in the fair value of the hedged item. Changes in the fair value of the effective portions of
cash flow hedges are reported in Other comprehensive income and recognized in earnings when the hedged item is recognized in earnings.   
   Recently Adopted Accounting Standards       During the first quarter of 2013, we adopted the accounting standard update regarding testing of intangible assets for impairment. This standard update allows companies the option to perform a qualitative
assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An entity is not required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative
impairment test unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not the asset is impaired. The adoption of this standard update did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.   
     During the first quarter of 2013, we adopted the accounting
standard update regarding reclassifications out of Accumulated other comprehensive income. This standard update requires companies to report the effect of significant reclassifications out of Accumulated other comprehensive income on the respective
line items in our consolidated statements of income if the amount being reclassified is required to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same
reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference to other required disclosures that provide additional detail about those amounts. See Note 14 for additional details.   
  During the third quarter of 2013, we adopted the accounting standard update regarding the ability to use the Federal Funds Effective Swap
Rate as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes. Previously the interest rates on direct Treasury obligations of the U.S. government and the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) were considered to be the only benchmark interest
rates. The adoption of this standard update did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.   

Recent Accounting Standards       In July 2013, the accounting standard update relating to the presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists was
issued. The standard update provides that a liability related to an unrecognized tax benefit should be offset against same jurisdiction deferred tax assets for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward if
such settlement is required or expected in the event the uncertain tax position is disallowed. We will adopt this standard update during the first quarter of 2014. We are currently evaluating the consolidated balance sheet impact related to this
standard update.        
       Note 2     

Acquisitions and Divestitures     
      Wireless         Wireless Transaction       On September 2, 2013, Verizon entered into a
stock purchase agreement (the Stock Purchase Agreement) with Vodafone Group Plc (Vodafone) and Vodafone 4 Limited (Seller), pursuant to which Verizon agreed to acquire Vodafone s indirect 45% interest in Cellco Partnership d/b/a Verizon
Wireless (the Partnership, and such interest, the Vodafone Interest) for aggregate consideration of approximately $130 billion.   
  On February 21, 2014, pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Stock Purchase Agreement, Verizon
acquired (the Wireless Transaction) from Seller all of the issued and outstanding capital stock (the Transferred Shares) of Vodafone Americas Finance 1 Inc., a subsidiary of Seller (VF1 Inc.), which indirectly through certain subsidiaries (together
with VF1 Inc., the Purchased Entities) owned the Vodafone Interest. In consideration for the Transferred Shares, upon completion of the Wireless Transaction, Verizon (i) paid approximately $58.89 billion in cash, (ii) issued approximately
$60.15 billion of Verizon s common stock, par value $0.10 per share (the Stock Consideration), (iii) issued senior unsecured Verizon notes in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion (the Verizon Notes), (iv) sold Verizon s
indirectly owned 23.1% interest in Vodafone Omnitel N.V. (Omnitel, and such interest, the Omnitel Interest), valued at $3.5 billion and (v) provided other consideration of approximately $2.5 billion. As a result of the Wireless Transaction,
Verizon issued approximately 1.27 billion shares. The total cash paid to Vodafone and the other costs of the Wireless Transaction, including financing, legal and bank fees, were financed through the incurrence of third-party indebtedness. See Note 8
for additional information.      In accordance with the accounting standard on consolidation, a change in a parent s
ownership interest while the parent retains a controlling financial interest in its subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction and remeasurement of assets and liabilities of previously controlled and consolidated subsidiaries is not
permitted. As a result, we will account for the Wireless Transaction by adjusting the carrying amount of the noncontrolling interest to reflect the change in Verizon s ownership interest in Verizon Wireless. Any difference between the fair
value of the consideration paid and the amount by which the noncontrolling interest is adjusted will be recognized in equity attributable to Verizon.       Omnitel Transaction       On February 21, 2014, Verizon and Vodafone also
implemented the sale of the Omnitel Interest (the Omnitel Transaction) by a subsidiary of Verizon to a subsidiary of Vodafone in connection with the Wireless Transaction pursuant to a separate share purchase agreement. We will recognize a gain on
the disposal of the Omnitel interest in the first quarter of 2014.       Verizon Notes    
  The Verizon Notes were issued pursuant to Verizon s existing indenture. The Verizon Notes were issued in two separate series, with
$2.5 billion due February 21, 2022 and $2.5 billion due February 21, 2025. The Verizon Notes bear interest at a floating rate, which will be reset quarterly, with interest payable quarterly in arrears, beginning May 21, 2014. The eight-year Verizon
notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR, plus 1.222%, and the eleven-year Verizon notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR, plus 1.372%. The indenture that governs the Verizon Notes contains certain
negative covenants, including a negative pledge covenant and a merger or similar transaction covenant, affirmative covenants and events of default that are customary for companies maintaining an investment grade credit rating. An event of default
for either series of the Verizon Notes may result in acceleration of the entire principal amount of all debt securities of that series. Beginning two years after the closing of the Wireless Transaction, Verizon may redeem all or any portion of the
outstanding Verizon Notes held by Vodafone or any of its affiliates for a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Verizon Notes may only be transferred by Vodafone to third parties in specified amounts
during specified periods, commencing January 1, 2017. The Verizon Notes held by third parties will not be redeemable. Verizon has agreed to file a registration statement with respect to the Verizon Notes at least three months prior to the
Verizon Notes becoming transferable.   

Other Consideration       Included in the other consideration paid to Vodafone is the indirect assumption of long-term obligations with respect to 5.143% Class D and Class E cumulative preferred stock (Preferred Stock) issued by
one of the Purchased Entities. Both the Class D (825,000 shares outstanding) and Class E shares (825,000 shares outstanding) are mandatorily redeemable in April 2020 at $1,000 per share plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. Dividends accrue at
5.143% per annum and will be treated as interest expense. Both the Class D and Class E shares will be classified as liability instruments and will be recorded at fair value as determined at the closing of the Wireless Transaction.   
   Pro Forma Information    
  The unaudited pro forma information presents the combined operating results of Verizon and the Vodafone Interest, with the results prior
to the Wireless Transaction closing date adjusted to include the pro forma impact of: the elimination of the historical equity in earnings, net of tax, related to the investment in Omnitel; an adjustment to reflect interest expense associated with
the additional indebtedness incurred and expected to be incurred in connection with the Wireless Transaction and outstanding as of the closing of the Wireless Transaction; an adjustment for the dividends on the Preferred Stock; an adjustment for the
amortization of certain debt incurrence costs based on the contractual life of the underlying indebtedness; an adjustment to reflect changes in the provision for income taxes associated with the additional income attributable to Verizon and the
benefit associated with the additional interest expense; the elimination of the historical net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, representing the noncontrolling interest in Verizon Wireless; and an adjustment to reflect the sum of all
other adjustments to the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of income on net income attributable to Verizon.      The
unaudited pro forma results are presented for illustrative purposes only. These pro forma results do not purport to be indicative of the results that would have actually been obtained if the Wireless Transaction had occurred as of January 1,
2012, nor does the pro forma data intend to be a projection of results that may be obtained in the future.      The following
unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations assume that the Wireless Transaction was completed as of January 1, 2012:       
     Spectrum License Transactions       Since 2012, we have entered into several strategic spectrum transactions including:       

During the third quarter of 2012, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless completed the following previously announced
transactions in which we acquired wireless spectrum that will be used to deploy additional 4G LTE capacity:          

Verizon Wireless acquired Advanced Wireless Services (AWS) spectrum in separate transactions with SpectrumCo and Cox TMI Wireless, LLC for which it
paid an aggregate of $3.9 billion at the time of the closings. Verizon Wireless has also recorded a liability of $0.4 billion related to a three-year service obligation to SpectrumCo s members pursuant to commercial agreements executed
concurrently with the SpectrumCo transaction.          

Verizon Wireless completed license purchase and exchange transactions with Leap Wireless, Savary Island Wireless, which is majority owned by Leap
Wireless, and a subsidiary of T-Mobile USA, Inc. (T-Mobile USA). As a result of these transactions, Verizon Wireless received an aggregate $2.6 billion of AWS and Personal Communication Services (PCS) licenses at fair value and net cash proceeds of
$0.2 billion, transferred certain AWS licenses to T-Mobile USA and a 700 megahertz (MHz) lower A block license to Leap Wireless, and recorded an immaterial gain.      

During the first quarter of 2013, we completed license exchange transactions with T-Mobile License LLC and Cricket License Company, LLC, a
subsidiary of Leap Wireless, to exchange certain AWS licenses. These non-cash exchanges include a number of intra-market swaps that we expect will enable Verizon Wireless to make more efficient use of the AWS band. As a result of these exchanges, we
received an aggregate $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value and recorded an immaterial gain.      

During the third quarter of 2013, after receiving the required regulatory approvals, Verizon Wireless sold 39 lower 700 MHz B block spectrum
licenses to AT T Inc. (AT T) in exchange for a payment of $1.9 billion and the transfer by AT T to Verizon Wireless of AWS (10 MHz) licenses in certain markets in the western United States. Verizon Wireless also sold certain lower 700
MHz B block spectrum licenses to an investment firm for a payment of $0.2 billion. As a result, we received $0.5 billion of AWS licenses at fair value and we recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $0.3 billion in Selling, general and
administrative expense on our consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2013.          

During the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into license exchange agreements with T-Mobile USA to exchange certain AWS and PCS licenses. These
non-cash exchanges, which are subject to approval by the FCC and other customary closing conditions, are expected to close in the first half of 2014. The exchange includes a number of swaps that we expect will result in more efficient use of the AWS
and PCS bands. As a result of these agreements, $0.9 billion of Wireless licenses are classified as held for sale and included in Prepaid expenses and other on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2013. Upon completion of the
transaction, we expect to record an immaterial gain.          

Subsequent to the transaction with T-Mobile USA in the fourth quarter of 2013, on January 6, 2014, we announced two agreements with T-Mobile
USA with respect to our remaining 700 MHz A block spectrum licenses. Under one agreement, we will sell certain of these licenses to T-Mobile USA in exchange for cash consideration of approximately $2.4 billion, and under the second agreement we
will exchange the remainder of these licenses for AWS and PCS spectrum licenses. These transactions are subject to the approval of the FCC as well as other customary closing conditions. These transactions are expected to close in the middle of
2014.          Other       During 2013, we acquired various other wireless licenses and markets for cash consideration that was not significant. Additionally, we obtained control of previously unconsolidated wireless partnerships,
which were previously accounted for under the equity method and are now consolidated, which resulted in an immaterial gain. We recorded $0.2 billion of goodwill as a result of these transactions.   
  During 2012, we acquired various other wireless licenses and markets for cash consideration that was not significant and recorded $0.2
billion of goodwill as a result of these transactions.        Wireline         HUGHES Telematics, Inc.       During July 2012, we acquired HUGHES Telematics,
Inc. (HUGHES Telematics) for approximately $12 per share in cash for a total acquisition price of $0.6 billion. As a result of the transaction, HUGHES Telematics became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon. The consolidated financial statements
include the results of HUGHES Telematics  operations from the date the acquisition closed. Upon closing, we recorded approximately $0.6 billion of goodwill, $0.1 billion of other intangibles, and assumed the debt obligations of HUGHES
Telematics, which were approximately $0.1 billion as of the date of acquisition, and which were repaid by Verizon. Had this acquisition been completed on January 1, 2012 or 2011, the results of the acquired operations of HUGHES Telematics would
not have had a significant impact on the consolidated net income attributable to Verizon. The acquisition has accelerated our ability to bring more telematics offerings to market for existing and new customers.   
  The acquisition of HUGHES Telematics was accounted for as a business combination under the acquisition method. The cost of the
acquisition was allocated to the assets and liabilities acquired based on their fair values as of the close of the acquisition, with the excess amount being recorded as goodwill.       Terremark Worldwide, Inc.       During April 2011, we acquired Terremark
Worldwide, Inc. (Terremark), a global provider of information technology infrastructure and cloud services, for $19 per share in cash. Closing and other direct acquisition-related costs totaled approximately $13 million after-tax. The acquisition
was completed via a tender offer followed by a  short-form  merger under Delaware law through which Terremark became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon. The acquisition enhanced Verizon s offerings to business and government
customers globally.      The consolidated financial statements include the results of Terremark s operations from the date
the acquisition closed. Had this acquisition been consummated on January 1, 2011 the results of Terremark s acquired operations would not have had a significant impact on the consolidated net income attributable to Verizon. The debt
obligations of Terremark that were outstanding at the time of its acquisition by Verizon were repaid during May 2011.       Other
      During the fourth quarter of 2013, Verizon acquired an industry leader in content delivery networks for $0.4 billion. We
expect the acquisition will increase our ability to meet the growing demand for online digital media content. Upon closing, we recorded $0.3 billion of goodwill. Additionally, we acquired a technology and television cloud company for cash
consideration that was not significant. The consolidated financial statements include the results of the operations of each of these acquisitions from the date each acquisition closed.   

On January 21, 2014, Verizon announced an agreement to acquire a business dedicated to
the development of cloud television products and services for cash consideration that was not significant. The transaction, which was completed in February 2014, is expected to accelerate the availability of next-generation video services.
       
       Note 3     

Wireless Licenses, Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets     
     Wireless Licenses       Changes in the carrying amount of Wireless licenses are as follows:       
    Reclassifications, adjustments and other includes $0.9 billion of Wireless licenses that are classified
as held for sale and included in Prepaid expenses and other on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2013 as well as the exchanges of wireless licenses in 2013 and 2012. See Note 2 for additional details.   
  At December 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately $7.7 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively, of wireless licenses were under
development for commercial service for which we were capitalizing interest costs.     The average remaining renewal period of our
wireless license portfolio was 5.1 years as of December 31, 2013. See Note 1 for additional details.       Goodwill    
  Changes in the carrying amount of Goodwill are as follows:       
    The increase in Goodwill at Wireless at December 31, 2013 was primarily due to obtaining control of
previously unconsolidated wireless partnerships, which were previously accounted for under the equity method and are now consolidated. This resulted in an immaterial gain recorded during the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase in
Goodwill at Wireline at December 31, 2013 was primarily due to the acquisition of a provider of content delivery networks.   

Other Intangible Assets       The following table displays the composition of Other intangible assets, net:       
    The amortization expense for Other intangible assets was as follows:   
   
    Estimated annual amortization expense for Other intangible assets is as follows:   

Note 4     

Plant, Property and Equipment     
    The following table displays the details of Plant, property and equipment, which is stated at cost:

Note 5     

Investments in Unconsolidated Businesses     
    Our investments in unconsolidated businesses are comprised of the following:   
   
    Dividends and repatriations of foreign earnings received from these investees were not significant in
2013, $0.4 billion in 2012 and $0.5 billion in 2011. See Note 12 regarding undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries.       Equity
Method Investments        Vodafone Omnitel       Vodafone Omnitel N.V. (Vodafone Omnitel) is one of the largest wireless communications companies in Italy. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, our investment in Vodafone Omnitel included goodwill of $1.1
billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. As part of the consideration of the Wireless Transaction, a subsidiary of Verizon sold its entire ownership interest in Vodafone Omnitel to a subsidiary of Vodafone on February 21, 2014. See Note 2 for
additional information.       Other Equity Investees       The remaining investments include wireless partnerships in the U.S., limited partnership investments in entities that invest in affordable housing projects and other smaller domestic and international
investments.       Summarized Financial Information       Summarized financial information for our equity investees is as follows:       Balance Sheet
       
     Income Statement        

Note 6     

Noncontrolling Interests     
        Noncontrolling
interests in equity of subsidiaries were as follows:       
     Wireless Joint Venture       Our Wireless segment is primarily comprised of Cellco Partnership doing business as Verizon Wireless (Verizon Wireless). Cellco Partnership is a joint venture formed in April 2000 by the combination of
the U.S. wireless operations and interests of Verizon and Vodafone. As of December 31, 2013, Verizon owned a controlling 55% interest in Verizon Wireless and Vodafone owned the remaining 45%. On February 21, 2014, Verizon completed the
Wireless Transaction and acquired 100% ownership of Verizon Wireless. See Note 2 for additional information.       Special Distributions
      In May 2013, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its owners, which was paid in the
second quarter of 2013 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $7.0 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $3.15 billion and the remainder of the distribution was received by
Verizon.      In November 2012, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its owners, which was
paid in the fourth quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $8.5 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $3.8 billion and the remainder of the distribution was
received by Verizon.      In July 2011, the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless declared a distribution to its
owners, which was paid in the first quarter of 2012 in proportion to their partnership interests on the payment date, in the aggregate amount of $10 billion. As a result, Vodafone received a cash payment of $4.5 billion and the remainder of the
distribution was received by Verizon.   
    
       Note 7     

Leasing Arrangements     
     As Lessor       We are the lessor in leveraged and direct financing lease agreements for commercial aircraft and power generating facilities, which comprise the majority of our leasing portfolio along with
telecommunications equipment, commercial real estate property and other equipment. These leases have remaining terms of up to 37 years as of December 31, 2013. In addition, we lease space on certain of our cell towers to other wireless
carriers. Minimum lease payments receivable represent unpaid rentals, less principal and interest on third-party nonrecourse debt relating to leveraged lease transactions. Since we have no general liability for this debt, which is secured by a
senior security interest in the leased equipment and rentals, the related principal and interest have been offset against the minimum lease payments receivable in accordance with U.S. GAAP. All recourse debt is reflected in our consolidated balance
sheets.      At each reporting period, we monitor the credit quality of the various lessees in our portfolios. Regarding the
leveraged lease portfolio, external credit reports are used where available and where not available we use internally developed indicators. These indicators or internal credit risk grades factor historic loss experience, the value of the underlying
collateral, delinquency trends, and industry and general economic conditions. The credit quality of our lessees varies from AAA to CCC+. For each reporting period the leveraged leases within the portfolio are reviewed for indicators of impairment
where it is probable the rent due according to the contractual terms of the lease will not be collected. All significant accounts, individually or in the aggregate, are current and none are classified as impaired.   

Finance lease receivables, which are included in Prepaid expenses and other and Other assets
in our consolidated balance sheets, are comprised of the following:       
    Accumulated deferred taxes arising from leveraged leases, which are included in Deferred income taxes,
amounted to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2013 and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2012.      The following table is a summary of the
components of income from leveraged leases:       
    The future minimum lease payments to be received from noncancelable capital leases (direct financing and
leveraged leases), net of nonrecourse loan payments related to leveraged leases and allowances for doubtful accounts, along with expected receipts relating to operating leases for the periods shown at December 31, 2013, are as follows:
      
     As Lessee       We lease certain facilities and equipment for use in our operations under both capital and operating leases. Total rent expense under operating leases amounted to $2.6 billion in 2013 and $2.5 billion in
2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Amortization of capital leases is included in Depreciation and amortization expense in the
consolidated statements of income. Capital lease amounts included in Plant, property and equipment are as follows:       
    The aggregate minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases for the periods shown at
December 31, 2013, are as follows:       
      
       Note 8     

Debt     
    Changes to debt during 2013 are as follows:   
   
    Debt maturing within one year is as follows:   
   
    The weighted-average interest rate for our commercial paper outstanding was 0.2% and 0.4% at
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   

Credit Facilities       On August 13, 2013, we amended our $6.2 billion credit facility with a group of major financial institutions to extend the maturity date to August 12, 2017. As of December 31, 2013, the
unused borrowing capacity under this credit facility was approximately $6.1 billion.      During October 2013, we entered into a
$2.0 billion 364-day revolving credit agreement with a group of major financial institutions. Although effective as of October 2013, we could not draw on this revolving credit agreement prior to the completion of the Wireless Transaction. We may use
borrowings under the 364-day credit agreement for general corporate purposes. The 364-day revolving credit agreement contains certain negative covenants, including a negative pledge covenant, a merger or similar transaction covenant and an
accounting changes covenant, affirmative covenants and events of default that are customary for companies maintaining an investment grade credit rating. In addition, this agreement requires us to maintain a leverage ratio (as defined in the
agreement) not in excess of 3.50:1.00, until our credit ratings reach a certain level.       Long-Term Debt    
  Outstanding long-term debt obligations are as follows:   
   
     2013       During March 2013, we issued $0.5 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate Notes due 2015 in a private placement resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $0.5 billion, net of discounts and
issuance costs. The proceeds were used for the repayment of commercial paper.      During April 2013, $1.25 billion of 5.25%
Verizon Communications Notes matured and were repaid. In addition, during June 2013, $0.5 billion of 4.375% Verizon Communications Notes matured and were repaid.   

During September 2013, in connection with the Wireless Transaction, we issued $49.0 billion
aggregate principal amount of fixed and floating rate notes resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $48.7 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The issuances consisted of the following: $2.25 billion aggregate principal amount of
floating rate Notes due 2016 that bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.53% which rate will be reset quarterly, $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate Notes due 2018 that bear interest at a rate equal to
three-month LIBOR plus 1.75% which rate will be reset quarterly, $4.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Notes due 2016, $4.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.65% Notes due 2018, $4.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.50%
Notes due 2020, $11.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.15% Notes due 2023, $6.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.40% Notes due 2033 and $15.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.55% Notes due 2043 (collectively, the new notes). The
proceeds of the new notes were used to finance, in part, the Wireless Transaction and to pay related fees and expenses. As a result of the issuance of the new notes, we incurred interest expense related to the Wireless Transaction of $0.7 billion
during 2013.      In addition, during 2013 we utilized $0.2 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.   
  During February 2014, we issued  1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.375% Notes due 2022,  1.25 billion aggregate
principal amount of 3.25% Notes due 2026 and  0.85 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.75% Notes due 2034. The issuance of these Notes resulted in cash proceeds of approximately $5.4 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The net
proceeds were used, in part, to finance the Wireless Transaction. Any net proceeds not used to finance the Wireless Transaction will be used for general corporate purposes. Also, during February 2014, we issued $0.5 billion aggregate principal
amount of 5.9% Retail Notes due 2054 resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $0.5 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes.       Verizon Notes       During February 2014, in connection with the Wireless
Transaction, we issued $5.0 billion aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes. The Verizon Notes were issued in two separate series, with $2.5 billion due February 21, 2022 and $2.5 billion due February 21, 2025. The Verizon Notes bear
interest at a floating rate, which will be reset quarterly, with interest payable quarterly in arrears, beginning May 21, 2014 (see Note 2). The eight-year Verizon notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR, plus 1.222%,
and the eleven-year Verizon notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR, plus 1.372%.       Term Loan Agreement
      During October 2013, we entered into a term loan agreement with a group of major financial institutions pursuant to which
we drew $6.6 billion to finance, in part, the Wireless Transaction and to pay transaction costs. Half of any loans under the term loan agreement have a maturity of three years and the other half have a maturity of five years (the 5-Year Loans). The
5-Year Loans provide for the partial amortization of principal during the last two years that they are outstanding. Loans under the term loan agreement bear interest at floating rates. The term loan agreement contains certain negative covenants,
including a negative pledge covenant, a merger or similar transaction covenant and an accounting changes covenant, affirmative covenants and events of default that are customary for companies maintaining an investment grade credit rating. In
addition, the term loan agreement requires us to maintain a leverage ratio (as defined in the term loan agreement) not in excess of 3.50:1.00, until our credit ratings reach a certain level.       Bridge Credit Agreement       During September 2013, we entered into a $61.0
billion bridge credit agreement with a group of major financial institutions. The credit agreement provided us with the ability to borrow up to $61.0 billion to finance, in part, the Wireless Transaction and to pay related transaction costs.
Following the September 2013 issuance of notes, borrowing availability under the bridge credit agreement was reduced to $12.0 billion. Following the effectiveness of the term loan agreement in October 2013, the bridge credit agreement was terminated
in accordance with its terms and as such, the related fees of $0.2 billion were recognized in Other income and (expense), net during the fourth quarter of 2013.       2012       On November 2, 2012, we announced the commencement of a tender
offer (the Tender Offer) to purchase for cash any and all of the outstanding $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 8.95% Verizon Communications Notes due 2039. In the Tender Offer that was completed November 9, 2012, $0.9 billion
aggregate principal amount of the notes was purchased at a price of 186.5% of the principal amount of the notes (see  Early Debt Redemption and Other Costs ) and $0.35 billion principal amount of the notes remained outstanding. Any accrued
and unpaid interest on the principal purchased was paid to the date of purchase.         During November 2012, we issued $4.5 billion aggregate principal amount of fixed rate notes resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $4.47 billion, net of discounts and issuance costs. The issuances
consisted of the following: $1.0 billion of 0.70% Notes due 2015, $0.5 billion of 1.10% Notes due 2017, $1.75 billion of 2.45% Notes due 2022 and $1.25 billion of 3.85% Notes due 2042. During December 2012, the net proceeds were used to redeem: $0.7
billion of the $2.0 billion of 8.75% Notes due November 2018 at a redemption price of 140.2% of the principal amount of the notes (see  Early Debt Redemption and Other Costs ), $0.75 billion of 4.35% Notes due February 2013 at a redemption
price of 100.7% of the principal amount of the notes and certain telephone subsidiary debt (see  Telephone and Other Subsidiary Debt ), as well as for the Tender Offer and other general corporate purposes. Any accrued and unpaid interest
was paid to the date of redemption.   

In addition, during 2012 we utilized $0.2 billion under fixed rate vendor financing facilities.   
   Verizon Wireless   Notes Payable and Other       Verizon Wireless Capital LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon Wireless, is a limited liability company formed under the laws of Delaware on December 7, 2001 as a special purpose finance
subsidiary to facilitate the offering of debt securities of Verizon Wireless by acting as co-issuer. Other than the financing activities as a co-issuer of Verizon Wireless indebtedness, Verizon Wireless Capital LLC has no material assets,
operations or revenues. Verizon Wireless is jointly and severally liable with Verizon Wireless Capital LLC for co-issued notes.       2013
      During November 2013, $1.25 billion of 7.375% Verizon Wireless Notes and $0.2 billion of 6.50% Verizon Wireless Notes
matured and were repaid. Also during November 2013, Verizon Wireless redeemed $3.5 billion of 5.55% Notes, due February 1, 2014 at a redemption price of 101% of the principal amount of the notes. Any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the
date of redemption.       2012       During February 2012, $0.8 billion of 5.25% Verizon Wireless Notes matured and were repaid. During July 2012, $0.8 billion of 7.0% Verizon Wireless Notes matured and were repaid.   
   Telephone and Other Subsidiary Debt    
   2013       During May 2013,
$0.1 billion of 7.0% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. During June 2013, $0.1 billion of 7.0% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. In addition, during June 2013, we redeemed $0.25 billion of 7.15% Verizon
Maryland LLC Debentures, due May 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures. During October 2013, $0.3 billion of 4.75% Verizon New England Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. During November 2013, we redeemed
$0.3 billion of 6.70% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures, due November 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures. During December 2013, we redeemed $0.2 billion of 7.0% Verizon New York Inc. Debentures, due December
2033 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures and $20 million of 7.0% Verizon Delaware LLC Debentures, due December 2023 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures. Any accrued and unpaid
interest was paid to the date of redemption.       2012       During January 2012, $1.0 billion of 5.875% Verizon New Jersey Inc. Debentures matured and were repaid. During December 2012, we redeemed the $1.0 billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series
A, due March 2013 at a redemption price of 101.1% of the principal amount of the debentures. Any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of redemption.      In addition, during 2012, various Telephone and Other Subsidiary Debentures totaling approximately $0.2 billion were repaid and any accrued and unpaid interest was paid to the date of payment.   
   Early Debt Redemption and Other Costs       During November 2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.8 billion in connection with the purchase of $0.9 billion of the $1.25 billion of 8.95% Verizon Communications Notes due 2039 in a cash tender
offer.      During December 2012, we recorded debt redemption costs of $0.3 billion in connection with the early redemption of
$0.7 billion of the $2.0 billion of 8.75% Verizon Communications Notes due 2018, $1.0 billion of 4.625% Verizon Virginia LLC Debentures, Series A, due March 2013 and $0.75 billion of 4.35% Verizon Communications Notes due February 2013, as well as
$0.3 billion of other costs.       Guarantees       We guarantee the debentures and first mortgage bonds of our operating telephone company subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2013, $3.1 billion principal amount of these obligations remain outstanding.
Each guarantee will remain in place for the life of the obligation unless terminated pursuant to its terms, including the operating telephone company no longer being a wholly-owned subsidiary of Verizon.   

We also guarantee the debt obligations of GTE Corporation that were issued and outstanding
prior to July 1, 2003. As of December 31, 2013, $1.7 billion principal amount of these obligations remain outstanding.       Debt
Covenants       We and our consolidated subsidiaries are in compliance with all debt covenants.   
   Maturities of Long-Term Debt       Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2013 are as follows:       
      
       Note 9     

Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments     
        The following
table presents the balances of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2013:       

(1)      
    quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities      

(2)      
    observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities      

(3)      
    no observable pricing inputs in the market         Equity securities consist of investments in common stock of domestic and international corporations measured using quoted prices in active markets.   
  Fixed income securities consist primarily of investments in U.S. Treasuries, as well as municipal bonds. We use quoted prices in active
markets for our U.S. Treasury securities, and therefore these securities are classified as Level 1. For all other fixed income securities that do not have quoted prices in active markets, we use alternative matrix pricing resulting in these debt
securities being classified as Level 2.   

Derivative contracts are valued using models based on readily observable market parameters
for all substantial terms of our derivative contracts and thus are classified within Level 2. We use mid-market pricing for fair value measurements of our derivative instruments. Our derivative instruments are recorded on a gross basis.   
  We recognize transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the end of the reporting period. There were no transfers within
the fair value hierarchy during 2013.       Fair Value of Short-term and Long-term Debt    
  The fair value of our debt is determined using various methods, including quoted prices for identical terms and maturities, which is a
Level 1 measurement, as well as quoted prices for similar terms and maturities in inactive markets and future cash flows discounted at current rates, which are Level 2 measurements. The fair value of our short-term and long-term debt, excluding
capital leases, was as follows:       
     Derivative Instruments        Interest Rate Swaps       We have entered into domestic interest rate swaps to
achieve a targeted mix of fixed and variable rate debt. We principally receive fixed rates and pay variable rates based on LIBOR, resulting in a net increase or decrease to Interest expense. These swaps are designated as fair value hedges and hedge
against changes in the fair value of our debt portfolio. We record the interest rate swaps at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets as assets and liabilities.      During 2012, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $5.8 billion were settled. As a result of the settlements, we received net proceeds of $0.7 billion, including accrued interest which is included
in Other, net operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The fair value basis adjustment to the underlying debt instruments was recognized into earnings as a reduction of Interest expense over the remaining lives of the
underlying debt obligations. During the second quarter of 2013, interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.25 billion matured and the impact to our consolidated financial statements was not material. During the third quarter of 2013, we entered
into interest rate swaps with a total notional value of $1.8 billion. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of these interest rate swaps was not material. At December 31, 2013, the total notional amount of these interest rate swaps
was $1.8 billion. The ineffective portion of these interest rate swaps was not material at December 31, 2013.       Forward Interest Rate
Swaps       In order to manage our exposure to future interest rate changes, during the fourth quarter of 2013, we entered into
forward interest rate swaps with a notional value of $2.0 billion. We designated these contracts as cash flow hedges. The fair value of these contracts was not material at December 31, 2013.   
   Cross Currency Swaps    
  Verizon Wireless previously entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange approximately $1.6 billion of
British Pound Sterling and Euro-denominated debt into U.S. dollars and to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars, as well as to mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. A portion of the gains
and losses recognized in Other comprehensive income was reclassified to Other income and (expense), net to offset the related pre-tax foreign currency transaction gain or loss on the underlying debt obligations. The fair value of the outstanding
swaps was not material at December 31, 2013 or December 31, 2012. During 2013 and 2012 the gains with respect to these swaps were not material.      During February 2014, we entered into cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges to exchange approximately $5.4 billion of Euro and British Pound Sterling denominated debt into U.S. dollars
and to fix our future interest and principal payments in U.S. dollars, as well as to mitigate the impact of foreign currency transaction gains or losses.   

Concentrations of Credit Risk    
  Financial instruments that subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of temporary cash investments, short-term and
long-term investments, trade receivables, certain notes receivable, including lease receivables, and derivative contracts. Our policy is to deposit our temporary cash investments with major financial institutions. Counterparties to our derivative
contracts are also major financial institutions with whom we have negotiated derivatives agreements (ISDA master agreement) and credit support annex agreements which provide rules for collateral exchange. We generally apply collateralized
arrangements with our counterparties for uncleared derivatives to mitigate credit risk. We may enter into swaps on an uncollateralized basis in certain circumstances. While we may be exposed to credit losses due to the nonperformance of our
counterparties, we consider the risk remote and do not expect the settlement of these transactions to have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition.   
    
       Note 10     

Stock-Based Compensation     
     Verizon Communications Long-Term Incentive Plan    
  The Verizon Communications Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan) permits the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights,
restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance stock units and other awards. The maximum number of shares available for awards from the Plan is 119.6 million shares.   
   Restricted Stock Units    
  The Plan provides for grants of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) that generally vest at the end of the third year after the grant. The RSUs
are classified as equity awards because the RSUs will be paid in Verizon common stock upon vesting. The RSU equity awards are measured using the grant date fair value of Verizon common stock and are not remeasured at the end of each reporting
period. Dividend equivalent units are also paid to participants at the time the RSU award is paid, and in the same proportion as the RSU award.   
   Performance Stock Units    
  The Plan also provides for grants of Performance Stock Units (PSUs) that generally vest at the end of the third year after the grant. As
defined by the Plan, the Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors determines the number of PSUs a participant earns based on the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved over the three-year performance cycle.
The PSUs are classified as liability awards because the PSU awards are paid in cash upon vesting. The PSU award liability is measured at its fair value at the end of each reporting period and, therefore, will fluctuate based on the price of Verizon
common stock as well as performance relative to the targets. Dividend equivalent units are also paid to participants at the time that the PSU award is determined and paid, and in the same proportion as the PSU award. The granted and cancelled
activity for the PSU award includes adjustments for the performance goals achieved.      The following table summarizes Verizon s Restricted
Stock Unit and Performance Stock Unit activity:       
       As of December 31, 2013,
unrecognized compensation expense related to the unvested portion of Verizon s RSUs and PSUs was approximately $0.4 billion and is expected to be recognized over approximately two years.   
  The RSUs granted in 2013 and 2012 have weighted-average grant date fair values of $47.96 and $38.67 per unit, respectively. During 2013,
2012 and 2011, we paid $1.1 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.7 billion, respectively, to settle RSUs and PSUs classified as liability awards.   

Verizon Wireless  Long-Term Incentive Plan    
  The Verizon Wireless Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Wireless Plan) provides compensation opportunities to eligible employees of Verizon
Wireless (the Partnership). Under the Wireless Plan, Value Appreciation Rights (VARs) were granted to eligible employees. As of December 31, 2013, all VARs were fully vested. We have not granted new VARs since 2004.   
  VARs reflect the change in the value of the Partnership, as defined in the Wireless Plan. Similar to stock options, the valuation is
determined using a Black-Scholes model. Once VARs become vested, employees can exercise their VARs and receive a payment that is equal to the difference between the VAR price on the date of grant and the VAR price on the date of exercise, less
applicable taxes. All outstanding VARs are fully exercisable and have a maximum term of 10 years. All VARs were granted at a price equal to the estimated fair value of the Partnership, as defined in the Wireless Plan, at the date of the grant.
     The following table summarizes the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model during 2013:   
   
    The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the measurement
date. Expected volatility was based on a blend of the historical and implied volatility of publicly traded peer companies for a period equal to the VARs expected life ending on the measurement date.   
  The following table summarizes the Value Appreciation Rights activity:       
    During 2013, 2012 and 2011, we paid $0.1 billion, respectively, to settle VARs
classified as liability awards.       Stock-Based Compensation Expense    
  After-tax compensation expense for stock-based compensation related to RSUs, PSUs, and VARs described above included in Net income
attributable to Verizon was $0.4 billion, $0.7 billion and $0.5 billion for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.       Stock Options
      The Plan provides for grants of stock options to participants at an option price per share of no less than 100% of the
fair market value of Verizon common stock on the date of grant. Each grant has a 10-year life, vesting equally over a three-year period, starting at the date of the grant. We have not granted new stock options since 2004.   

The following table summarizes Verizon s stock option activity:   
   
    All stock options outstanding at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were exercisable.   
  The following table summarizes information about Verizon s stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2013:   
   
    The total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2013 is not significant.
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was not significant in 2013 and the associated tax benefits were not significant in 2013, 2012 and 2011. The amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was $0.1 billion in 2013,
$0.3 billion in 2012 and $0.2 billion in 2011. There was no stock option expense for 2013, 2012 and 2011.       
    
       Note 11     

Employee Benefits     
    We maintain non-contributory defined benefit pension plans for many of our employees. In addition, we
maintain postretirement health care and life insurance plans for our retirees and their dependents, which are both contributory and non-contributory, and include a limit on our share of the cost for certain recent and future retirees. In accordance
with our accounting policy for pension and other postretirement benefits, operating expenses include pension and benefit related credits and/or charges based on actuarial assumptions, including projected discount rates and an estimated return on
plan assets. These estimates are updated in the fourth quarter to reflect actual return on plan assets and updated actuarial assumptions. The adjustment is recognized in the income statement during the fourth quarter or upon a remeasurement event
pursuant to our accounting policy for the recognition of actuarial gains/losses.       Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits    
  Pension and other postretirement benefits for many of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Modifications in
benefits have been bargained from time to time, and we may also periodically amend the benefits in the management plans. The following tables summarize benefit costs, as well as the benefit obligations, plan assets, funded status and rate
assumptions associated with pension and postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans.   

Obligations and Funded Status    

Beginning in 2013, as a result of federal health care reform, Verizon no longer files for the
Retiree Drug Subsidy (RDS) and instead contracts with a Medicare Part D plan on a group basis to provide prescription drug benefits to Medicare eligible retirees.      During 2012, we reached agreements with the Communications Workers of America and the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers on new, three-year contracts that cover approximately 43,000 Wireline
employees. This resulted in the adoption of plan amendments which will result in lower other postretirement benefit costs in 2013 and beyond.   

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $22.9 billion
and $26.5 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.      Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in
excess of plan assets follows:      
     Net Periodic Cost       The following table summarizes the benefit (income) cost related to our pension and postretirement health care and life insurance plans:   
   
    Other pre-tax changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive (income)
loss are as follows:       
    The estimated prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plan that will be amortized from
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is not significant. The estimated prior service cost for the defined benefit postretirement plans that will be amortized from Accumulated other
comprehensive income into net periodic benefit (income) cost over the next fiscal year is $0.3 billion.       Assumptions    
  The weighted-average assumptions used in determining benefit obligations follow:   

The weighted-average assumptions used in determining net periodic cost follow:   
   
    In order to project the long-term target investment return for the total portfolio, estimates are
prepared for the total return of each major asset class over the subsequent 10-year period. Those estimates are based on a combination of factors including the current market interest rates and valuation levels, consensus earnings expectations and
historical long-term risk premiums. To determine the aggregate return for the pension trust, the projected return of each individual asset class is then weighted according to the allocation to that investment area in the trust s long-term asset
allocation policy.      The assumed health care cost trend rates follow:   
   
    A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following
effects:       
     Plan Assets       Historically, our portfolio strategy emphasized a long-term equity orientation, significant global diversification, and the use of both public and private investments. In an effort to reduce the risk of
our portfolio strategy and better align assets with liabilities, we have shifted our strategy to one that is more liability driven, where cash flows from investments better match projected benefit payments but result in lower asset returns. We
intend to reduce the likelihood that assets will decline at a time when liabilities increase (referred to as liability hedging), with the goal to reduce the risk of underfunding to the plan and its participants and beneficiaries. Both active and
passive management approaches are used depending on perceived market efficiencies and various other factors. Our diversification and risk control processes serve to minimize the concentration of risk.   
  While target allocation percentages will vary over time, the company s overall investment strategy is to achieve a mix of assets,
which allows us to meet projected benefits payments while taking into consideration risk and return. The current target allocation for plan assets is designed so that 70% of the assets have the objective of achieving a return in excess of the growth
in liabilities (comprised of public equities, private equities, real estate, hedge funds and emerging debt) and 30% of the assets are invested as liability hedging assets (typically longer duration fixed income). This allocation will shift as funded
status improves to a higher allocation to liability hedging assets. Target policies will be revisited periodically to ensure they are in line with fund objectives. Due to our diversification and risks control processes, there are no significant
concentrations of risk, in terms of sector, industry, geography or company names.      Pension and healthcare and life plans assets do not include
significant amounts of Verizon common stock.   

Pension Plans       The fair values for the pension plans by asset category at December 31, 2013 are as follows:       
    The fair values for the pension plans by asset category at December 31, 2012 are as follows:   

The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of pension plan assets
that are measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs:       
     Health Care and Life Plans    
  The fair values for the other postretirement benefit plans by asset category at December 31, 2013 are as follows:
      
    The fair values for the other postretirement benefit plans by asset category at December 31, 2012
are as follows:       

The following are general descriptions of asset categories, as well as the valuation
methodologies and inputs used to determine the fair value of each major category of assets.      Cash and cash equivalents include
short-term investment funds, primarily in diversified portfolios of investment grade money market instruments and are valued using quoted market prices or other valuation methods, and thus are classified within Level 1 or Level 2.   
  Equity securities are investments in common stock of domestic and international corporations in a variety of industry sectors, and are
valued primarily using quoted market prices or other valuation methods, and thus are classified within Level 1 or Level 2.   
  Fixed income securities include U.S. Treasuries and agencies, debt obligations of foreign governments and domestic and foreign
corporations. Fixed income also includes investments in collateralized mortgage obligations, mortgage backed securities and interest rate swaps. The fair value of fixed income securities is based on observable prices for identical or comparable
assets, adjusted using benchmark curves, sector grouping, matrix pricing, broker/dealer quotes and issuer spreads, and thus is classified within Level 1 or Level 2.      Real estate investments include those in limited partnerships that invest in various commercial and residential real estate projects both domestically and internationally. The fair values of real estate
assets are typically determined by using income and/or cost approaches or a comparable sales approach, taking into consideration discount and capitalization rates, financial conditions, local market conditions and the status of the capital markets,
and thus are classified within Level 3.      Private equity investments include those in limited partnerships that invest in
operating companies that are not publicly traded on a stock exchange. Investment strategies in private equity include leveraged buyouts, venture capital, distressed investments and investments in natural resources. These investments are valued using
inputs such as trading multiples of comparable public securities, merger and acquisition activity and pricing data from the most recent equity financing taking into consideration illiquidity, and thus are classified within Level 3.   
  Hedge fund investments include those seeking to maximize absolute returns using a broad range of strategies to enhance returns and
provide additional diversification. The fair values of hedge funds are estimated using net asset value per share (NAV) of the investments. Verizon has the ability to redeem these investments at NAV within the near term and thus are classified within
Level 2. Investments that cannot be redeemed in the near term are classified within Level 3.       Cash Flows    
  In 2013, contributions to our qualified pension plans were not material. Also in 2013, we contributed $0.1 billion to our nonqualified
pension plans and $1.4 billion to our other postretirement benefit plans. We anticipate approximately $1.2 billion in contributions to our qualified pension plans, $0.2 billion to our nonqualified pension plans and $1.4 billion to our other
postretirement benefit plans in 2014.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments       The benefit payments to retirees are expected to be paid as follows:       
     Savings Plan and Employee Stock Ownership Plans    
  We maintain four leveraged employee stock ownership plans (ESOP). Only one plan currently has unallocated shares. We match a certain
percentage of eligible employee contributions to the savings plans with shares of our common stock from this ESOP. At December 31, 2013, the number of unallocated and allocated shares of common stock in this ESOP was 163 thousand and
62 million, respectively. All leveraged ESOP shares are included in earnings per share computations.      Total savings plan costs were $1.0
billion in 2013 and $0.7 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Pension Annuitization       On October 17, 2012, we, along with our subsidiary Verizon Investment Management Corp., and Fiduciary Counselors Inc., as independent fiduciary of the Verizon Management Pension Plan (the Plan),
entered into a definitive purchase agreement with The Prudential Insurance Company of America (Prudential) and Prudential Financial, Inc., pursuant to which the Plan would purchase a single premium group annuity contract from Prudential.   
  On December 10, 2012, upon issuance of the group annuity contract by Prudential, Prudential irrevocably assumed the obligation to
make future annuity payments to approximately 41,000 Verizon management retirees who began receiving pension payments from the Plan prior to January 1, 2010. The amount of each retiree s annuity payment equals the amount of such
individual s pension benefit. In addition, the group annuity contract is intended to replicate the same rights to future payments, such as survivor benefits, that are currently offered by the Plan.   
  We contributed approximately $2.6 billion to the Plan between September 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012 in connection with the
transaction so that the Plan s funding percentage would not decrease as a result of the transaction.       Severance Benefits
      The following table provides an analysis of our actuarially determined severance liability recorded in accordance with the
accounting standard regarding employers  accounting for postemployment benefits:       
     Severance, Pension and Benefit (Credits) Charges    
  During 2013, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits credits of approximately $6.2 billion primarily for our pension and
postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The credits were primarily driven by an increase in our discount rate assumption used to determine the current
year liabilities from a weighted-average of 4.2% at December 31, 2012 to a weighted-average of 5.0% at December 31, 2013 ($4.3 billion), lower than assumed retiree medical costs and other assumption adjustments ($1.4 billion) and the
difference between our estimated return on assets of 7.5% at December 31, 2012 and our actual return on assets of 8.6% at December 31, 2013 ($0.5 billion).      During 2012, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of approximately $7.2 billion primarily for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to
recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges were primarily driven by a decrease in our discount rate assumption used to determine the current year liabilities from a weighted-average of 5% at December 31,
2011 to a weighted-average of 4.2% at December 31, 2012 ($5.3 billion) and revisions to the retirement assumptions for participants and other assumption adjustments, partially offset by the difference between our estimated return on assets of
7.5% and our actual return on assets of 10% ($0.7 billion). As part of this charge, we also recorded $1.0 billion related to the annuitization of pension liabilities, as described above, as well as severance charges of $0.4 billion primarily for
approximately 4,000 management employees.      During 2011, we recorded net pre-tax severance, pension and benefits charges of
approximately $6.0 billion for our pension and postretirement plans in accordance with our accounting policy to recognize actuarial gains and losses in the year in which they occur. The charges were primarily driven by a decrease in our discount
rate assumption used to determine the current year liabilities from 5.75% at December 31, 2010 to 5% at December 31, 2011 ($5.0 billion); the difference between our estimated return on assets of 8% and our actual return on assets of 5%
($0.9 billion); and revisions to the life expectancy of participants and other adjustments to assumptions.   

Note 12     

Taxes     
     
  The components of income before (provision) benefit for income taxes are as follows:   
   
    The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes are as follows:   
   
    The following table shows the principal reasons for the difference between the effective income tax rate
and the statutory federal income tax rate:       
    The effective income tax rate for 2013 was 19.6% compared to (6.7)% for 2012. The increase in the
effective income tax rate and provision for income taxes was primarily due to higher income before income taxes as a result of severance, pension and benefit credits recorded during 2013 compared to lower income before income taxes as a result of
severance, pension and benefit charges as well as early debt redemption costs recorded during 2012.   

The effective income tax rate for 2012 was (6.7)% compared to 2.7% for 2011. The negative
effective income tax rate for 2012 and the decrease in the provision for income taxes during 2012 compared to 2011 was primarily due to lower income before income taxes as a result of higher severance, pension and benefit charges as well as early
debt redemption costs recorded during 2012.      The amounts of cash taxes paid are as follows:   
   
    Deferred taxes arise because of differences in the book and tax bases of certain assets and liabilities.
Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:       
    At December 31, 2013, undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely invested
outside the U.S. amounted to approximately $2.1 billion. The majority of Verizon s cash flow is generated from domestic operations and we are not dependent on foreign cash or earnings to meet our funding requirements, nor do we intend to
repatriate these undistributed foreign earnings to fund U.S. operations. Furthermore, a portion of these undistributed earnings represent amounts that legally must be kept in reserve in accordance with certain foreign jurisdictional requirements and
are unavailable for distribution or repatriation. As a result, we have not provided U.S. deferred taxes on these undistributed earnings because we intend that they will remain indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S. and therefore unavailable for
use in funding U.S. operations. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred taxes related to these undistributed earnings is not practicable.      At December 31, 2013, we had net after-tax loss and credit carry forwards for income tax purposes of approximately $2.7 billion. Of these net after-tax loss and credit carry forwards, approximately
$2.1 billion will expire between 2014 and 2033 and approximately $0.6 billion may be carried forward indefinitely. The amount of net after-tax loss and credit carry forwards reflected as a deferred tax asset above has been reduced by approximately
$0.1 billion at December 31, 2012 due to federal and state tax law limitations on utilization of net operating losses.   
  During 2013, the valuation allowance decreased approximately $0.4 billion. The balance of the valuation allowance at
December 31, 2013 and the 2013 activity is primarily related to state and foreign tax losses and credit carry forwards.   

Unrecognized Tax Benefits       A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
    Included in the total unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is $1.4 billion,
$2.1 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, that if recognized, would favorably affect the effective income tax rate.      We recognized the
following net after-tax benefits related to interest and penalties in the provision for income taxes:       
    The after-tax accruals for the payment of interest and penalties in the consolidated balance sheets are as follows:
      
    The decrease in unrecognized tax benefits was primarily due to the resolution of issues with the Internal
Revenue Services (IRS) involving tax years 2004 through 2006, as well as the resolution of tax controversies in Canada and Italy.      Verizon and/or its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. As a large taxpayer, we are under audit by the IRS and
multiple state and foreign jurisdictions for various open tax years. The IRS is currently examining the Company s U.S. income tax returns for tax years 2007-2009 and Cellco Partnership s U.S. income tax returns for tax years 2010-2011.
Significant tax examinations and litigation are ongoing in New York City for tax years as early as 2000. The amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months due to the expiration of the statute of
limitations in various jurisdictions and it is reasonably possible that various current tax examinations will conclude or require reevaluations of the Company s tax positions during this period. An estimate of the range of the possible change
cannot be made until these tax matters are further developed or resolved.   

Note 13     

Segment Information     
     Reportable Segments       We have two reportable segments, which we operate and manage as strategic business units and organize by products and services. We measure and evaluate our reportable segments based on segment operating
income, consistent with the chief operating decision maker s assessment of segment performance.      Corporate, eliminations
and other includes unallocated corporate expenses, intersegment eliminations recorded in consolidation, the results of other businesses, such as our investments in unconsolidated businesses, pension and other employee benefit related costs, lease
financing, as well as other adjustments and gains and losses that are not allocated in assessing segment performance due to their non-operational nature. Although such transactions are excluded from the business segment results, they are included in
reported consolidated earnings. Gains and losses that are not individually significant are included in all segment results as these items are included in the chief operating decision maker s assessment of segment performance.   
  The reconciliation of segment operating revenues and expenses to consolidated operating revenues and expenses below also includes those
items of a non-recurring or non-operational nature. We exclude from segment results the effects of certain items that management does not consider in assessing segment performance, primarily because of their non-recurring or non-operational nature.
     We have adjusted prior period consolidated and segment information, where applicable, to conform to current year
presentation.      Our segments and their principal activities consist of the following:   

Segment   
      
   Description    

Wireless    
      
    Wireless  communications products and services include wireless voice and data services and equipment sales, which are provided to consumer, business and
government customers across the United States.    

Wireline    
      
    Wireline s voice, data and video communications products and enhanced services include broadband video and data, corporate networking solutions, data
center and cloud services, security and managed network services and local and long distance voice services. We provide these products and services to consumers in the United States, as well as to carriers, businesses and government customers both
in the United States and in over 150 other countries around the world.    

The following table provides operating financial information for our two reportable segments:   

Reconciliation to Consolidated Financial Information    
  A reconciliation of the segment operating revenues to consolidated operating revenues is as follows:   
   
    A reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments  operating income to consolidated Income
before (provision) benefit for income taxes is as follows:       
    A reconciliation of the total of the reportable segments  assets to consolidated assets is as follows:   
   
    Corporate, eliminations and other at December 31, 2013 is primarily comprised of cash and cash
equivalents which were used to complete the Wireless Transaction on February 21, 2014.      We generally account for
intersegment sales of products and services and asset transfers at current market prices. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total operating revenues during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. International
operating revenues and long-lived assets are not significant.   

Note 14     

Comprehensive Income     
    Comprehensive income consists of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that, under U.S.
GAAP, are excluded from net income. Significant changes in the components of Other comprehensive income, net of provision for income taxes are described below.       Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income       The changes in the balances of Accumulated other
comprehensive income by component are as follows:       
    The amounts presented above in net other comprehensive income are net of taxes and noncontrolling
interests, which are not significant. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the amounts reclassified to net income related to defined benefit pension and postretirement plans in the table above are included in Cost of services and sales and
Selling, general and administrative expense on our consolidated statements of income. For the year ended December 31, 2013, all other amounts reclassified to net income in the table above are included in Other income, net on our consolidated
statements of income.       Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments    
  The change in Foreign currency translation adjustments during 2013, 2012 and 2011 was primarily related to our investment in Vodafone
Omnitel N.V. and was primarily driven by the movements of the U.S. dollar against the Euro.       Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Cash Flow
Hedges       During 2013, 2012 and 2011, Unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges included in Other comprehensive income
(loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, primarily reflect activity related to a cross currency swap (see Note 9). Reclassification adjustments for gains (losses) realized in net income were not significant.   
   Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Marketable Securities       During 2013, 2012 and 2011, reclassification adjustments on marketable securities for gains (losses) realized in net income were not significant.       Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement Plans       The change in Defined benefit pension and
postretirement plans at December 31, 2013 was not significant.      The change in Defined benefit pension and postretirement
plans of $0.9 billion, net of taxes of $0.6 billion at December 31, 2012 was primarily a result of plan amendments.   

Note 15     

Additional Financial Information     
    The tables that follow provide additional financial information related to our consolidated financial statements:
      Income Statement Information    
     Balance Sheet Information    
     Cash Flow Information    
    Common stock has been used from time to time to satisfy some of the funding requirements of employee and
shareowner plans, including 24.6 million common shares issued from Treasury stock during 2012, related to dividend payments, which had an aggregate value of $1.0 billion.   
    
       Note 16     

Commitments and Contingencies     
    In the ordinary course of business Verizon is involved in various commercial litigation and regulatory
proceedings at the state and federal level. Where it is determined, in consultation with counsel based on litigation and settlement risks, that a loss is probable and estimable in a given matter, the Company establishes an accrual. In none of the
currently pending matters is the amount of accrual material. An estimate of the reasonably possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amounts already accrued cannot be made at this time due to various factors typical in contested
proceedings, including (1) uncertain damage theories and demands; (2) a less than complete factual record; (3) uncertainty concerning legal theories and their resolution by courts or regulators; and (4) the unpredictable
nature of the opposing party and its demands. We continuously monitor these proceedings as they develop and adjust any accrual or disclosure as needed. We do not expect that the ultimate resolution of any pending regulatory or legal matter in future
periods, including the Hicksville matter described below, will have a material effect on our financial condition, but it could have a material effect on our results of operations for a given reporting period.   

During 2003, under a government-approved plan, remediation commenced at the site of a former
Sylvania facility in Hicksville, New York that processed nuclear fuel rods in the 1950s and 1960s. Remediation beyond original expectations proved to be necessary and a reassessment of the anticipated remediation costs was conducted. A reassessment
of costs related to remediation efforts at several other former facilities was also undertaken. In September 2005, the Army Corps of Engineers (ACE) accepted the Hicksville site into the Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program. This may
result in the ACE performing some or all of the remediation effort for the Hicksville site with a corresponding decrease in costs to Verizon. To the extent that the ACE assumes responsibility for remedial work at the Hicksville site, an adjustment
to a reserve previously established for the remediation may be made. Adjustments to the reserve may also be made based upon actual conditions discovered during the remediation at this or any other site requiring remediation.   
  Verizon is currently involved in approximately 50 federal district court actions alleging that Verizon is infringing various patents.
Most of these cases are brought by non-practicing entities and effectively seek only monetary damages; a small number are brought by companies that sell products and seek injunctive relief as well. These cases have progressed to various degrees and
a small number may go to trial in the coming 12 months if they are not otherwise resolved. In the third quarter of 2012, we settled a number of patent litigation matters, including cases with ActiveVideo Networks Inc. (ActiveVideo) and TiVo Inc.
(TiVo). In connection with the settlements with ActiveVideo and TiVo, we recorded a charge of $0.4 billion in the third quarter of 2012 and will pay and recognize over the following six years an additional $0.2 billion.   
  In connection with the execution of agreements for the sales of businesses and investments, Verizon ordinarily provides representations
and warranties to the purchasers pertaining to a variety of nonfinancial matters, such as ownership of the securities being sold, as well as indemnity from certain financial losses. From time to time, counterparties may make claims under these
provisions, and Verizon will seek to defend against those claims and resolve them in the ordinary course of business.   
  Subsequent to the sale of Verizon Information Services Canada in 2004, we continue to provide a guarantee to publish directories, which
was issued when the directory business was purchased in 2001 and had a 30-year term (before extensions). The preexisting guarantee continues, without modification, despite the subsequent sale of Verizon Information Services Canada and the spin-off
of our domestic print and Internet yellow pages directories business. The possible financial impact of the guarantee, which is not expected to be adverse, cannot be reasonably estimated as a variety of the potential outcomes available under the
guarantee result in costs and revenues or benefits that may offset each other. We do not believe performance under the guarantee is likely.      As of December 31, 2013, letters of credit totaling approximately $0.1 billion, which were executed in the normal course of business and support several financing arrangements and payment obligations
to third parties, were outstanding.      We have several commitments primarily to purchase handsets and peripherals, equipment,
software, programming and network services, and marketing activities, which will be used or sold in the ordinary course of business, from a variety of suppliers totaling $33.4 billion. Of this total amount, $19.7 billion is attributable to 2014,
$8.8 billion is attributable to 2015 through 2016, $4.1 billion is attributable to 2017 through 2018 and $0.8 billion is attributable to years thereafter. These amounts do not represent our entire anticipated purchases in the future, but represent
only those items that are the subject of contractual obligations. Our commitments are generally determined based on the noncancelable quantities or termination amounts. Purchases against our commitments for 2013 totaled approximately $16
billion. Since the commitments to purchase programming services from television networks and broadcast stations have no minimum volume requirement, we estimated our obligation based on number of subscribers at December 31, 2013, and applicable
rates stipulated in the contracts in effect at that time. We also purchase products and services as needed with no firm commitment.   

Note 17     

Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)     

Results of operations for the second quarter of 2013 include after-tax credits attributable to Verizon of $0.1 billion related to a pension
remeasurement.          

Results of operations for the third quarter of 2013 include immaterial after-tax credits attributable to Verizon related to a gain on a spectrum
license transaction, as well as immaterial after-tax costs attributable to Verizon related to the Wireless Transaction.          

Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2013 include after-tax credits attributable to Verizon of $3.7 billion related to severance, pension
and benefit credits, as well as after-tax costs attributable to Verizon of $0.5 billion related to the Wireless Transaction.          

Results of operations for the third quarter of 2012 include after-tax charges attributable to Verizon of $0.2 billion related to legal settlements.

Results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2012 include after-tax charges attributable to Verizon of $5.3 billion related to severance, pension
and benefit charges and early debt redemption and other costs.          

(1)      
    Net income (loss) attributable to Verizon per common share is computed independently for each quarter and the sum of the quarters may not equal the
annual amount.      

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 d622994dex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21 

EXHIBIT 21        Verizon Communications Inc. and Subsidiaries       Principal Subsidiaries of
Registrant at December 31, 2013       

Name          

Jurisdiction of Organization   

Verizon California Inc.   

California    

Verizon Delaware LLC.   

Delaware    

Verizon Florida LLC.   

Florida    

Verizon Maryland LLC.   

Delaware    

Verizon New England Inc.   

New York    

Verizon New Jersey Inc.   

New Jersey    

Verizon New York Inc.   

New York    

Verizon Pennsylvania LLC.   

Delaware    

GTE Southwest Incorporated (d/b/a Verizon Southwest)   

Delaware    

Verizon Virginia LLC.   

Virginia    

Bell Atlantic Mobile Systems LLC.   

Delaware    

Cellco Partnership (d/b/a Verizon Wireless)   

Delaware    

GTE Corporation   

New York    

GTE Wireless Incorporated   

Delaware    

MCI Communications Corporation   

Delaware    

Verizon Business Global LLC.   

Delaware    

Cranberry Properties LLC.  

Delaware    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 d622994dex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 

EXHIBIT 23       Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      We consent to the
incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) of our reports dated February 27, 2014, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Verizon and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting of Verizon, included in the 2013 Annual Report to Shareowners of Verizon.      Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule of Verizon listed in Item 15(a). This schedule is the responsibility of Verizon s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion, as to which the date
is February 27, 2014, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.   
  We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the following registration statements of Verizon and where applicable, related
Prospectuses, of our reports dated February 27, 2014, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Verizon and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Verizon, incorporated herein by reference, and our
report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule of Verizon included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2013: Form S-4, No. 333-11573; Form S-8, No. 333-41593;
Form S-8, No. 333-50146; Form S-4, No. 333-76171; Form S-8, No. 333-76171; Form S-8, No. 333-53830; Form S-8, No. 333-82690; Form S-4, No. 333-124008; Form S-8, No. 333-124008; Form S-4, No. 333-132651; Form
S-8, No. 333-169267; Form S-8, No. 333-172501; Form S-8, No. 333-172999; Form S-3, No. 333-182749; Form S-3, No. 333-190954 and Form S-4, No. 333-191628.   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 d622994dex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1       I, Lowell C. McAdam, certify that:       

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Verizon Communications Inc.;      

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

(a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

(b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

(d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      

(a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

(b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

Date: February 27, 2014  

/s/    Lowell C. McAdam   

Lowell C. McAdam   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 d622994dex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2       I, Francis J. Shammo, certify that:       

1.  
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Verizon Communications Inc.;      

2.  
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      

3.  
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects
the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;          

4.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      

(a)  
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;      

(b)  
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c)  
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and          

(d)  
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s
most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and      

5.  
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      

(a)  
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably
likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and          

(b)  
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting.          

Date: February 27, 2014  

/s/    Francis J. Shammo   

Francis J. Shammo   

Executive Vice President                 and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 d622994dex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE   
  I, Lowell C. McAdam, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (the Company), certify that:   

(1)  
    the report of the Company on Form 10-K for the annual period ending December 31, 2013 (the Report) fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); and          

(2)  
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company
as of the dates and for the periods referred to in the Report.          

Date: February 27, 2014  

/s/    Lowell C. McAdam   

Lowell C. McAdam   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Verizon Communications Inc. and will be retained
by Verizon Communications Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 d622994dex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2       CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002, PURSUANT TO SECTION 1350 OF CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18 OF THE UNITED STATES CODE   
  I, Francis J. Shammo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (the Company), certify that:

(1)  
    the report of the Company on Form 10-K for the annual period ending December 31, 2013 (the Report) fully complies with the requirements of
section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act); and          

(2)  
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company
as of the dates and for the periods referred to in the Report.          

Date: February 27, 2014  

/s/    Francis J. Shammo   

Francis J. Shammo   

Executive Vice President                 and Chief Financial Officer    
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document
authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Verizon Communications Inc. and will be retained
by Verizon Communications Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99>
 11
 d622994dex99.htm
 EXHIBIT 99

Exhibit 99 

EXHIBIT 99   
  Selected Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Information included in the Preliminary Proxy Statement for the Verizon 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2014       
 [This portion of the page intentionally left blank]      
          Business Conduct and
Ethics         Verizon is committed to operating our
business with the highest level of integrity, responsibility and accountability. We have adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to all employees, including the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller. The Code
of Conduct describes each employee s responsibility to conduct business with the highest ethical standards and provides guidance in preventing, reporting and remediating potential compliance violations in key areas. Directors are expected to
act in compliance with the spirit of the Code of Conduct, as well as comply with the specific ethical provisions of the Corporate Governance Guidelines. We have posted the Code of Conduct on the Corporate Governance section of our website at
www.verizon.com/investor. You can also obtain a copy by writing to the Assistant Corporate Secretary at the address given under  Contacting Verizon.     The
Board is strongly predisposed against waiving any of the business conduct and ethics provisions applicable to Directors or executive officers. In the event of a waiver, we will promptly disclose the Board s action on our website.  
  Related Person Transaction Policy       
 The Board has adopted the Related Person Transaction Policy that is included in the Guidelines, which can be found in Appendix A. The Corporate Governance and Policy
Committee reviews transactions involving Verizon and any of our Directors or executive officers or their immediate family members to determine if any of the individual participants has a material interest in the transaction. Based on the facts and
circumstances of each case, the Committee may approve, disapprove, ratify or cancel the transaction or recommend another course of action. Any member of the Committee who is involved in a transaction under review cannot participate in the
Committee s decision about that transaction.    From time to time Verizon may have employees who are related to our executive officers or Directors. Francis J.
Shammo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has a brother-in-law who is employed by one of the Company s subsidiaries and earned approximately $358,000 in 2013. W. Robert Mudge, President   Consumer and
 
      2  

Mass Business Markets, has a brother who is employed by one of the Company s subsidiaries and earned approximately $126,000 in 2013. In each case, the amount of compensation was commensurate
with that of other employees in similar positions.        [This portion of the page
intentionally left blank]         Independence   
     Verizon s Corporate Governance Guidelines require that a
substantial majority of the members of the Board be independent Directors. The Guidelines establish standards for evaluating the independence of each Director. A Director is considered independent if the Board finds that the Director is independent
under the NYSE s and Nasdaq s governance standards and the additional standards included in the Guidelines, which identify the types of relationships that, if material, would impair a Director s independence. The standards set
monetary thresholds at which the Board would consider the relationships to be material. To determine that a Director is independent, the Board must find that a Director does not have any relationship that is likely to impair his or her ability to
act independently. The Board makes this determination by evaluating the facts and circumstances for each Director.    The Corporate Governance and Policy Committee
conducts an annual review of the independence of members of the Board and its Committees and reports its findings to the full Board. Based on the recommendation of the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee, the Board has determined that the
10 incumbent non-employee Directors who are standing for election are independent: Shellye Archambeau, Richard Carri n, Melanie Healey, M. Frances Keeth, Robert Lane, Donald Nicolaisen, Clarence Otis, Jr., Rodney Slater, Kathryn Tesija and
Gregory Wasson. The Board also determined that Sandra Moose, Joseph Neubauer and Hugh Price, who are retiring from the Board in April 2014 and are not standing for re-election, are independent.  
 In determining the independence of Mr. Carri n, Ms. Healey, Mr. Neubauer, Mr. Otis, Mr. Price, Mr. Slater, Ms. Tesija and
Mr. Wasson, the Board considered payments for telecommunications services and solutions that the companies that employ them made to Verizon. In determining Mr. Neubauer s independence, the Board also considered payments that Verizon
made under a competitively bid contract for food and facility management services to the company that employs him. In determining Ms. Tesija s independence, the Board also considered payments that Verizon made to the company that employs
her in connection with sales of Verizon s products and services in that company s stores. In determining Mr. Wasson s independence, the Board also considered payments for workers  compensation prescription benefits that
Verizon made to the company that employs him. In applying the independence standards, the independent Directors have determined that these general business transactions and relationships are not material and do not impair the ability of those
Directors to act independently.          
 [This portion of the page intentionally left blank]      
   
      3  

Audit Committee          

Members:   
      
 Donald Nicolaisen, Chairperson 
      
 Clarence Otis, Jr.  

M. Frances Keeth 
      
 Gregory Wasson  

Sandra Moose 

The Board has determined that each member of the Committee is an audit committee financial expert and meets the
independence requirements of applicable laws, the NYSE, Nasdaq and the Guidelines.          
     [This portion of the page intentionally left blank]  
           
      5  

[This portion of the page
intentionally left blank]              

SHELLYE L. ARCHAMBEAU   
   Ms. Archambeau, 51, is Chief Executive Officer of MetricStream, Inc., a leading provider of governance, risk, compliance and quality
management solutions to corporations across diverse industries. Under her leadership, the privately-held MetricStream has grown 2,500% over the past ten years, with approximately 1,000 employees worldwide. Prior to joining MetricStream in 2002,
Ms. Archambeau was Chief Marketing Officer and Executive Vice President of Sales for Loudcloud, Inc., a leader in Internet infrastructure services, Chief Marketing Officer of NorthPoint Communications and President of Blockbuster Inc. s
e-commerce division. Before joining Blockbuster, she held domestic and international executive positions during a 15-year career at IBM.    Ms. Archambeau brings
to the Board, among other skills and qualifications, leadership experience in technology, e-commerce, digital media and communications. An active participant in Silicon Valley s emerging company community, her in-depth knowledge of the
technology sector and extensive background in the application of emerging technologies to address business challenges uniquely position her to advise the Board and senior management on implementing the Company s growth strategies.
Ms. Archambeau s experience developing and marketing telecommunications and Internet services and solutions gives her insight into areas critical to Verizon s success.  
 Ms. Archambeau has served as a Director of Verizon since December 2013. In the past five years, she has served on the board of Arbitron, Inc.  
      11  

RICHARD L. CARRI N   
   Mr. Carri n, 61, has served for over 18 years as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of both Popular, Inc., a
diversified bank holding company, and Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, Popular Inc. s principal bank subsidiary. Popular, Inc. is the largest financial institution based in Puerto Rico, with consolidated assets of $36 billion, total deposits of
$27 billion and 8,059 employees as of December 31, 2012. In addition to his experience guiding these companies, Mr. Carri n has been a class A director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York since 2008. In that role, he contributes
to the formulation of monetary policy, oversight of the bank s operational risk management and the review and appointment of senior management of the bank.    As
a result of his tenure as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Popular, Inc. and Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, Mr. Carri n brings to the Board a strong operational and strategic background and extensive business, leadership
and management experience. In addition, Mr. Carri n s knowledge of business and consumer services gives him insights into providing services to retail and business customers, activities that make up a significant portion of
Verizon s business. Mr. Carri n s experience at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York also enables him to advise the Board and senior management on risk management, which is an important area for a large, complex organization
like Verizon.    Mr. Carri n has served as a Director of Verizon since 1997 and was a director of NYNEX Corporation from 1995 to 1997. He is Chairperson of
the Finance Committee and a member of the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee and the Human Resources Committee.      

MELANIE L. HEALEY   
   Ms. Healey, 52, is Group President   North America and Global Hyper-Market, Super-Market and Mass Channel of The
Procter   Gamble Company, a provider of branded consumer packaged goods to customers in over 180 countries around the world. In this role, Ms. Healey is responsible for the overall North America business, which in fiscal 2013 had net
sales of $32.8 billion. Since joining Procter   Gamble in 1990, Ms. Healey has held positions of increasing responsibility, including Group President, Global Feminine and Health Care, and President, Global Feminine Care  
Adult Care.    Ms. Healey brings to the Board, among other skills and qualifications, an extensive background in consumer goods, marketing and international
operations. Her experience in marketing, including more than 15 years outside the United States, uniquely positions Ms. Healey to advise the Board and senior management on critical issues facing Verizon, including corporate strategy with
respect to brand management, the consumer experience and global growth. In addition, Ms. Healey s leadership experience at a complex international organization with a large, diverse workforce gives her a thorough understanding of the
operational challenges facing Verizon.    Ms. Healey has served as a Director of Verizon since 2011 and is a member of the Human Resources Committee.  
      12  

M. FRANCES KEETH   
   Ms. Keeth, 67, was Executive Vice President of Royal Dutch Shell plc, an energy company, from 2005 to 2006. In this role,
Ms. Keeth was accountable for Shell s global chemicals businesses, which produced $36.3 billion in third party revenue in 2006 and operated in 35 countries. From 2001 to 2006, she was also President and Chief Executive Officer of Shell
Chemicals LP, Shell s U.S. operating company through which it conducted all of its operations in the United States. During her 37-year career, Ms. Keeth held multiple positions of increasing responsibility at Shell, including serving as
Executive Vice President, Finance and Business Systems, and Executive Vice President, Customer Fulfillment and Product Business Units. In addition, from 1996 to 1997, Ms. Keeth was controller and principal accounting officer of Mobil
Corporation.    Ms. Keeth s extensive senior leadership experience at Shell, a complex global business organization, positions her well to advise the Board
and senior management on a wide range of strategic and financial matters. Ms. Keeth brings to the Board, among other skills and qualifications, valuable business, leadership and operations management experience in a global, capital-intensive
business. As a result of this experience, she is able to provide insights into many aspects of our business, including business systems, public accounting and finance. Ms. Keeth also has extensive expertise in international operations and
strategic partnerships, which assists the Company in implementing our growth strategies.    Ms. Keeth has served as a Director of Verizon since 2006 and is a
member of the Audit Committee, the Human Resources Committee, and the Finance Committee. She is also a director of Arrow Electronics, Inc. (since 2004) and, in the past five years, she has served as a director of Peabody Energy Corporation.  

ROBERT W. LANE   
   Mr. Lane, 64, served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Deere   Company from 2000 to 2009. Deere   Company
is an equipment manufacturer that in fiscal 2009 had net sales and revenues of $23.1 billion and approximately 51,300 employees as of October 31, 2009. During his 28 years at Deere, Mr. Lane held positions of increasing responsibility
across a wide variety of domestic and overseas units. These positions included serving as President and Chief Operating Officer of the company, President of the Worldwide Agricultural Equipment Division, Chief Financial Officer of the company and
President and Chief Operating Officer of Deere Credit, Inc.    Mr. Lane s tenure as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Deere   Company and as a
senior executive in several of its business units provides him with valuable business, leadership and management experience, including experience leading a large, complex organization with global operations. This background gives him a global
perspective that positions him well to advise the Board and senior management on implementing the Company s growth strategies. Mr. Lane also brings to the Board an extensive background in manufacturing, marketing, operations and finance.
   Mr. Lane has served as a Director of Verizon since 2004 and is a member of the Finance Committee. He is also a director of General Electric Company (since
2005) and Northern Trust Corporation (since 2009) and a member of the supervisory board of BMW AG (since 2009). In the past five years, Mr. Lane has served on the board of Deere   Company as its Chairman.  
      13  

LOWELL C. MCADAM   
   Mr. McAdam, 59, is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. Mr. McAdam became Chief Executive
Officer on August 1, 2011 and Chairman on January 1, 2012. From October 2010 until becoming Chief Executive Officer, Mr. McAdam served as President and Chief Operating Officer and had responsibility for the operations of the
Company s network-based businesses Verizon Wireless and Verizon Telecom and Business as well as Verizon s shared services operations. Prior to assuming this role, Mr. McAdam held key executive positions at Verizon Wireless
from its inception in 2000 and was instrumental in building Verizon Wireless into an industry-leading wireless provider. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Verizon Wireless from 2007 until 2010, and before that served as the
company s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Before the formation of Verizon Wireless, Mr. McAdam held executive positions with PrimeCo Personal Communications, a joint venture owned by Bell Atlantic and Vodafone
AirTouch, AirTouch Communications and Pacific Bell.    Mr. McAdam brings to the Board a unique understanding of our strategies and operations through his broad
experience in the telecommunications industry and his pivotal role in the development of Verizon Wireless. Mr. McAdam serves a key leadership role on the Board, providing the Board with an in-depth knowledge of the Company s business,
industry, challenges and opportunities. His extensive leadership experience enables Mr. McAdam to play a key role in all matters involving our Board and positions him well to act not only as the Board s Chairman, but also as the principal
intermediary between management and the independent members of our Board.    Mr. McAdam has served as a Director of Verizon since 2011. Mr. McAdam has been a
member of the Board of Representatives of Verizon Wireless since 2003 and has served as its Chairman since 2010.      

DONALD T. NICOLAISEN   
   Mr. Nicolaisen, 69, was Chief Accountant of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from 2003 to 2005. In that role,
Mr. Nicolaisen was responsible for establishing and enforcing accounting and auditing policy applicable to all U.S. reporting companies and for improving the professional performance of public company auditors. Prior to joining the SEC, he was
a Partner in PricewaterhouseCoopers and its predecessors, which he joined in 1967. At PricewaterhouseCoopers, Mr. Nicolaisen served on the firm s global and international boards, led the firm s national office for accounting and SEC
services from 1988 to 1994, led the firm s financial services practice, and was responsible for auditing and providing risk management advice to large, complex multinational firms.  
 Mr. Nicolaisen brings to the Board a range of experience in leadership positions in both the public and private sector. His extensive experience as Chief Accountant
at the SEC, an outside strategic advisor to multinational companies and a senior leader of one of the world s largest accounting firms enables him to advise the Board and senior management on accounting matters, government relations and public
policy. Mr. Nicolaisen s unique financial and accounting background also provides financial expertise to the Board, including an in-depth understanding of risk management, corporate finance and accounting, as well as the numerous issues
facing a public reporting company.    Mr. Nicolaisen has served as a Director of Verizon since 2005 and is Chairperson of the Audit Committee and a member of the
Corporate Governance and Policy Committee. He is also a director of MGIC Investment Corporation (since 2006), Morgan Stanley (since 2006) and Zurich Insurance Group (since 2006).  
   
      14  

CLARENCE OTIS, JR.   
   Mr. Otis, 57, has been Chairman of Darden Restaurants, Inc., a restaurant holding company, since 2005 and Chief Executive Officer
since 2004. Darden Restaurants is the largest company-owned and operated full-service restaurant company in the world. As of May 26, 2013, the company s 206,000 employees operated 2,138 restaurants in the United States and Canada and
generated fiscal 2013 sales of $8.5 billion. Mr. Otis joined Darden in 1995 as Vice President and Treasurer and held positions of increasing responsibility, including serving as Chief Financial Officer from 1999 until 2002, Executive Vice
President from 2002 to 2004 and President of Smokey Bones Barbeque   Grill, a restaurant concept formerly owned and operated by Darden Restaurants, from 2002 to 2004. In addition, Mr. Otis has served as a class B director of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta since 2010. In that role, he contributes to the formulation of monetary policy, oversight of the bank s operational risk management and the review and appointment of senior management of the bank.  
 Mr. Otis brings to the Board, among other skills and qualifications, a broad background in consumer services, retail operations and finance, which are critical
areas for Verizon. He has extensive business, leadership and management experience. Mr. Otis leads a complex organization with a large, diverse workforce, which gives him a thorough understanding of many of the operational challenges Verizon
faces. In addition, as a result of his experience at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Mr. Otis is positioned well to advise the Board and senior management on risk management, which is an important area for a large, complex organization
like Verizon.    Mr. Otis has served as a Director of Verizon since 2006 and is a member of the Audit Committee, the Finance Committee and the Human Resources
Committee. He is also a director of VF Corporation (since 2004).      

RODNEY E. SLATER   
   Mr. Slater, 59, is a partner at the law firm Patton Boggs LLP, focusing his practice in the areas of transportation and
infrastructure and public policy. Prior to joining Patton Boggs, from February 1997 to January 2001, Mr. Slater was the U.S. Secretary of Transportation. In that position, Mr. Slater was responsible for overseeing national transportation
policy, encouraging intermodal transportation, negotiating international transportation agreements and assuring the fitness of U.S. airlines. Prior to his appointment as Secretary of Transportation, from 1993 to 1997, Mr. Slater was the
Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, which provides financial and technical support for constructing, improving and preserving the U.S. highway system.  
 Mr. Slater s experience as the U.S. Secretary of Transportation and as the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration positions him well to provide
oversight to our Company, which operates in a highly regulated industry, and to advise the Board and senior management on logistics, strategic partnerships, government relations and public policy. Each of these areas is an important focus for
Verizon and has a fundamental impact on the way the Company operates. Mr. Slater also brings to the Board his experience guiding clients in developing infrastructure, as well as insights on the role of law in our business.  
 Mr. Slater has served as a Director of Verizon since 2010 and is a member of the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee. He is also a director of Kansas City
Southern (since 2001), Transurban Group (since 2009) and Atkins plc (since 2011). In the past five years, Mr. Slater has served as a director of Delta Air Lines, Inc. and ICx Technologies, Inc.  
   
      15  

KATHRYN A. TESIJA   
   Ms. Tesija, 51, is Executive Vice President, Merchandising and Supply Chain and a member of the Executive Committee of Target
Corporation, the second largest discount retailer in the United States with 1,782 stores, revenues of $70.0 billion and approximately 365,000 employees in fiscal 2012. In this role, which she has held since 2008, Ms. Tesija oversees all
merchandising functions, including product design and development, sourcing, inventory management, merchandising systems, presentation and operations as well as the company s global supply chain. Ms. Tesija joined Target in 1986 and was
appointed to numerous positions of increasing responsibility at the company, ranging from Director, Merchandise Planning to Senior Vice President, Hardlines Merchandising.  
 As a result of her long tenure at Target, Ms. Tesija has gained broad business and leadership experience. Along with her significant management skills,
Ms. Tesija brings to the Board an in-depth knowledge of the retail industry, expertise in leading the complex, large-scale, global retail functions of merchandising and supply chain and significant insight into consumer behavior, which give her
a thorough understanding of many important issues facing Verizon. Her extensive background positions Ms. Tesija well to advise the Verizon Board and senior management on implementing the Company s strategies.  
 Ms. Tesija has served as a Director of Verizon since December 2012 and is a member of the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee.  

GREGORY D. WASSON   
   Mr. Wasson, 55, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Walgreen Co., the nation s largest retail drugstore chain, which in
fiscal 2013 had $72.2 billion of net sales, 8,582 locations and 240,000 employees. In June 2012, Walgreens announced a strategic partnership with Alliance Boots, the leading pharmacy-led health and beauty group across Europe with a presence in more
than 25 countries. Mr. Wasson has served as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the board of directors of Walgreens since 2009. A registered pharmacist, he joined the company in 1980 and was appointed to positions of
increasing responsibility, including President of Walgreens Health Initiatives in 2002, Senior Vice President of Walgreens in 2004, Executive Vice President of Walgreens in 2005 and President and Chief Operating Officer of Walgreens in 2007.  
 As Chief Executive Officer of Walgreens, Mr. Wasson has gained valuable operational and management experience at a complex organization with a large, diverse
workforce and significant global operations, which gives him a thorough understanding of the challenges facing Verizon in implementing our growth strategies. Mr. Wasson brings to the Board an in-depth knowledge of the retail industry and
insight into the consumer experience. In addition, his extensive background in the healthcare industry positions Mr. Wasson well to advise the Board and senior management on an area of increasing importance to Verizon s evolving business
strategy.    Mr. Wasson has served as a Director of Verizon since March 2013 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Human Resources Committee.  
      16  

Ratification of Appointment of   
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
  (Item 2 on Proxy Card)     The Audit Committee of the Board
considered the performance and qualifications of Ernst   Young LLP, and has reappointed the independent registered public accounting firm to examine the financial statements of Verizon for the fiscal year 2014 and to examine the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Ernst   Young has been retained as Verizon s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm since 2000.  
 Verizon paid the following fees to Ernst   Young for services rendered during fiscal years 2013 and 2012:  
   
   Audit fees include the financial statement audit, the audit of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as financial statement audits required by statute for our foreign subsidiaries or by regulatory agencies in the United States. Audit-related fees primarily include audits of other
subsidiaries, employee benefit plan audits, reviews of controls over services provided to customers, as well as other audit and due diligence procedures performed in connection with acquisitions or dispositions. Tax fees primarily consist of
federal, state, local and international tax planning and compliance. All other fees primarily consist of support services to certain Verizon expatriate employees. The Committee considered, in consultation with management and the independent
registered public accounting firm, whether the provision of these services is compatible with maintaining the independence of Ernst   Young.    The Committee
is directly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the independent registered public accounting firm retained to perform audit services. In order to assure continuing auditor independence, the Committee
periodically considers whether there should be a regular rotation of the independent registered public accounting firm. The Committee ensures that the mandated rotation of the independent registered public accounting firm s personnel occurs
routinely and is directly involved in the selection of Ernst   Young s lead engagement partner.    The Committee has established policies and procedures
regarding pre-approval of services provided by the independent registered public accounting firm and is responsible for the audit fee negotiations associated with the engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm. At the beginning
of the fiscal year, the Committee pre-approves the engagement of the independent registered public accounting firm to provide audit services based on fee estimates. The Committee also pre-approves proposed audit-related services, tax services and
other permissible services, based on specified project and service details, fee estimates, and aggregate fee limits for each service category. The Committee receives a report at each meeting on the status of services provided or to be provided by
the independent registered public accounting firm and the related fees and all fees are approved.    The affirmative vote of a majority of the shares cast at the
annual meeting is required to ratify the reappointment of Ernst   Young for the 2014 fiscal year. The Committee believes that the continued retention of Ernst   Young to serve as Verizon s independent registered public
accounting firm is in the best interests of Verizon and its shareholders. If this appointment is not ratified by the shareholders, the Committee will reconsider its decision.  
 One or more representatives of Ernst   Young will be at the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. They will have an opportunity to make a statement and will be
available to respond to appropriate questions.     The Board of Directors recommends that you vote FOR ratification.   
      17  

Compensation Committee Report   
 The Human Resources Committee has reviewed and discussed the Compensation Discussion and Analysis with management. Based on such review and discussions, the Committee
recommended to the Board of Directors, and the Board has approved, the inclusion of the Compensation Discussion and Analysis in this proxy statement and the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
 Respectfully submitted,    Human Resources Committee  
  Joseph Neubauer, Chairperson      Richard
Carri n      Melanie Healey      M.
Frances Keeth      Clarence Otis, Jr.   
  Gregory Wasson     Dated: February 25, 2014  
    Compensation Discussion and Analysis   
 The Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the development and implementation of the total compensation program for Verizon s named executive
officers. Throughout this discussion and analysis of compensation, we refer to the Board of Directors as the Board and the Human Resources Committee as the Committee.  
 For 2013, Verizon s named executive officers were:      

Lowell C. McAdam  
      
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  
 
   Daniel S. Mead  
      
 Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer   Verizon Wireless  
 
   Francis J. Shammo  
      
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  
 
   John G. Stratton  
      
 Executive Vice President and President   Verizon Enterprise Solutions  
 
   Randal S. Milch  
      
 Executive Vice President   Public Policy and General Counsel  
    Executive Summary   
     Verizon s strategy is to build on the strength of our
network as a platform for future growth and innovation. To that end, in 2013 we focused on the growing areas of our business   mobility, broadband, video, cloud services and security. We also passed a strategic milestone, entering into a
transaction that would give us sole ownership of Verizon Wireless, which we expect to enable us to better leverage our assets and capabilities across our business going forward. Under the leadership of our management team, our solid execution on our
strategic initiatives and our disciplined focus on our financial objectives delivered strong results in 2013. These included:      

1   
 A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures can be found in Appendix C to this proxy statement.    
 As discussed in greater detail below, based on Verizon s strong financial performance in 2013 and total shareholder return over the past three years, the 2013
short-term incentive award was paid at 110% of its targeted level and the performance stock units granted in connection with the 2011-2013 long-term incentive award vested at the 100% level.  
      31  

Summary of Executive Compensation Program and Practices   
 Our commitment to adopting industry-leading compensation and governance practices is reflected in the design of our compensation program. Some of these elements include:

Pay-for-Performance   
     
   Approximately 90% of our named executive officers  annual total compensation opportunity is variable, at risk and incentive-based. The primary
components of our executive compensation program and their approximate percentage of the total compensation opportunity are as follows:     
         90% variable, incentive-based pay   comprised of an annual cash incentive
based on achievement of pre-established performance goals and a long-term incentive in the form of an equity-based award that vests after three years and is composed of PSUs and RSUs 
             10% fixed
pay   annual cash base salary       

In addition, the compensation program does not include other forms of fixed,  non-performance  related pay,
such as guaranteed pension and supplemental retirement benefits       
 
    Benchmarking Total Compensation   
     
   The Committee benchmarks each executive s total compensation opportunity against a single peer group, referred to as the Related Dow Peers and
described beginning on page 32 and in Appendix B. The Committee references the 50 th  percentile of the Related Dow Peers for total compensation opportunity, with further consideration given to the
tenure and overall level of responsibility of a particular executive.       
 
    Evaluation of Potential Linkage between Compensation and Risk Taking   
     
   When reviewing the compensation program and the performance metrics used under the program, the Committee considers the impact of the compensation
program on the Company s risk profile. The Committee believes that Verizon s compensation program has been structured to provide strong incentives for executives to appropriately balance risk and reward consistent with the Company s
enterprise business risk management efforts.       
 
    Shareholder Outreach Program   
     
 At the request of the Committee, management and the Committee s compensation consultant, Pearl Meyer   Partners (the Consultant), engage in a semiannual shareholder outreach program with certain institutional investors
to discuss the design and operation of Verizon s executive compensation program. Management and the Consultant provide a report to the Committee on the results of that outreach. The Committee believes this program provides opportunities for
shareholders to provide input on Verizon s executive compensation program and policies in addition to the annual say-on-pay vote.  
    The Role of Shareholder Say-on-Pay Votes and Shareholder Outreach   
     The Company provides its shareholders with the opportunity to
cast an annual advisory vote on executive compensation (say-on-pay). At the Company s Annual Meeting of Shareholders held in May 2013, approximately 89% of the votes cast on the say-on-pay proposal were voted in favor of the proposal. The
Committee considered this vote as demonstrating strong shareholder support for the Company s executive compensation programs.    Based on the shareholders 
strong support for the Company s say-on-pay proposal in 2013 as well as in each of the preceding years that a say-on-pay vote has been held and the discussions with the Company s investors during the semiannual shareholder outreach program
described above, the Company continued to apply the same effective principles and philosophies highlighted above and described more fully below that have been applied in prior years when making compensation decisions for 2013.  
  Role of Benchmarking and Peer Group Selection       
 The Committee believes that it is appropriate to use the same peer group to benchmark executive pay opportunities and to evaluate Verizon s relative stock
performance under its long-term incentive plan. For this  
      32  

purpose, the Committee uses a single peer group that includes the 29 companies (other than Verizon) in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, plus Verizon s four largest industry competitors that
are not included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. This group is referred to as the Related Dow Peers. The Committee believes that this group of companies, comprised of similarly-sized companies based on market capitalization, net income, revenue
and total employees that are included in an established and recognizable index, as well as Verizon s four other largest industry competitors, is appropriate for the dual purpose of benchmarking executive pay opportunities and evaluating
relative stock performance under the long-term incentive plan because the companies in the Related Dow Peers represent Verizon s primary competitors for executive talent and investor dollars. Moreover, this peer group is self-adjusting so that
changes in the companies included in the Dow Jones Industrial Average are also reflected in the Related Dow Peers over time. For this reason, the Committee believes that the Related Dow Peers provides a consistent measure of Verizon s
performance and makes it easier for shareholders to evaluate, monitor and understand Verizon s compensation program.    To determine whether the compensation
opportunities for executives are appropriate and competitive, the Committee compares each named executive officer s total compensation opportunity   which represents the aggregate total amount of the executive s base salary and target
award amounts under the short-term and long-term incentive plans   to the total compensation opportunities for executives in comparable positions at peer companies. The Committee generally references the 50 th  percentile of the Related Dow Peers for total compensation opportunity, although the total compensation opportunity may be above or below the
50 th  percentile depending upon the tenure and overall level of responsibility of a particular executive. The Committee believes that this is an appropriate targeted level of total compensation
opportunity because of Verizon s emphasis on performance-based incentive pay and Verizon s size relative to the Related Dow Peers. Actual total compensation may fall above or below the targeted percentile based on annual and long-term
performance results.    Appendix B to this proxy statement includes a chart that lists the companies included in the Related Dow Peers for 2013 compensation purposes,
their market capitalization as of December 31, 2013, as reported by Bloomberg, and their net income attributable to the company, revenue and total number of employees, as of each company s most recent fiscal year-end as reported in SEC
filings.     Compensation Objectives and Elements of Compensation   
      Compensation Objectives   
 Verizon s compensation program is designed to:      

Align executives  and shareholders  interests through the use of performance-based compensation; and    

Attract, retain and motivate high-performing executives.      To promote a performance-based culture that further links the
interests of management and shareholders, the Committee has developed a compensation program that:      

focuses extensively on variable, performance-based compensation, with fixed compensation in the form of base salary constituting only approximately 10% of each executive s total compensation
opportunity; and    

does not include such fixed compensation elements as guaranteed defined benefit pension and supplemental pension benefits.    
 In establishing the mix of incentive pay used in the Company s pay-for-performance program, the Committee balances the importance of meeting the Company s
short-term business goals with the need to create shareholder value over the longer term. To help ensure that the interests of executives remain closely aligned with the interests of shareholders, target long-term compensation opportunities
represent more than twice the target compensation opportunities related to short-term performance.    Additionally, the Company s compensation program features
three-year long-term incentive awards, including PSUs subject to both performance-based and time-based vesting requirements and, to encourage high-performing executives to remain with the Company, RSUs that vest based on the executive s
continued employment through the end of the three-year performance cycle.  
      33  

Elements of Compensation     In
setting total compensation at competitive levels, the Committee determines the appropriate balance between:      

Fixed and variable pay elements;    

Short- and long-term pay elements; and    

Cash and equity-based pay elements.      The following table illustrates the principal elements of Verizon s executive
compensation program:      

Pay Element  
     
  Characteristics  
     
  Primary Objective   

Base salary  
     
 Annual fixed cash compensation 
     
   Attract and compensate high-performing and experienced executives 

Short-term incentive opportunity (STI)  
     
   Annual variable cash compensation based on the achievement of annual performance measures 

Incentivize executives to achieve challenging short-term performance goals  
 
   Long-term incentive opportunity (LTI)  
     
 Long-term variable equity awards granted annually as a combination of PSUs and RSUs 
     
 Align executives  interests with those of shareholders to grow long-term value and retain executives  
   As discussed above, the Committee references the 50 th  percentile of the Related Dow
Peers to benchmark the total compensation opportunity of each of our named executive officers. However, the Committee does not benchmark each element of a named executive officer s total compensation opportunity. Instead, consistent with the
Committee s emphasis on a performance-based culture, the Committee has determined that a substantial majority of each named executive officer s total compensation opportunity should be variable and performance-based. Accordingly, the
Committee determined in its business judgment to allocate approximately 10% of each executive s total compensation opportunity in the form of base salary, approximately 15% to 25% in the form of short-term incentive, and approximately 65% to
75% in the form of long-term incentive.    The following chart illustrates the approximate allocation of the named executive officers  total compensation
opportunity for 2013 between elements that are variable, performance-based and fixed pay:        

The named executive officers are also eligible to receive medical, disability and savings plan benefits that are generally provided to
all management employees, as well as certain other benefits that are described under  Other Elements of the Total Compensation Program  beginning on page 40.  
      34  

2013 Annual Base Salary   
     To determine an executive s base salary, the Committee,
in consultation with the Consultant, reviews the competitive pay practices of the Related Dow Peers for comparable positions and considers the scope of the executive s responsibility and experience. In particular, the Committee focuses on how
base salary levels may impact the market competitiveness of an executive s total compensation opportunity. The Committee also discusses its assessment of the other named executive officers with the CEO. Based on its assessment, the Committee
approved a base salary increase in 2013 of 12.5% for Mr. Mead, 10.7% for Mr. Shammo, 7.4% for Mr. Stratton and 3.1% for Mr. Milch. The base salary levels of the named executive officers were adjusted with the goal of providing a
total compensation opportunity that more closely approximates the 50 th  percentile for comparable executives within the Related Dow Peers, with approximately 10% of each named executive
officer s total compensation opportunity provided in the form of base salary. In 2013 the independent members of the Board approved an increase of 7.1% for Mr. McAdam. This is the first base salary increase that Mr. McAdam has
received since 2010 when he was promoted to the position of President and Chief Operating Officer of Verizon.     2013 Short-Term Incentive Compensation   
     The Verizon Short-Term Incentive Plan, which is referred to
as the Short-Term Plan, motivates executives to achieve challenging short-term performance goals. Each year, the Committee establishes the potential value of the opportunities under the Short-Term Plan, as well as the performance targets required to
achieve these opportunities.    The Committee sets the values of the Short-Term Plan award opportunities as a percentage of an executive s base salary. The
applicable percentage for each named executive officer is based on the scope of the executive s responsibilities and on the competitive pay practices of the Related Dow Peers. These award opportunities are established at threshold, target and
maximum levels. The Short-Term Plan award opportunities at the threshold, target and maximum levels for each of the named executive officers are shown in the Grants of Plan-Based Awards table on page 46.  
 The following chart shows the 2013 Short-Term Plan target award opportunity for each of the named executive officers:  
   
   The 2013 target award opportunities for our named executive officers, expressed as a percentage of base salary, did not increase from the
target levels established for their 2012 award opportunities. Whether, and the extent to which, the named executive officers earn the targeted Short-Term Plan award is determined based on whether Verizon achieves performance measures established by
the Committee at the beginning of the year.  
      35  

Determination of Annual Performance Measures   
 The Committee reviews and establishes the performance measures for the Short-Term Plan on an annual basis to help ensure that the program design appropriately motivates
executives to achieve challenging financial and operational performance goals. In the first quarter of 2013, the Committee reviewed and approved the following annual financial and operating performance measures for all corporate executives,
including the named executive officers, and ascribed to each the weighting shown below as the percentage of the total Short-Term Plan award opportunity at target level performance.  

Consistent with 2012, the Committee based the Short-Term Plan award opportunities for all corporate executives, including the named
executive officers, primarily on three Company-wide financial performance measures, as determined by specific goals for adjusted EPS, revenue and free cash flow. These three measures were selected to reflect the Company s strategic goals of
encouraging profitable operations, overall growth in the Company and efficient use of capital. The Committee believes that these performance measures are appropriate to incentivize the Company s executives to achieve outstanding short-term
results and, at the same time, help build long-term value for shareholders.      Adjusted EPS.    The Committee also views adjusted EPS as an
important indicator of Verizon s success. The Committee assigns the greatest weight to adjusted EPS in determining awards under the Short-Term Plan, because it is broadly used and recognized by investors as a significant indicator of
Verizon s ongoing operational performance and is a clearly defined indicator of the Company s profitability. Adjusted EPS excludes non-recurring and non-operational items, including but not limited to impairments and gains and losses from
discontinued operations, business combinations, changes in accounting principles, the net impact of pension and post-retirement benefit costs, extraordinary items and restructurings. As a result, adjusted EPS is not positively or negatively impacted
from period to period by these types of items, so the Committee believes it better reflects the relative success of the Company s ongoing business.  
   Revenue.    The Committee also views achievement of consolidated total revenue goals as an important indicator of the Company s growth and
success in managing its capital investments. This measure also reflects the level of penetration of Verizon s products and services in key markets.      Free
Cash Flow.    The Committee views consolidated free cash flow as another important indicator of Verizon s success in delivering shareholder value, because investors often consider free cash flow as part of their equity valuation
models. Free cash flow is determined by subtracting capital expenditures from cash flow from operations. The Committee believes that this type of cash flow measure is relevant for Verizon because Verizon s businesses require significant capital
investment, and the level of free cash flow reflects how efficiently a business is managing its capital expenditures. Free cash flow also provides an indication of the amount of cash that the Company has available to return to shareholders in the
form of dividends and to reduce its outstanding debt, both of which we consider to be important goals.  
      36  

Diversity.    The Company is committed to promoting diversity among its employees and to recognizing
and encouraging the contribution of diverse business partners to the Company s success. To reflect that important commitment, the 2013 performance measures also include a diversity measure. For 2013, the Committee determined that the diversity
target would be measured for these purposes by the percentage of new hires and promotions at and above the manager level consisting of minority and female candidates and the levels of supplier spending at the corporate level with minority- and
female-owned or operated firms.    The value of the Short-Term Plan award opportunity with respect to each performance measure varies depending on the Committee s
assessment of the Company s performance with respect to that measure. The Committee also has the discretion to modify awards based on other factors that it deems appropriate.  
 In addition, under the Short-Term Plan no awards may be paid if Verizon s return on equity for the plan year, calculated based on adjusted net income (ROE), does
not exceed 8%, even if some or all of the other performance measures are achieved.     2013 Annual Performance Measures   
 The 2013 annual performance measures for all corporate executives, including the named executive officers, were:  

A consolidated free cash flow target range of $20.8 billion to $22.4 billion; and    

A diversity target of (i) having 50% of new hires and promotions at and above the manager level consist of minority and female candidates, and (ii) directing at least 10% of the overall supplier spending at
the corporate level to minority- and female-owned or operated firms.       2013 Company Results and Annual Performance Awards  
 In 2013, Verizon reported generally strong results. Verizon s 2013 results 1  included:  

Adjusted EPS of $2.84, which exceeded the target range;    

Consolidated total revenue of $120.6 billion, which was just below the target range;    

Consolidated free cash flow of $22.2 billion, which was within the target range; and    

Diversity in new hires and promotions above target performance and supplier spending above target performance.      After
considering the level of performance with respect to each performance measure, and applying its business judgment based on its assessment of the level of achievement of each goal individually and collectively, the Committee and, for Mr. McAdam,
the independent members of the Board, determine the final Short-Term Plan awards at a percentage of the target level for all participants. For 2013, the payout percentage was determined to be 110% of the target level for all corporate executives.
The following table shows the amount of the Short-Term Plan awards paid to each named executive officer.      

1   
 A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found in Appendix C to this proxy statement.    
      37  

Long-Term Incentive Compensation   
     The Verizon Long-Term Incentive Plan, which is referred to
as the Long-Term Plan, is intended to reward participants for the creation of long-term shareholder value over a three-year period and further link executives  interests to shareholders  interests. In considering the appropriate duration
of the performance cycle under the Long-Term Plan, the Committee believes that it is important to establish a period that is longer than one year in order to meaningfully evaluate the performance of long-term strategies and the effect on value
created for shareholders. Based on this consideration, the Committee determined that a three-year performance cycle for the Long-Term Plan awards was appropriate.  
 Consistent with the three prior award cycles, the 2013 PSUs are payable in cash and the 2013 RSUs are payable in Verizon shares. The Committee believes that paying PSUs
in cash and RSUs in shares creates an appropriate balance between the potential shareholder dilution from paying awards in shares and cash flow considerations, and that both types of awards further align executives  interests with those of
Verizon s shareholders as the ultimate values of the awards are based on the value of Verizon s common stock. In addition, paying the 2013 RSU awards in shares is consistent with Verizon s policy of requiring a significant level of
equity ownership by our named executive officers.    The value of each PSU is equal to the value of one share of Verizon common stock and accrues dividend equivalents
that are deemed to be reinvested in PSUs. The dividend equivalents are only paid to the extent that PSUs are vested and earned. The Committee determines an executive s total compensation opportunity by assuming that he or she will earn 100% of
the PSUs initially awarded in any performance cycle. However, the number of PSUs that are actually earned and paid is determined based on Verizon s achievement of the pre-established performance goals over the three-year performance cycle. The
final value of each PSU is based on the closing price of Verizon s common stock on the last trading day of the year that the performance cycle ends. As a result, awarding PSUs provides a strong incentive to executives to deliver value to
Verizon s shareholders.    On the date the long-term incentive is awarded, the Committee also establishes the number of RSUs that may be earned based on the
executive s continued employment with the Company through the end of the three-year award cycle as reflected in the award agreement. The value of each RSU is equal to the value of one share of Verizon common stock and accrues dividend
equivalents that are deemed to be reinvested in RSUs. The dividend equivalents are only paid to the extent that the RSUs vest. The 2013 RSU awards are payable in shares at the end of the three-year award cycle and provide both a retention incentive
and a performance incentive as the value of the award depends on Verizon s stock price. The Committee determines an executive s total compensation opportunity by assuming he or she will earn 100% of the RSUs awarded.  
  2013 Long-Term Plan Award Opportunities     Consistent with the 2012 awards, for
2013, each of the named executive officers received 60% of their 2013 Long-Term Plan award opportunity in the form of PSUs and 40% of their award opportunity in the form of RSUs. Two-thirds of the PSUs are eligible to vest based on Verizon s
relative TSR performance and one-third is eligible to vest based on Verizon s cumulative free cash flow. This allocation reflects the Committee s focus on encouraging both outstanding relative TSR performance and free cash flow creation
and the retention of the Company s highly-qualified executive team.    The Committee generally establishes an executive s Long-Term Plan target award
opportunity as a percentage of the executive s base salary. The Long-Term Plan target award opportunity for each of the named executive officers in 2013 was: 625% of base salary for Mr. McAdam, 525% of base salary for Messrs. Mead, Shammo
and Stratton and 500% of base salary for Mr. Milch. The target award opportunities for the named executive officers increased over their 2012 target award opportunities solely as a result of their base salary increases identified above
( i.e.,  their target award opportunities, expressed as a percentage of their base salaries, did not change). The Committee determined that these award levels were appropriate so that each executive s target annual Long-Term Plan award
opportunity would constitute a significant portion of the executive s benchmarked total compensation opportunity consistent with the objectives of the Company s pay-for-performance program. The target award opportunity for an executive is
allocated between PSUs and RSUs as noted above, and the target award opportunity allocated to each type of award is converted into a target number of shares using the closing price of Verizon s common stock on the grant date.  
      38  

The following table shows the target value of the awards granted to the named executive officers during 2013 in connection
with the annual long-term incentive compensation opportunity. Additional detail regarding the 2013 PSU awards, including the performance requirements, follows the table.      
    Terms of 2013 PSU Awards     Two-thirds of the
number of PSUs awarded are eligible to vest based on Verizon s TSR as compared to the TSRs of the companies in the Related Dow Peers, as constituted on the grant date of the award, over the 2013-2015 performance cycle. One-third of the number
of PSUs awarded is eligible to vest based on Verizon s cumulative free cash flow over the 2013-2015 performance cycle compared against the performance targets established by the Committee at the beginning of the performance cycle.  
   TSR Metric.   With respect to PSUs that vest based on relative TSR performance (TSR PSUs), the following chart shows the percentage of the TSR PSUs awarded
for the 2013-2015 performance cycle that will vest based on Verizon s relative TSR positioning compared with the companies in the Related Dow Peers:      

Verizon s TSR during the three-year performance cycle must rank at least
15 th , or at the 58 th  percentile, among the Related Dow Peers in order for 100% of the target number of TSR PSUs to vest. Similarly, the maximum
number of TSR PSUs (200% of target) will vest only if Verizon s TSR during the three-year performance cycle ranks among the top four companies in the Related Dow Peers, which corresponds to the
91 st  percentile or higher. If Verizon s TSR during the three-year performance cycle ranks below 25 th , or below approximately the 27 th  percentile of the companies in the Related Dow Peers, none of the TSR PSUs will vest.      Free Cash Flow
Metric.   The percentage of PSUs awarded for the 2013-2015 performance cycle that will vest based on Verizon s cumulative free cash flow (FCF) (referred to as FCF PSUs) will be determined based on the extent to which Verizon s
cumulative FCF over the performance cycle meets or exceeds the cumulative FCF  
      39  

performance levels that were established by the Committee at the beginning of the performance cycle. FCF is determined by subtracting capital expenditures from cash flow from operations, and is
subject to adjustment to eliminate the financial impact of significant transactions, changes in legal or regulatory policy and other extraordinary items.    At the end
of the performance cycle, the number of FCF PSUs that will vest, if any, will be determined by comparing the actual performance of the Company against the performance objectives. The cumulative FCF target for the 2013-2015 performance cycle was set
at a level that the Committee believes may be challenging in light of the economic environment, but attainable. The number of FCF PSUs that will vest will range from 0% if performance is below the threshold cumulative FCF level and up to 200% for
performance at or above the maximum cumulative FCF level. The number of FCF PSUs that will vest in between threshold and maximum performance levels will be determined by linear interpolation between vesting percentage levels.  
  2011 PSU Awards Earned in 2013     With respect to the PSUs awarded in 2011, the
Committee determined the number of PSUs that vested for a participant based on Verizon s TSR for the 2011-2013 three-year performance cycle relative to the TSRs of the Related Dow Peers as constituted on the date the award was granted. The
following table shows the percentage of PSUs awarded for the 2011-2013 performance cycle that could vest based on a range of Verizon s relative TSR positioning compared with the companies in the applicable Related Dow Peers.  
   
   Over the three-year performance cycle ending on December 31, 2013, Verizon s TSR ranked 13 th , or at the 64 th  percentile, when compared to the Related Dow Peers. As a result of this achievement, in early 2014 the Committee approved a
payment to all participants, including the named executive officers, of 100% of the number of PSUs awarded for the 2011-2013 performance cycle, plus dividend equivalents credited on those PSUs that vested pursuant to the terms of the award. As a
result, even though the Company achieved performance at the 64 th  percentile of the Related Dow Peers, the named executive officers only received the target number of PSUs granted, plus dividend
equivalents.     Other Elements of the Total Compensation Program   
     The Company also provides the named executive officers with
certain limited personal benefits as generally described below. None of the named executive officers is eligible for any tax gross-up payment in connection with any of these benefits, including with respect to the excise tax liability under Internal
Revenue Code Section 4999 related to any Section 280G excess parachute payments.     Transportation   
 The Company provides certain aircraft and ground transportation benefits to enhance the safety and security of certain named executive officers. These transportation
benefits, even when classified as a perquisite under applicable SEC rules, also serve business purposes as they frequently enhance the ability of the executive to attend to business matters while in transit. Additional information on
Company-provided transportation is included in footnote 4 to the Summary Compensation Table on page 45.  
      40  

Executive Life Insurance     The
Company offers the named executive officers and other executives the opportunity to participate in an executive life insurance program in lieu of participation in the Company s basic and supplemental life insurance programs. The executives who
elect to participate in the executive life insurance program own the life insurance policy, and the Company provides an annual cash payment to the executives to defray a portion of the annual premiums. Additional information on this program is
provided in footnote 4 to the Summary Compensation Table on page 45.     Financial Planning   
 The Company provides a voluntary Company-sponsored financial planning benefit program for the named executive officers and other executives. Additional information on
this program is provided in footnote 4 to the Summary Compensation Table on page 45.     Retirement Benefits   
 In 2006, the Committee determined that guaranteed pay in the form of pension and supplemental executive retirement benefits was not consistent with the Company s
pay-for-performance culture. Accordingly, effective June 30, 2006, Verizon froze all future pension accruals under its management tax-qualified and supplemental defined benefit retirement plans. These legacy retirement benefits that were
previously provided to Verizon s named executive officers are described in more detail under the section titled  Pension Plans  beginning on page 48.  
 During 2013, all of Verizon s named executive officers were eligible to participate in the Company s tax-qualified and nonqualified retirement savings plans.
These plans are described in the section titled  Defined Contribution Savings Plans  beginning on page 50.     Severance and Change in Control Benefits
    The Committee believes that maintaining a competitive level of separation benefits is appropriate as part of an overall program designed to attract, retain and
motivate the highest quality management team. However, the Committee does not believe that named executive officers should be entitled to receive cash severance benefits merely because a change in control transaction occurs. Therefore, the payment
of cash severance benefits is triggered only by an actual or constructive termination of employment.    The Company was not a party to an employment agreement with any
of the named executive officers in 2013. All senior managers of the Company (including each of the named executive officers other than Mr. McAdam) are eligible to participate in the Verizon Senior Manager Severance Plan, which provides certain
separation benefits to participants whose employment is involuntarily terminated without cause from the Company. Mr. McAdam is not eligible to participate in the Senior Manager Severance Plan and is not eligible for cash severance benefits upon
a termination.    The Senior Manager Severance Plan is generally consistent with the terms and conditions of Verizon s broad-based severance plan that is provided
to substantially all of Verizon s management employees other than senior managers. Under the Senior Manager Severance Plan, if a participant has been involuntarily terminated without cause or, in the case of a named executive officer, if the
independent members of the Board determine that there has been a qualifying separation ,  the participant is eligible to receive a lump-sum cash separation payment equal to a multiple of his or her base salary and target short-term incentive
opportunity, along with continuing medical coverage for the applicable severance period. To the extent that a senior manager is eligible for severance benefits under any other arrangement, that person will not be eligible for any duplicative
benefits under the severance plan. The plan does not provide for any severance benefits based upon a change in control of the Company.    Under the plan, the named
executive officers (other than Mr. McAdam) are eligible to receive a cash separation payment based on a formula equal to two times the sum of their base salary and target short-term incentive opportunity. Other senior manager participants are
eligible to receive a cash separation payment based on a formula equal to between 0.75 and two times their base salary and target short-term incentive opportunity depending on their position at the time of their separation from employment. In order
to be eligible for any severance benefits, participants must execute a release satisfactory to Verizon and agree not to compete or interfere with any Verizon business for a period of one year after their separation from employment.  
      41  

Consistent with the Committee s belief that named executive officers should not be entitled to receive cash severance
benefits merely because a change in control transaction occurs, the Long-Term Plan does not allow  single trigger  accelerated vesting and payment of outstanding awards in connection with a change in control of Verizon. Under the Long-Term
Plan, if, in the twelve months following a change in control the participant s employment is terminated without cause, all then-unvested PSUs will fully vest at the target level performance, all then-unvested RSUs will fully vest and PSUs and
RSUs (including accrued dividend equivalents) will become payable on the regularly scheduled payment date after the end of the applicable award cycle.     Selected
Compensation Policies          Stock Ownership Guidelines
    To further align the interests of Verizon s management with those of its shareholders, the Committee has approved guidelines that require each named
executive officer and other executives to maintain certain stock ownership levels.      

The guidelines require the CEO to maintain share ownership equal to at least seven times his base salary and require the other named executive officers to maintain share ownership equal to at least four times their base
salaries.    

Executives are also prohibited from short-selling or engaging in any financial activity where they would benefit from a decline in Verizon s stock price.    
 In determining whether an executive meets the required ownership level, the calculation includes any shares held by the executive directly or through a broker, shares
held through the Verizon tax-qualified savings plan or the Verizon nonqualified savings plan and other deferred compensation plans and arrangements that are valued by reference to Verizon s stock. The calculation does not include any unvested
PSUs or RSUs. Each of the named executive officers is in compliance with the stock ownership guidelines. None of the named executive officers has engaged in any pledging transaction with respect to shares of Verizon s stock.  
  Recovery of Incentive Payments     The Committee believes that it is appropriate
that the Company s compensation plans and agreements provide for the termination or repayment of certain incentive awards and payments if an executive engages in certain fraudulent or other inappropriate conduct. Accordingly, the Committee has
adopted a policy that enables the Company to claw back and cancel certain incentive payments received by an executive who has engaged in financial misconduct. The Committee reviews this policy from time to time and will refine the current policy to
take into account changes in applicable law, including, for example, any changes that may be required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010.  
  Shareholder Approval of Certain Severance Arrangements     The Committee has a
policy of seeking shareholder approval or ratification of any new employment agreement or severance agreement with an executive officer that provides for a total cash value severance payment exceeding 2.99 times the sum of the executive s base
salary plus Short-Term Plan incentive target opportunity. The policy defines severance pay broadly to include payments for any consulting services, payments to secure a non-compete agreement, payments to settle any litigation or claim, payments to
offset tax liabilities, payments or benefits that are not generally available to similarly-situated management employees and payments in excess of, or outside, the terms of a Company plan or policy.  
  Tax and Accounting Considerations       
 Federal income tax law generally prohibits publicly-held companies from deducting compensation paid to a named executive officer (other than a chief financial officer)
that exceeds $1 million during the tax year unless it is based upon attaining pre-established performance measures that are set by the Committee pursuant to a plan approved by the Company s shareholders. The Committee has the flexibility to
take any compensation-related actions that it determines are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders including determining when to request shareholder approval of the Verizon incentive plans and when to award compensation that may
not qualify for a tax deduction. The Committee considered the desirability of tax deductibility for performance-based executive compensation in determining to submit the Long-Term Plan to the shareholders for approval in 2013. Compensation paid to
the named executive officers under the Short-Term Plan, as well as the PSUs  
      42  

awarded under the Long-Term Plan, are generally intended to meet the performance-based exception for deductibility under the tax laws.  
 The Committee also considers the effect of certain accounting rules that apply to the various aspects of the compensation program available to the named executive
officers. The Committee reviews potential accounting effects in determining whether its compensation actions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The Committee has been advised by management that the impact of the variable
accounting treatment required for long-term incentive awards that are payable in cash (as opposed to fixed accounting treatment for awards that are payable in shares) will depend on future stock performance.  
  Committee Actions Taken After Fiscal Year 2013       
 On February 6, 2014, the Committee recommended, and the Board of Directors approved, compensation adjustments for Mr. McAdam, and the Committee approved
compensation adjustments for Messrs. Mead, Shammo, Stratton and Milch. In making these decisions, the Committee, and in the case of Mr. McAdam, the Board, noted that the changes reflect Verizon s commitment to emphasizing performance-based
incentive pay and compensating its executive officers at levels commensurate with Verizon s position in the market. For 2014, Mr. McAdam s target annual long-term incentive opportunity, expressed as a percentage of base salary, was
increased from 625% to 750%, and the target annual short-term incentive opportunity for each of the named executive officers other than Mr. McAdam, expressed as a percentage of base salary, was increased from 110% to 150%. The base salaries of
each of the named executive officers were increased as follows: for Mr. McAdam, 6.7%; for Mr. Mead, 5.6%; for Mr. Shammo, 6.5%; for Mr. Stratton, 10.3%; and for Mr. Milch, 8.2%. The base salary adjustments are effective
March 2, 2014. No change was made to Mr. McAdam s target annual short-term incentive opportunity, and no change was made to the target annual long-term incentive opportunities for any of the named executive officers other than
Mr. McAdam.  
      43  

Compensation Tables   
  Summary Compensation Table       

1   
 The amounts in this column reflect the grant date fair value of the PSUs and RSUs computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 based on the closing price of Verizon s common stock on the grant date. The grant
date fair value of PSUs granted to the named executive officers in the designated year as part of Verizon s annual long-term incentive award program and, in the case of Mr. McAdam, the special PSU award granted in 2011 in connection with
his appointment to CEO, has been determined based on the vesting of 100% of the nominal PSUs awarded, which is the performance threshold the Company believed was most likely to be achieved under the grants on the grant date. The following table
reflects the grant date fair value of these PSUs, as well as the maximum grant date fair value of these awards based on the closing price of Verizon s common stock on the grant date if, due to the Company s performance during the
applicable performance cycle, the PSUs vested at their maximum level:        

3   
 The amounts in this column for 2013 reflect the above-market earnings on amounts held in nonqualified deferred compensation plans. Messrs. Shammo and Stratton are not eligible for pension benefits. For Messrs. McAdam,
Mead and Milch, for 2013 there was a reduction in pension value of $233,803, $48,231 and $13,162, respectively, based on the applicable calculation formula. In accordance with SEC rules, because the aggregate change in the actuarial present value of
the accumulated benefit under the defined benefit plans was a negative number for 2013, the amounts shown in this column for 2013 for Messrs. McAdam, Mead and Milch reflect above-market earnings only. Verizon s defined benefit plans were frozen
as of June 30, 2006, and Verizon stopped all future benefit accruals under these plans as of that date. All accruals under the Verizon Wireless pension plan were frozen as of December 31, 2006.    
      44  

4   
 The following table provides the detail for 2013 compensation reported in the  All Other Compensation  column:        

a   
 The aggregate incremental cost of the personal use of a Company aircraft is determined by multiplying the total 2013 personal flight hours by the incremental aircraft cost per hour. The incremental aircraft cost per
hour is derived by adding the annual aircraft maintenance costs, fuel costs, aircraft trip expenses and crew trip expenses, and then dividing by the total annual flight hours.    

b   
 The aggregate incremental cost of the personal use of a Company vehicle is determined by (i) calculating the incremental vehicle cost per mile by dividing the annual lease and fuel costs by the total annual miles;
(ii) multiplying the total 2013 personal miles by the incremental vehicle cost per mile; and (iii) adding the incremental driver cost (the 2013 driver hours for personal use multiplied by the driver s hourly rate).    

c   
 Executive life insurance is available to executives on a voluntary basis. Executives who choose to participate in this program are excluded from the basic and supplemental life insurance programs that Verizon provides
to management employees. The executive owns the insurance policy and is responsible for paying the premiums. However, Verizon pays each executive an amount, which is shown in this column, that is equal to a portion of the premium. Executives who
choose not to participate in the executive life insurance plan do not receive that payment. For all named executive officers the executive life insurance policy provides a death benefit equal to two times the sum of the executive s base salary
plus his short-term incentive opportunity at 67% of target level if the executive dies before a designated date. For Messrs. McAdam, Mead, Shammo and Stratton, this date is the latest of the participant s retirement date, the date on which the
participant reaches age 60 or the fifth anniversary of plan participation. For Mr. Milch, this date is the earlier of five years post-retirement or the date on which he reaches age 65.    

d   
 This column represents the total amount of other perquisites and personal benefits provided. These other benefits consist of: (i) for Mr. McAdam, non-recurring expenses for home security; (ii) for
Mr. Mead, financial planning services and personal travel; and (iii) for Messrs. Shammo, Stratton and Milch, financial planning services. The Company provides each of the named executive officers who elect to participate in the financial
planning program with a financial planning benefit equal to the Company s payment for the services, up to $10,000. The aggregate incremental cost of personal travel for Mr. Mead is equal to the direct expense related to his spouse s
attendance at a business event at the request of the Company. These expenses include lodging, ground transportation, meals and other travel-related items.    

5   
 As described in footnote 1, this amount includes the grant date fair value of the special equity award granted to Mr. McAdam in 2011 in connection with his appointment to CEO, with 70% of the award opportunity in
the form of PSUs and 30% in the form of RSUs, which may become payable after the completion of the five-year performance cycle ending July 31, 2016, provided that Mr. McAdam remains continuously employed, subject to the terms of the award
agreements. The number of PSUs that will vest at the end of the five-year performance cycle will be determined based on Verizon s average annual ROE during the performance cycle, and to the extent the performance criteria is achieved, the final
award will include dividend equivalents that accrue on the vested portion of the award. No PSUs will vest unless Verizon s average annual ROE meets the minimum threshold of 10%. If Verizon s average annual ROE meets the target percentage
of 15%, 100% of the nominal number of the PSUs granted will vest. A maximum of two times the nominal number of PSUs granted will vest if Verizon s average annual ROE is at least 20%. If Verizon s average annual ROE during the five-year
performance cycle is greater than 10% but less than 15%, or is greater than 15% but less than 20%, the Committee will determine the extent to which the PSUs will vest, provided that the vested percentage must be between 50% and 100% and between 100%
and 200%, respectively. The award will be settled in shares of Verizon common stock, and Mr. McAdam will be required to hold any shares he receives for at least two years following the vesting date unless he dies or becomes disabled.
   
      45  

Plan-Based Awards   
     The following table provides information about the 2013
awards granted under the Short-Term Plan and the Long-Term Plan to each named executive officer.     Grants of Plan-Based Awards   

1   
 These awards are described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis on pages 34-39.    

3   
 These columns reflect the potential payout range of PSU awards granted in 2013 to our named executive officers in accordance with the Company s annual long-term incentive award program, as described on pages 38-40.
At the conclusion of the three-year performance cycle, payouts can range from 0% to 200% of the target number of units awarded based on Verizon s relative TSR position as compared with the Related Dow Peers and Verizon s cumulative free
cash flow over the three-year performance cycle as described in more detail on pages 38-40. PSUs and the applicable dividend equivalents are paid only and to the extent that the applicable performance criteria for the award are achieved at the end
of the award cycle. When dividends are distributed to shareholders, dividend equivalents are credited on the PSU awards in an amount equal to the dollar amount of dividends on the total number of PSUs credited as of the dividend distribution date
and divided by the fair market value of the Company s common stock on that date.    

4   
 This column reflects the RSU awards granted in 2013 to the named executive officers in accordance with the Company s annual long-term incentive award program. When dividends are distributed to shareholders,
dividend equivalents are credited on the RSU awards in an amount equal to the dollar amount of dividends on the total number of RSUs credited as of the dividend distribution date and divided by the fair market value of the Company s common
stock on that date.    

5   
 This column reflects the grant date fair value of each equity award computed in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 718 based on the closing price of Verizon s common stock on the grant date. For PSUs, the grant
date fair value has been determined based on the vesting of 100% of the nominal PSUs awarded, which is the performance threshold the Company believes is the most likely to be achieved under the grants.    
      46  

Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End   

2   
 This column represents the value of the RSU awards listed in column (g) based on a share price of $49.14, the closing price of Verizon s common stock on December 31, 2013.    

3   
 The annual 2012 and 2013 PSU awards vest on December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Mr. McAdam s 2011 special PSU award vests on July 31, 2016. PSUs accrue quarterly dividends
that are reinvested into the participant s account as additional PSUs. PSUs and the applicable dividend equivalents are paid if and to the extent that the applicable PSU award vests. As required by SEC rules, the number of units in this column
represents the 2012 PSU awards at a 119% vesting percentage, the 2013 PSU awards at a 78% vesting percentage, and Mr. McAdam s 2011 special PSU Award at a 200% vesting percentage, in each case including accrued dividend equivalents through
December 31, 2013 that will be paid to the executives if the awards vest at the indicated levels.    

4   
 This column represents the value of the PSU awards listed in column (i) based on a share price of $49.14, the closing price of Verizon s common stock on December 31, 2013.    
  Value Realized from Stock Options and Certain Stock-Based Awards   
     The following table reports the value realized from the
vesting of the following stock-based awards for the named executive officers:      
 
   The following table also reports the number of partnership value
appreciation rights ( VARs ) Mr. McAdam exercised in 2013, which were granted to Mr. McAdam on March 31, 2004, by Verizon Wireless, his employer on that date. Mr. McAdam exercised his VARs in December 2013 in connection
with the impending expiration date of the 10 year term of the award and the expiration of the VAR program on March 31, 2014.    In 2014, based on the
Company s relative TSR as compared with the Related Dow Peers, the Committee approved a vested percentage of 100% of the target number of PSU awards granted for the 2011-2013 performance cycle for all participants, including the named executive
officers. The values of the 2011 PSU awards upon vesting for Mr. McAdam, Mr. Mead, Mr. Shammo, Mr. Stratton and Mr. Milch were $8,165,769, $3,552,093, $3,307,139, $2,799,689, and $2,916,366, respectively, and the value of
the 2011 RSUs upon vesting for Mr. McAdam, Mr. Mead, Mr. Shammo, Mr. Stratton and Mr. Milch were $5,443,827, $2,368,062, $2,204,759, $1,866,497 and $1,944,244, respectively.  
      47  

Option Exercises and Stock Vested   

1   
 The option awards listed for Mr. McAdam represent VARs granted on March 31, 2004, by Verizon Wireless, his employer on that date. The value realized on exercise represents the difference between $63.36, the
value of the corresponding Verizon Wireless partnership rights on the date the rights were exercised, and $13.89, the exercise price for such rights. The value of the Verizon Wireless partnership rights was determined by an independent third party
valuation in November 2013, in accordance with the terms of the VARs and consistent with past practice.    

2   
 The amounts include dividend equivalents that were credited on the PSU and RSU awards that vested on December 31, 2013 in accordance with the terms of the awards. The amounts in this column
represent the number of shares acquired on vesting multiplied by $49.14, the closing price of Verizon s common stock on December 31, 2013.    
    Pension Plans       
 Effective June 30, 2006, Verizon froze all future pension accruals under its management tax-qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans. All accruals
under the Verizon Wireless defined benefit retirement plan (tax-qualified and nonqualified) were frozen as of December 31, 2006. Each of the named executive officers other than Messrs. Shammo and Stratton is eligible for a frozen pension
benefit.     Verizon Management Pension Plan and Verizon Excess Pension Plan.     The Verizon Management Pension Plan is a tax-qualified
defined benefit pension plan and the Verizon Excess Pension Plan is a nonqualified defined benefit pension plan. Messrs. Mead and Milch are eligible for benefits under the Verizon Management Pension Plan and the Verizon Excess Pension Plan.
Mr. McAdam is not eligible for benefits under either of these plans because he was employed by Verizon Wireless prior to January 1, 2007. Under the Verizon Management Pension Plan and the Verizon Excess Pension Plan, the normal retirement
age is age 65 with at least 5 years of service and the early retirement age for unreduced benefits is age 55 with 15 or more years of service, and total age plus years of service equal to at least 75. Messrs. Mead and Milch are eligible for
early retirement benefits under the Verizon Management Pension Plan and the Verizon Excess Pension Plan. For Messrs. Mead and Milch, their benefit under the Verizon Excess Pension Plan is based on the cash balance formula noted below, and each of
them is vested in the benefit.    Until June 30, 2006, Mr. Milch earned pension benefits under a cash balance formula that provided for retirement pay
credits equal to between four and seven percent (depending on age and service) of annual eligible pay for each year of service. Under the cash balance formula, a participant s account balance is also credited with monthly interest based upon
the prevailing market yields on certain U.S. Treasury obligations. Eligible pay under the Verizon Management Pension Plan consisted of the employee s base salary and the  short-term  incentive award, up to
the IRS qualified plan compensation limit. Pension benefits for all eligible pay in excess of the IRS limit were provided under the Verizon Excess Pension Plan based on the cash balance formula. At the time that the tax-qualified and nonqualified
pension plans were frozen to future pension accruals on June 30, 2006, plan participants were provided with a one-time additional 18 months of benefits as a transition matter.  
 As a former employee of GTE Wireless Incorporated, Mr. Mead earned a pension benefit under the Verizon Management Pension Plan based on the better of two highest
average pay formulas. The first formula was based  
      48  

on 1.35% of his average annual eligible pay for the five highest consecutive eligible years of service. The second formula was based on eligible pay for the five highest consecutive eligible
years of service and was integrated with social security, with a 1.15% accrual for eligible pay under the social security integration level and a 1.45% accrual above the social security integration level. Both of these formulas were
discontinued on May 31, 2004 for former GTE Wireless Incorporated employees employed by Verizon Wireless, and Mr. Mead ceased to accrue a pension under those formulas on May 31, 2004. Effective October 23, 2005, Mr. Mead
transferred from Verizon Wireless to Verizon, and he started to again earn a pension under the better of (i) the 1.35% highest average pay formula or (ii) the cash balance formula. Mr. Mead s service with Verizon Wireless from
June 1, 2004 through October 22, 2005 was excluded from any pension calculation. As noted above, accruals under the 1.35% highest average pay formula and cash balance formula were frozen effective June 30, 2006.  
 At the time of Mr. Mead s transfer from Verizon Wireless to Verizon effective October 23, 2005, the value of his nonqualified benefit was determined as a
lump sum, and a nonqualified cash balance account was created under the Verizon Excess Pension Plan using this value as the opening balance as of November 1, 2005. Mr. Mead earned retirement pay credits equal to 7% (based on age and
eligible service) of annual eligible pay in excess of the pay cap for each year of service after October 23, 2005, including monthly interest credits. As noted above, accruals under the nonqualified cash balance formula were frozen effective
June 30, 2006.     Verizon Wireless Retirement Plan.     In 2001, Verizon Wireless consolidated the pension plans of several predecessor
companies under the Verizon Wireless Retirement Plan. Mr. McAdam is entitled to both a tax-qualified and a nonqualified pension benefit under this plan. Mr. McAdam s tax-qualified pension benefit was determined under
two formulas: (i) for the period from January 1, 2001 until May 31, 2004, a cash balance formula that provided pay credits equal to two percent of annual eligible pay up to the IRS compensation
limit (under the cash balance formula, a participant s account balance is also credited on an ongoing basis with interest credits based upon the 30-year Treasury bond); and (ii) a final average pay formula based on 24 years of
service multiplied by 1.45% of Mr. McAdam s average annual eligible pay for the five final consecutive years for each year of service through the end of 2006. The normal retirement age under the Verizon Wireless Retirement Plan is 65. The
early retirement age (for unreduced benefits) under the plan is 55. Mr. McAdam is eligible for
unreduced early retirement benefits under the plan. Mr. McAdam s nonqualified plan benefit was determined using the 1.45% final average pay formula and was calculated based
on 10 years of service and only included his eligible pay in excess of the IRS compensation limit through the end of 2006, at which time no further adjustments to eligible pay were recognized under the plan. For Mr. McAdam,
eligible pay consisted of base salary and the short-term incentive award. No participant under the plan was eligible for cash balance credits under the nonqualified portion of the plan.  
 The following table illustrates the actuarial present value as of December 31, 2013 of pension benefits accumulated by the named executive officers, other than
Messrs. Shammo and Stratton who are not eligible for pension benefits.     Pension Benefits   

1   
   The values are based on the assumptions for the actuarial determination of pension benefits as required by the relevant accounting standards as described in
note 11 to the Company s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, as included in the Company s 2013 Annual Report to Shareowners. However, in accordance with the requirements for this table, the values
are calculated using the executive s retirement at the     
      49  

earliest age at which he can retire without having the retirement benefit reduced under the plan. For Mr. McAdam, the assumptions are generally the same as described above.

2   
 The years of credited service for each of Messrs. McAdam, Mead and Milch with respect to the applicable plan is less than the named executive officer s number of actual years of service with the Company. For
Mr. McAdam, the 10 years of credited service represents the period over which he earned a benefit in the nonqualified portion of the Verizon Wireless Pension Plan. For Mr. Mead and Mr. Milch, the 8 and 9 years of credited service
represent the periods over which they earned a benefit in the Verizon Excess Pension Plan, respectively.       Defined Contribution Savings Plans
        The named executive officers are participants in the
Company s tax-qualified defined contribution savings plan, the Verizon Management Savings Plan, which is referred to as the Savings Plan, and its nonqualified defined contribution savings plan, the Verizon Executive Deferral Plan, which is
referred to as the Deferral Plan. The named executive officers participate in these plans on the same terms as other participants in these plans.    Under the terms of
the Savings Plan, participants are eligible to defer up to 16% of their eligible pay into the Savings Plan up to the IRS qualified plan compensation limit. Verizon provides a matching contribution equal to 100% of the first 6% of eligible pay that
any participant contributes to the Savings Plan. Under the Deferral Plan, a participant may defer up to 100% of base salary in excess of the IRS qualified plan compensation limit, short-term incentive compensation and long-term incentive
compensation. Verizon provides a matching contribution equal to 100% of the first 6% of base salary and short-term incentive compensation that a participant contributes to the Deferral Plan. Deferrals of long-term incentive compensation, such as
PSUs and RSUs, are not eligible for Company matching contributions. Participants in the Savings Plan and the Deferral Plan are eligible for an additional discretionary profit-sharing contribution of up to 3% of eligible pay, in the case of the
Savings Plan, and eligible deferrals, in the case of the Deferral Plan. In determining whether to make a profit-sharing contribution, the Committee uses the same criteria it uses to determine the short-term incentive award paid to employees at the
corporate level. For 2013, the discretionary contribution was 3.0%.    Messrs. McAdam, Mead, Shammo and Stratton were participants in the Verizon Wireless Executive
Deferral Plan while they were employed at Verizon Wireless. Under the Verizon Wireless Executive Deferral Plan, a participant may defer up to 100% of base salary in excess of the IRS qualified plan compensation limit and short-term incentive
compensation. Verizon Wireless provides a matching contribution equal to 100% of the first 6% of base salary and short-term incentive compensation that a participant contributes to the plan. Participants are eligible for an additional discretionary
profit-sharing contribution to the Verizon Wireless Executive Deferral Plan of up to 3% of eligible pay and eligible deferrals. In determining whether to make a profit-sharing contribution, the Verizon Wireless Human Resources Committee uses the
same criteria used to determine the short-term incentive award paid to employees at the corporate level.    Participants in the Deferral Plan and the Verizon Wireless
Executive Deferral Plan may elect to invest their deferrals in a hypothetical cash account that earns a return rate equal to the long-term, high-grade corporate bond yield average as published by Moody s Investor Services or in the other
hypothetical investment options available to all plan participants under the Savings Plan. Participants in the Deferral Plan and the Verizon Wireless Executive Deferral Plan may generally elect to receive their benefits in a lump sum or
installments, commencing on a separation from service or specific date elected by the participant.    Messrs. Mead and Milch also have account balances under the
Income Deferral Plan (referred to as the IDP). The IDP is a nonqualified deferred compensation plan that was the predecessor to the Deferral Plan. The IDP was amended to freeze the accrual of benefits under the plan as of the close of business on
December 31, 2004. Participants in the IDP no longer accrue any additional benefits other than market-based investment earnings or losses on their individual accounts. No new deferrals were permitted after 2004. Participants retain the ability
to invest their frozen accounts in the investment options available under the plan. Participants in the IDP do not receive matching contribution credits or retirement credits under the plan.  
 Messrs. McAdam, Mead, Shammo and Stratton also have account balances under the Verizon Wireless Executive Savings Plan (referred to as the ESP). The ESP is a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan that was the predecessor to the Verizon Wireless Executive Deferral Plan. The ESP was amended to freeze the accrual of benefits under the plan as of the close of business on December 31, 2004.
Participants in the ESP no longer  
      50  

accrue any additional benefits other than market-based investment earnings or losses on their individual accounts. No new deferrals were permitted after 2004. Participants retain the ability to
invest their frozen accounts in the investment options available under the ESP. Participants in the ESP do not receive matching contribution credits or retirement credits under the plan.  
 The following table shows the 2013 account activity for each named executive officer and includes each executive s contributions, Company matching contributions,
earnings, withdrawals and distributions and the aggregate balance of his total deferral account as of December 31, 2013.     Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation       

2   
 The amounts listed in this column are also included in columns (i) and (j) of the Summary Compensation Table.    

4   
 The aggregate amounts shown in columns (e) and (f) include the following amounts that were reported as compensation to the named executive officer in the Summary Compensation Table in previous proxy statements
of the registrant:        

Potential Payments upon Termination or Change
in Control         The following summaries and tables
describe and quantify the potential payments and benefits that would be provided to each of our named executive officers if a termination of employment or change in control of Verizon had occurred at the end of 2013 under Verizon s compensation
plans and agreements.     Payments Made upon Termination     Regardless of the
manner in which a named executive officer s employment terminates, the executive is entitled to receive amounts earned during the term of employment. This includes amounts accrued and vested under our
 
      51  

pension plans and nonqualified deferred compensation plans, which are reported in the  Pension Benefits  and  Nonqualified Deferred Compensation  tables above. Those benefits
are not included in the summaries and tables below.    In addition, amounts earned under our 2013 Short-Term Plan awards and amounts earned under our 2011 Long-Term
Plan awards are not included in the summaries or tables below. Amounts earned under our 2013 Short-Term Plan awards are discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis on pages 34-37 and are reported in the Summary Compensation Table on page
44. Amounts earned under our 2011 Long-Term Plan awards are discussed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis on pages 38-40 and are reported in the Option Exercises and Stock Vested table on page 48. If a named executive officer s
employment had terminated on December 31, 2013 for any reason other than for cause, the full amount of the 2013 Short-Term Plan award and the full amount of the 2011 Long-Term Plan awards in each case to the extent earned, would have been
payable. These amounts would be determined and payable at the same time as awards are determined and paid to participating employees generally under those plans. In the event of a termination for cause, no amount would have been payable under these
awards.     Potential Payments upon Qualifying Separation or Involuntary Termination Without Cause   
  Mr. McAdam.  As Chairman and CEO, Mr. McAdam is not eligible to participate in the Senior Manager Severance Plan described below. Mr. McAdam is also
not a party to an employment agreement with Verizon or any other agreement that would provide him with cash severance benefits in the event his employment is involuntarily terminated by Verizon without cause.  
  Senior Manager Severance Plan.   Verizon provides severance benefits to certain employees, including all of the named executive officers other than the
Chairman and CEO, under its Senior Manager Severance Plan. Under the plan, a named executive officer is eligible to receive severance benefits if he experiences a  qualifying separation  from Verizon, which is generally defined as an
involuntary termination by Verizon without cause, a voluntary termination by the executive solely due to the executive s refusal to accept a qualifying reclassification or relocation (as those terms are defined in the plan) or a determination
by the independent members of the Board that the named executive officer has incurred a qualifying separation. A severance benefit, if triggered, is payable to an executive only if the executive executes a release of claims against Verizon in the
form satisfactory to Verizon and agrees not to compete or interfere with any Verizon business for a period of one year after termination from employment and always to protect Verizon s trade secrets and proprietary information.  
 If a named executive officer incurs a qualifying separation under the plan, he is eligible to receive the following benefits: (i) a lump-sum cash separation payment
equal to two times the sum of his base salary and target short-term incentive opportunity; and (ii) continued medical, dental and vision coverage for two years.  
 In addition, if the executive s qualifying separation occurs prior to the last day of the year, the executive will receive a prorated Short-Term Plan award for the
year in which the termination occurs, determined based on the actual level of achievement of the performance criteria under the Short-Term Plan for the applicable year and payable at the time that awards are payable to participating employees
generally under the plan. To the extent that an executive also becomes eligible for severance benefits under any outstanding agreement, plan or any other arrangement, the executive s cash severance payment under the Senior Manager Severance
Plan will be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the amount or single-sum value of the severance benefits payable to the executive under such other agreement, plan or arrangement.  
  Other Benefits .  Upon an involuntary termination of employment without cause, a named executive officer would also be eligible to receive financial
planning and outplacement services for one year following termination on the same basis as provided to other senior executives. However, executives will only be entitled to receive financial planning services if they participate in the program in
the year in which their employment terminates. Mr. McAdam did not participate in the financial planning program in 2013 and, as a result, would not have been entitled to receive financial planning services if his employment had terminated on
the last business day of 2013. In addition, under the terms of the executive life insurance plan, each named executive officer who is retirement eligible upon termination and who continues to pay the annual premiums on the life insurance policy
owned by the executive would be eligible to receive an annual payment from Verizon to pay a portion of the annual premium until (i) in the case of Messrs. McAdam, Mead, Shammo and Stratton, the latest of the executive s attainment of age
60, the completion of 5 years of plan participation or qualifying retirement; or (ii) in the case of Mr. Milch, the later of the executive s attainment of age 65 or 15 years of plan participation. Retirement eligibility is generally
defined as  
      52  

having attained 75 points (age plus years of service) with at least 15 years of service. As of December 31, 2013, Mr. Mead had attained plan maturity and would not have been entitled to
receive any additional payments from Verizon with respect to this benefit if his employment had terminated on the last business day of 2013.     Estimated
Payments.   The following table shows Verizon s estimate of the amount of benefits the named executive officers would have been entitled to receive had their employment been involuntarily terminated without cause or terminated for
good reason on the last business day of 2013 and had incurred a qualifying separation under the Senior Manager Severance Plan.      

1   
 The amounts reflect Verizon s estimated cost of providing medical, dental and vision coverage for two years.    

2   
 Mr. McAdam did not participate in the financial planning program in 2013 and, as a result, would not have been entitled to receive financial planning services if his employment had terminated on the last business
day of 2013.    

3   
 If Mr. Mead had retired on December 31, 2013, he would not have been entitled to receive additional company contributions because he had reached plan maturity as of that date.    
  Potential Payments upon Death, Disability or Retirement     Under the terms of
the executive life insurance plan, in the event of disability or a qualifying retirement, a named executive officer who continues to pay the annual premiums on the life insurance policy owned by the executive would be eligible to receive an annual
payment from Verizon to pay a portion of the annual premium until: (i) in the case of Messrs. McAdam, Mead, Shammo and Stratton, the latest of the executive s attainment of age 60, the completion of 5 years of plan participation or
qualifying retirement, or (ii) in the case of Mr. Milch, the later of the executive s attainment of age 65 or 15 years of plan participation. If the named executive officer dies, his beneficiary would be entitled to receive the
proceeds of the life insurance policy owned by the executive, payable by the third-party issuer of the policy. As of December 31, 2013, Mr. Mead had attained plan maturity and was no longer eligible to receive any additional payments from
Verizon with respect to this benefit if his employment had terminated on the last business day of 2013.    Under the Short-Term Plan, if the named executive
officer s employment terminates due to death, disability or a qualifying retirement prior to the last day of the year, the executive would be eligible for a prorated Short-Term Plan award for the year in which the termination date occurred,
determined based on the actual level of achievement of the performance criteria under the Short-Term Plan for the applicable year and payable at the time that awards are generally payable to participating employees under the plan. As described
above, if the executive s employment terminates on the last day of the year for any reason other than for cause, the full amount of the Short-Term Plan award, determined based on the actual level of achievement of the performance criteria under
the Short-Term Plan for the applicable year, would have been payable.    In addition, upon death, disability or a qualifying retirement, each named executive officer
would also be eligible to receive financial planning services for one year following termination on the same basis as provided to other senior executives, provided that they participated in the program in the year in which their employment
terminates. Upon disability, the named executive officers would also be eligible for disability benefits under the tax-qualified and nonqualified disability plans.  
      53  

Estimated Payments .  The following table shows Verizon s estimate of the amount of benefits the named
executive officers would have been entitled to receive had their employment terminated due to death, disability or qualifying retirement on the last business day of 2013.      

1   
 In the event of death, the amount represents the proceeds from the life insurance policy owned by the named executive officer, payable from the third-party issuer of the policy. In the event of disability or retirement,
the amount, if any, represents the total amount of annual payments to the named executive officer to pay a portion of the annual premium of the life insurance policy owned by him, provided that the named executive officer continues to pay the annual
premiums pursuant to the terms of the executive life insurance program. If Mr. Mead had retired on December 31, 2013, he would not have been entitled to receive additional company contributions because he had reached plan maturity as of
that date.    

2   
 Assumes that each named executive officer would be immediately eligible for long-term disability benefits from Verizon s qualified and nonqualified disability benefit plans. Messrs. Shammo and Stratton do not
participate in the nonqualified portion of the disability benefit. The assumptions used to calculate the value of the disability benefits include a discount rate of 5.0% and mortality and recovery based on the 1987 National Association of Insurance
Commissioners Group Disability Table. These rates represent the probability of death or recovery between the
date of disability and the payment end date. The qualified portion of the disability benefit for Messrs. McAdam, Mead, Shammo, Stratton and Milch is estimated at
$445,974, $410,789, $420,677, $423,793 and $591,385, respectively, and the nonqualified portion of the disability benefit for Messrs. McAdam, Mead and Milch is estimated at $887,687, $817,654, and $1,177,120, respectively. In order to receive the
nonqualified portion of the disability benefit, the executive must pay the premium associated with the qualified portion of the benefit.    

3   
 Mr. McAdam did not participate in the financial planning program in 2013 and, as a result, would not have been entitled to receive financial planning services if his employment had terminated on the last business
day of 2013.    

4   
 Mr. Stratton would not have been entitled to receive executive life insurance benefits or financial planning benefits because he had not fulfilled the eligibility requirements for retirement under the terms of those
programs on the last business day of 2013.       Potential Payments upon Change in Control   
 Verizon does not maintain any plans or arrangements that provide for any named executive officer to receive cash severance or any other cash payments in connection with
a change in control of Verizon. If the named executive officer s employment terminates in connection with or following a change in control, he would be eligible for the same benefits, if any, that would become payable to the executive upon his
termination under the circumstances as described above. Under the Short-Term Plan, if a change in control occurs, all outstanding awards will vest and become payable on the regularly scheduled payment date.  
      54  

Equity Awards     As is the case
for all participants under the terms of the Long-Term Plan and the applicable award agreements, upon an involuntary termination of employment without cause, death, disability or qualifying retirement, each named executive officer s then
unvested RSUs will vest and be paid on the regularly scheduled payment date after the end of the applicable award cycle and each named executive officer s then unvested PSUs will vest and be paid on the regularly scheduled payment date after
the end of the applicable award cycle, but only if and to the extent that the applicable performance criteria for the award are achieved at the end of the applicable award cycle. However, Mr. McAdam s special PSU and RSU awards granted in
2011 will be forfeited if Mr. McAdam retires prior to July 31, 2016. Under the Long-Term Plan, a qualifying retirement generally means to retire after having attained at least 15 years of vesting service (as defined under the applicable
Verizon tax-qualified savings plan) and a combination of age and years of vesting service that equals or exceeds 75 points. As of December 31, 2013, Messrs. McAdam, Mead, Shammo and Milch were retirement-eligible under the Long-Term Plan.  
 In addition, under the terms of the Long-Term Plan and the applicable award agreements, if, in the 12 months following a change in control of Verizon, a
participant s employment is involuntarily terminated without cause, all then-unvested RSUs will vest and be paid on the regularly scheduled payment date after the end of the applicable award cycle and all then-unvested PSUs will vest at target
level performance and be paid on the regularly scheduled payment date after the end of the applicable award cycle.    Under the Long-Term Plan, a change in control of
Verizon is generally defined as the occurrence of any of the following:      

Any person becomes a beneficial owner of shares representing twenty percent or more of Verizon s outstanding voting stock;    

Verizon consummates a merger, consolidation, reorganization or any other business combination; or    

The Board adopts resolutions authorizing the liquidation or dissolution, or sale of all or substantially all of the assets, of Verizon.    
 However, a change in control will not occur if:      

The amount of Verizon voting stock outstanding immediately before the transaction represents at least forty-five percent of the combined voting power of the corporation that survives the transaction;    

Verizon Directors constitute at least one-half of the board of directors of the surviving corporation;    

Verizon s CEO is the CEO of the surviving corporation; and    

The headquarters of the surviving corporation is located in New York, New York.       Estimated
Payments.     The following table shows the estimated value of the payouts that the named executive officers could have received in respect of their outstanding unvested equity awards if any of the following events occurred on
the last business day of 2013: (i) a change in control of Verizon without a termination of employment; (ii) a change in control of Verizon and an involuntary termination of employment without cause; and (iii) a termination of
employment as a result of an involuntary termination without cause, qualifying retirement, or death or disability. The amounts represent the estimated value of the RSU and PSU awards granted in 2012 and 2013, and in addition for Mr. McAdam, his
special 2011 PSU and RSU awards, that would have been payable pursuant to the terms of the award agreements, calculated using the total number of units (including accrued dividends) on the last business day of 2013 and $49.14, Verizon s closing
stock price on that date, and for the PSUs, assuming the award would vest at target performance levels. The actual amount payable under these awards can be determined only at the time the awards would be paid.  

55  

1   
 Mr. Stratton would not have been entitled to receive any amount in respect of his outstanding unvested equity awards upon retirement because he had not met the eligibility requirements for retirement under the terms of
the Long-Term Plan on the last business day of 2013.       Non-Employee Director Compensation   
     In 2013, each non-employee Director of Verizon received an
annual cash retainer of $100,000. Any Director who served on the Board for less than the full year received an amount pro-rated to reflect the portion of the year he or she served. The Corporate Governance and Policy and Finance Committee
Chairpersons received an additional annual cash retainer of $15,000, the Audit and Human Resources Committee Chairpersons received an additional annual cash retainer of $25,000, and the Presiding Director received an additional annual cash retainer
of $10,000. Each Director also received an annual grant of Verizon share equivalents valued at $150,000 on the grant date. No meeting fees were paid if a Director attended a Board or Committee meeting on the day before or the day of a regularly
scheduled Board meeting. Each Director who attended such a meeting held on any other date received a meeting fee of $2,000.    In addition, in 2013, the Board
established a committee composed of Mr. Price (Chairperson), Ms. Keeth and Ms. Tesija to assist the Board in responding to a shareholder demand. The Chairperson received a cash retainer of $5,000, and each Committee member received a
meeting fee of $2,000 for each of the three meetings held by the Committee during 2013.    A new Director who joins the Board receives a one-time grant of 3,000
Verizon share equivalents valued at the closing price on the date that the Director joins the Board.    All share equivalents are automatically credited to the
Director s deferred compensation account under the Verizon Executive Deferral Plan and invested in a hypothetical Verizon stock fund. Amounts in the deferred compensation account are paid in a lump sum in the year following the year that the
Director leaves the Board.    Under the Verizon Executive Deferral Plan, Directors may defer all or part of their annual cash retainer and meeting fees. A Director
may elect to invest these amounts in a hypothetical cash account that earns a return rate equal to the long-term, high-grade corporate bond yield average as published by Moody s Investor Services or in the other hypothetical investment options
available to participants in Verizon s Management Savings Plan.    Directors who served as directors of NYNEX Corporation participate in a charitable giving
program. Under this program, when a participant retires from the Board or attains age 65 (whichever occurs later) or dies, one or more charitable contributions in the aggregate amount of $1,000,000 are made, payable in ten annual installments.
Directors who served as directors of GTE Corporation participate in a similar program for which the aggregate contribution is $1,000,000, payable in five annual installments commencing upon the Director s death. The GTE and NYNEX programs are
financed through the purchase of insurance on the life of each participant. The charitable giving programs are closed to future participants. In 2013, the aggregate cost of maintaining and administering the legacy charitable giving programs for all
participants was $62,185.    The Directors are eligible to participate in the Verizon Foundation Matching Gifts Program. Under this program, which is open to all
Verizon employees, the Foundation matches up to $5,000 per year of charitable contributions to accredited colleges and universities, $1,000 per year of charitable contributions to any non-profit with 501(c)(3) status, and $1,000 per year of
charitable donations to designated disaster relief campaigns.  
      56  

Director Compensation       

* 
 Denotes a Chairperson of a standing or special committee.    

3   
 This column reflects above-market earnings on nonqualified deferred compensation plans. Non-employee Directors do not participate in any defined benefit pension plan.    

4   
 This column reflects matching contributions made on the Directors  behalf under the Verizon Foundation Matching Gift Program.    
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   
  Principal Shareholders       
 On March 3, 2014, there were approximately [XX] billion shares of Verizon common stock outstanding and each share is entitled to one vote. The following table sets
forth information about persons we know to beneficially own more than five percent of the shares of Verizon common stock, based on our records and information reported in filings with the SEC. To the extent that information in the table is based on
information contained in an SEC filing, it is accurate only as of the date referenced in the filing. On February 21, 2014 in connection with the Verizon Wireless transaction, we issued approximately 1.27 billion shares, thereby increasing
our outstanding common stock by approximately 45%. As a result, it is possible that shareholders  percentage interest in our outstanding common stock has changed significantly since that date.  
      57  

Directors and Executive Officers   
     In the following table, you can find information showing the
number of shares of Verizon common stock beneficially owned by each of the named executive officers, each Director and all executive officers and Directors as a group as of January 31, 2014. This information includes shares held in
Verizon s employee savings plans and shares that may be acquired within 60 days pursuant to the exercise of stock options and/or the conversion of certain stock units under deferred compensation plans. The aggregate number of shares owned by
executive officers and Directors represents less than one percent of the total number of outstanding shares of Verizon common stock. Unless we have indicated otherwise, each individual and/or his or her family member(s) has or have sole or shared
voting and/or investment power with respect to the securities. Executive officers and Directors also have interests in other stock-based units under Verizon deferred compensation plans and stock-based long-term incentive awards. We have included
these interests in the  Total Stock-based Holdings  column in the table below to show the total economic interest that the executive officers and Directors have in Verizon common stock.  

* 
 Mr. McAdam also serves as a Director.    

1   
 In addition to direct and indirect holdings, the  Stock  column includes shares that may be acquired within 60 days pursuant to the conversion of RSUs granted in 2011 as follows: 109,531 shares for Mr. McAdam;
23,823 shares for Mr. Mead; 44,360 shares for Mr. Shammo; 33,779 shares for Mr. Stratton; and 39,119 shares for Mr. Milch. The  Stock  column also includes shares that may be acquired within 60 days pursuant to the conversion of certain
stock units under deferred compensation plans as follows: 12,771 shares for Mr. Milch; 3,191 shares for Mr. Carri n; and 2,501 shares for Mr. Price. Prior to conversion, the shares underlying the RSUs and deferred compensation
units may not be voted or transferred. No shares are pledged as security.    
      58  

2   
 The  Total Stock-based Holdings  column includes, in addition to shares listed in the  Stock  column, stock-based units under deferred compensation plans and stock-based long-term incentive awards,
which may not be voted or transferred.       Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance   
     SEC rules require that we disclose any late filings of stock
transaction reports by our executive officers and Directors. Based solely on a review of the reports that we filed on behalf of these individuals or that were otherwise provided to us, our executive officers and Directors met all Section 16(a)
filing requirements during calendar year 2013.          
     [This portion of the page intentionally left blank]  
           
      59  

Appendix A     

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GUIDELINES   
  The Board has adopted these Guidelines and the Committee Charters to provide a framework for the functioning of the Board. The Board will periodically review these
materials and practices in light of ongoing developments and the Corporation s needs to determine whether any changes are required.      Role of the Board
    The business of the Corporation is conducted by management, under the direction of the Board of Directors. The Board, and each committee of the Board, has
complete access to management. In addition, the Board and each committee have access to independent advisors as each deems necessary or appropriate.      Strategic
Planning and Management Development.      At least once a year, the Board conducts a strategic planning session with management. The Board reviews succession planning and management development at least annually. The
process includes consideration of organizational needs, competitive challenges, the potential of key managers, planning for future development and emergency situations.  
   Executive Sessions.      The independent Directors of the Board meet at least twice each year in executive session. The non-employee
Directors of the Board meet at least three times each year in executive session. Any Director has the right to call a meeting or executive session of the independent Directors or of the non-employee Directors.  
 In at least one executive session, the Board assesses the process and effectiveness of the Board (including opportunities for continuing education and orientation of new
Directors) and considers any other matters that the Directors request. In an executive session of independent Directors, the Board receives the Human Resources Committee s report on the CEO s performance and compensation.  
   Presiding Director.      At or prior to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, the independent members of the Board of Directors shall elect
an independent Director to serve as Presiding Director until the next Annual Meeting, or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The Presiding Director shall act as liaison with the Chairman, in consultation with the other Directors. In
addition, all Directors shall have direct and complete access to the Chairman at any time as they deem necessary or appropriate. The Presiding Director shall chair all executive sessions of the Board and all other meetings of the Board at which the
Chairman is not present. The Presiding Director may, in his or her discretion, call a meeting of the Board or an executive session of the Board, and shall call an executive session at the request of any other Director.  
 The Presiding Director, in consultation with the Chairman, shall review and approve the schedule of meetings of the Board, the proposed agendas and the materials to be
sent to the Board. Directors shall have the opportunity to provide suggestions for the meeting schedule, agenda items and materials to the Chairman or the Presiding Director.  
 Any shareholder or interested party may communicate directly with the Presiding Director:  
 Verizon Communications Inc.    Presiding Director
   Board of Directors    140 West Street, 29 th  Floor    New York, New York 10007  

Committees.      There are three (3) standing committees of the Board: Audit;
Corporate Governance and Policy; and Human Resources. The members of the Audit, Corporate Governance and Policy and Human Resources committees will be independent as required by law or regulation. The Board may change the number of committees from
time to time.    The responsibilities of each committee are set forth in its charter, which is approved by the Board and posted on the Corporation s website. Each
committee Chair approves the agenda and materials for each meeting and reports its actions and discussions to the Board as soon as practicable. At least annually, each committee conducts an assessment of its charter and its processes and
effectiveness.      Membership.      The Corporate Governance and Policy Committee annually reviews and recommends the members and Chair
of each committee for approval by the Board. The Committee periodically considers rotating Chairs and members of the committees.  
   Meetings.      Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and each committee on which they serve. Directors are provided
with a copy of the proposed agenda sufficiently in advance of each scheduled meeting in order to have the opportunity to comment on or make changes to the agenda. Directors standing for election are expected to attend the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.     Board Composition and Director Qualifications     The Board
will periodically assess the needs of the Corporation to determine the appropriate size of the Board. At all times, a substantial majority of the Board will be independent and not more than two Directors will be current or former employees of
Verizon.      Qualifications   .     A candidate must:      

Be ethical;        

Have proven judgment and competence;        

Have professional skills and experience in dealing with a large, complex organization or in dealing with complex problems that are complementary to the background and experience represented on the Board and that meet
the needs of the Corporation;        

Have demonstrated the ability to act independently and be willing to represent the interests of all shareholders and not just those of a particular philosophy or constituency; and    

Be willing and able to devote sufficient time to fulfill his or her responsibilities to Verizon and its shareholders.      In
assessing the appropriate composition of the Board, the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee also considers other factors that are relevant to the current needs of the Corporation, including those that promote diversity.  
   Identification and Consideration of Candidates   .     The Corporate Governance and Policy Committee considers candidates proposed
by members of the Committee, other Directors, management and shareholders. The Committee considers candidates for re-election, provided that the candidate has consented to stand for re-election and tendered an irrevocable resignation to the Chairman
of the Committee prior to nomination each year. All candidates are evaluated in the same manner. After the Committee has completed its evaluation, it presents its recommendation to the full Board for its consideration and approval. In presenting its
recommendation, the Committee also reports on other candidates who were considered but not selected.    Verizon will conduct an orientation program for each new
Director that includes, among other things, a review of the Corporation s business, financial condition, strategy, ethical obligations, key issues and other relevant topics.  
   Independence.      A Director is considered independent if the Board finds that the Director is independent under the corporate
governance listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock Market. In addition, in evaluating independence, the Board will not consider a Director independent if:  

1. 
 Within the past three years, the Director or a Member of the Director s Immediate Family has:        

Been an employee of Verizon or a Verizon subsidiary ( Verizon     
      A-2  

Received during any 12-month period more than $100,000 in direct compensation from Verizon (other than Director s compensation and other than pension or other deferred compensation for prior service with Verizon);

Been an executive officer of a company where at the same time a Verizon executive officer or executive in compensation Band 1 (each a  Verizon Senior Executive ) served on the company s compensation
committee;        

2. 
 The Director is retained under a personal or professional services contract by Verizon;        

3. 
 The Director is an employee, or a Member of the Director s Immediate Family is an executive officer, of a company that has made payments to, or received payments from, Verizon in an amount that, in any of the past
three years, exceeded the greater of $1 million or one percent of that company s consolidated gross revenues;        

4. 
 The Director is an executive officer of a lender to Verizon and Verizon s outstanding indebtedness to the lender in any of the past three years exceeded one percent of the lender s outstanding loans at the end
of the lender s fiscal year;        

5. 
 The Director is an executive officer of a non-profit entity that has received contributions from Verizon or its Foundation that, in any of the past three years, exceeded one percent of that entity s consolidated
gross revenues (excluding matching gift contributions by Verizon s Foundation); or        

6. 
 The Director has any other relationship that the Board determines is inconsistent with applicable laws and regulations on directors  independence or that is likely to impair the Director s ability to act
independently.      For purposes of these Guidelines except as otherwise noted, a Member of a Director s Immediate Family includes his or her spouse,
parents, children, siblings, mothers and fathers-in-law, sons and daughters-in-law, brothers and sisters-in-law and anyone (other than domestic employees) who shares the Director s home.  
 An executive officer of a company on whose board a Verizon Senior Executive serves is not eligible for nomination as a new Director of the Corporation.  
  Related Person Transaction Policy   
   Definitions   .     For purposes of this Policy,  
     Related Person   means:         

1. 
 any person who has served as a Director or a Verizon executive officer ( Officer ) at any time during the Corporation s last fiscal year;    

2. 
 any person whose nomination to become a Director has been presented in a proxy statement relating to the election of Directors since the beginning of the Corporation s last fiscal year;    

3. 
 any person who was at any time during the Corporation s last fiscal year an  Immediate Family Member  of any of the persons listed above. Immediate Family Member means spouse, child, stepchild, parent,
stepparent, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of the Director, Officer or nominee, and any person (other than a tenant or employee) sharing the household of such Director, Officer or
nominee; or        

4. 
 any person or any Immediate Family Member of such person who is known to the Corporation to be the beneficial owner of more than 5 percent of the Corporation s stock at the time of the Transaction (as defined
below).        Related Person s Firm   means any firm, corporation or other entity in which a Related Person is an
executive officer or general partner or in which all Related Persons together have a 10 percent or more ownership interest.  
   Transaction   means any transaction, arrangement or relationship with Verizon since the beginning of the Corporation s last fiscal
year in an amount greater than $120,000 that involves or will involve a Related Person or a Related Person s Firm. It does not include:  

(a) 
 compensation to a Director or Officer which is or will be disclosed in the Corporation s proxy statement;    
      A-3  

(b) 
 compensation to an Officer who is not an Immediate Family Member of a Director or of another Officer and which has been approved by the Human Resources Committee or the Board;    

(c) 
 a transaction in which the rates or charges involved are determined by competitive bids, or which involves common, contract carrier or public utility services at rates or charges fixed in conformity with law or
governmental authority;    

(d) 
 a transaction that involves services as a bank depositary of funds, transfer agent, registrar, indenture trustee, or similar services; or    

(e) 
 a transaction in which the Related Person s interest arises solely from the ownership of Verizon stock and all shareholders receive the same benefit on a pro rata basis.    
   Related Person Transaction   means a Transaction in which a Related Person is determined to have, had, or will have a direct or indirect
material interest.      Policy Statement   .     The Board of Directors recognizes that Related Person Transactions can present
potential conflicts of interest (or the perception thereof) and therefore has adopted this policy which shall be followed in connection with all Related Person Transactions involving the Company.  
   Process.      Annually, each Director and Officer shall submit to Verizon the name and employment affiliation of his or her Immediate
Family Members and the name of any Related Person s Firm with which any of them are affiliated. Directors and Officers shall notify Verizon promptly of any changes to this information. Each Director and Officer shall also identify any
Transaction that they, their Immediate Family Members or their Related Person Firms are or will be involved in. On an ongoing basis, Directors and Officers shall promptly advise the Committee of any changes to such Immediate Family Members,
Transactions or Related Person Firms.    Management shall submit Transactions and appropriate supplemental information to the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee
for its review.    The Corporate Governance and Policy Committee shall review Transactions in order to determine whether a Transaction is a Related Person Transaction.
The Committee shall take such action with respect to the Related Person Transaction as it deems necessary and appropriate under the circumstances, including approval, disapproval, ratification, cancellation, or a recommendation to management. Only
disinterested members of the Committee shall participate in those determinations. In the event it is not practical to convene a meeting of the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee, the Chair of that Committee shall have the right to make such
determination and shall promptly report his or her determination in writing to the other members of the Committee.    The Committee shall report its action with
respect to any Related Person Transaction to the Board of Directors.     Change in Status or Retirement   
 If a Director retires or changes his or her employment status or principal responsibility, the Director will tender a resignation to Verizon. The Corporate Governance
and Policy Committee will recommend to the Board whether the resignation should be accepted.     Service on Other Boards   
 A Director who serves as an executive officer of a public company should not serve on more than three public company boards, including that of his or her own company,
and other Directors should not serve on more than six public company boards. In order not to disrupt existing affiliations with other boards, a Director may maintain current positions, even if the number of those positions exceed these limits,
unless the Board determines that permitting the position to continue will impair the Director s ability to serve on the Verizon Board. Directors are expected to advise the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee of any changes in their
membership on other boards.     Retirement     A Director will retire from the
Board the day before the Annual Meeting of Shareholders next following his or her 72nd birthday.     Compensation   
 The Human Resources Committee periodically reviews and determines Director compensation and benefits. The Committee determines compensation based on a review of
comparable companies, alignment with the interests of shareholders and the advice of independent advisors.  
      A-4  

Stock Ownership     Within three
years of joining the Board, each Director shall acquire, and continue to hold during his or her tenure on the Board, Verizon stock with a value equivalent to three times the cash component of the annual Board retainer. Shares held by the Director
under any deferral plan are included in determining the number of shares held.     Business Conduct and Ethics   
 Directors are expected to act in compliance with these Guidelines, applicable laws and regulations, and the spirit of the Verizon Code of Business Conduct for employees.
Employee Directors are also governed by Verizon s Code of Business Conduct.      Conflicts of Interest.      A Director should avoid
situations that result or appear to result in a conflict of interest with Verizon. A Director may be considered to have a conflict of interest if the Director s interest interferes or appears to interfere in any material way with the interests
of Verizon, including if:      

The Director, any Member of the Director s Immediate Family, or any company with which any of them is associated as an officer, director, five percent or more owner, partner, employee or consultant (i) is a
five percent or more owner of, or (ii) has any management interest in, any company that is in the same business as Verizon ( potential competitive interest  or    

The Director offers gifts or other benefits to or solicits or receives gifts or other benefits from another entity as a result of his or her position with Verizon; or    

The Director has any other relationship that the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee believes is likely to result in a conflict of interest with Verizon.    
 A non-employee Director is expected to advise Verizon prior to acquiring or continuing any interest or entering into any transaction or relationship that may present a
potential competitive interest. The Corporate Governance and Policy Committee, in consultation with the CEO and Chairman, will review and advise the Board as soon as practicable whether a conflict would be presented.  
   Corporate Opportunities.      A Director should not take advantage of an opportunity to engage in a business activity that properly
belongs to Verizon, including any activity that is discovered as a result of the use of Verizon information or property or in connection with his or her service as a Director. A Director should not use Verizon information, property or his or her
position with Verizon for personal gain.      Securities Transactions   .     A Director should not trade, or enable any other
person to trade, in Verizon s securities or the securities of another company while aware of material non-public information.  
   Confidentiality.      Directors should maintain the confidentiality of information about Verizon and other entities which Verizon
entrusts to them, except where the disclosure is authorized or required by law.      Fair Dealing   .     Directors should act
fairly in any dealings with the Corporation s stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, competitors, employees and shareholders.  
   Waiver   .     No waiver of any provision of the business conduct and ethics requirements for a Director, or of any provision of the
Verizon Code of Business Conduct for a Verizon Senior Executive, may be granted without the approval of the Board of Directors. The Board is strongly predisposed against any such waivers. However, in order to approve any such waiver, the Board must
affirmatively find that the waiver does not violate any applicable law or regulation and that the waiver is in the best interests of the Corporation. In the event the Board approves a waiver, it will ensure that the waiver and the Board s
rationale for granting the waiver are promptly disclosed, consistent with applicable legal and stock exchange requirements.     Verizon Senior Executives Serving on
Outside Boards     A Verizon Senior Executive must obtain approval from the Corporate Governance and Policy Committee in advance of accepting any new membership on
the Board of a public company. Verizon Senior Executives may not serve on the Board of more than two public companies other than Verizon.    A Verizon Senior Executive
will not accept a new directorship with a company if the CEO or other executive officer of that company is serving as a Director of Verizon.  
      A-5  

Shareholder Communications with Directors   
 If a shareholder wishes to communicate directly with the Board, a Committee of the Board or with an individual Director, he or she should send the communication to:  
 Verizon Communications Inc.    The Board of Directors
[or Committee name or Director s name, as appropriate]    140 West Street, 29 th  Floor  
 New York, New York 10007    Verizon will forward all shareholder
correspondence about Verizon to the Board, Committee or individual Director(s).     Policy on Adoption of Shareholder Rights Plans   
 The Corporation does not currently have a shareholder rights plan, or  poison pill,  and the Board currently has no plans to adopt such a plan. However, if the
Board is presented with a set of facts and circumstances which leads it to conclude that adopting a rights plan would be in the best interest of shareholders, it will seek prior shareholder approval unless the independent Directors, exercising their
fiduciary duties, determine that such submission would not be in the best interests of shareholders under the circumstances. If any rights plan is adopted without prior shareholder approval, it will be presented to shareholders within one year or
expire within one year without being renewed or replaced. Any plan adopted by the Board will also contain a  sunset  provision, providing that shareholders will have the opportunity to ratify or reject the plan every three years following
the date of initial shareholder approval.     Shareholder Advisory Vote   
 Effective with the Corporation s 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a management proposal related to executive compensation in the form approved by the Board of
Directors will be submitted annually to shareholders for a non-binding vote.  
      A-6  

Appendix B   
  Related Dow Peer Information     The following chart lists the
companies included in the Related Dow Peers for 2013 compensation purposes, and their market capitalization as of December 31, 2013, as reported by Bloomberg, and net income attributable to the company, revenue and total employees, as of each
company s most recent fiscal year-end as reported in SEC filings.      
 
      B-1  

Appendix C   
  Verizon Communications Inc. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures   
   Adjusted Net Income Reconciliation        

(dollars in billions) 

Year Ended December 31,    
      
  2013  

Reported Net Income Attributable to Verizon   
      
     $   
   11.5       

Severance, Pension and Benefit Credits  

(3.9)    

Gain on Spectrum License Transaction 1   

-        

Wireless Transaction Costs  

0.6     

Adjusted Net Income Attributable to Verizon   
      
     $   
   8.2       

1 The after-tax Gain on Spectrum License Transaction amounted to $47.8 million.  
   Adjusted EPS Reconciliation        
   Note: EPS may not add due to rounding.  
   Free Cash Flow Reconciliation        
 
      C-1  

</EX-99>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 vz-20131231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 vz-20131231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 vz-20131231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 vz-20131231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 vz-20131231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 vz-20131231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

