<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090224_10-K_edgar_data_797468_0000797468-09-000015_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>3207682</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>305454</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>74456</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1310668</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>108</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000797468-09-000015.hdr.sgml : 20090224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090224142918
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000797468-09-000015
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000797468
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				954035997
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09210
		FILM NUMBER:		09630484

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10889 WILSHIRE BLVD
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90024
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3102088800

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10889 WILSHIRE BOULEVARD
		CITY:			LOS ANGELES
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			90024

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GzP/QbbqnQ+m3QvYVagVbJrClm9AbetvLGfjXO2d1W+1qWqd7x9k/K1GhjY/oi0Q
 gAuHTRPeXGf7A4Sol7sbmw==

 0000797468-09-000015.txt : 20090224

10-K
 1
 form10k-2008.htm
 FORM 10-K

Occidental Petroleum Corporation 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION  

  Washington, D.C. 20549  

Form 10-K   

Commission File Number 1-9210   

Occidental Petroleum
Corporation   

  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:  

Title of Each Class    
     
         Name of Each Exchange on Which
      Registered     

10 1/8% Senior Debentures due 2009   
     
        New York Stock Exchange    

9 1/4% Senior Debentures due 2019   
     
        New York Stock Exchange    

Common Stock   
     
        New York Stock Exchange     

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act: None  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.          YES    
  o   NO  

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. (Note: Checking the box will not relieve any registrant required to
file reports pursuant to Section13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act from their obligations under those
Sections).      o   YES    
      NO  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or
for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90
days.          YES    
  o   NO  

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.         

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. (See definition of "large
accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  

  Large Accelerated
Filer             Accelerated
Filer    o        Non-Accelerated
Filer    o        Smaller Reporting
Company    o  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell
company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule
12b-2).      o   YES    
      NO  

The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held
by nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $71.9 billion, computed by reference to the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange composite tape of $89.86 per share of Common Stock on June 30, 2008. Shares of Common Stock held by each executive officer
and director have been excluded from this computation in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of
potential affiliate status is not a conclusive determination for other purposes.  

At January 31, 2009, there were 810,294,560 shares of
Common Stock outstanding.  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

  Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy
Statement, filed in connection with its May 1, 2009, Annual Meeting of Stockholders, are incorporated by reference into Part
III.  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Page     

Part I    

Items 1 and
      2    
     
        Business and
      Properties   
     
         3     

General   
     
         3     

Oil and Gas
      Operations   
     
         3     

Chemical
      Operations   
     
         4     

Midstream, Marketing and Other
      Operations   
     
         5     

Capital
      Expenditures   
     
         5     

Employees   
     
         5     

Environmental
      Regulation   
     
         5     

Available
      Information   
     
         5     

Item 1A    
     
        Risk Factors   
     
         6     

Item 1B    
     
        Unresolved Staff
      Comments   
     
         7     

Item 3    
     
        Legal Proceedings   
     
         7     

Item 4    
     
        Submission of Matters to a Vote of
      Security Holders   
     
         7     

Executive Officers   
     
         7     

Part II    

Item 5    
     
        Market for Registrant s
      Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Purchases of Equity Securities   
     
         8     

Item 6    
     
        Selected Financial
      Data   
     
         10     

Item 7 and
      7A    
     
        Management s Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A)   
     
         10     

Strategy   
     
         10     

Oil and Gas Segment   
     
         12     

Chemical Segment   
     
         17     

Midstream, Marketing and Other
      Segment   
     
         18     

Corporate   
     
         19     

Segment Results of
      Operations   
     
         19     

Significant Items Affecting
      Earnings   
     
         21     

Taxes   
     
         21     

Consolidated Results of
      Operations   
     
         22     

Consolidated Analysis of Financial
      Position   
     
         23     

Liquidity and Capital
      Resources   
     
         24     

Off-Balance-Sheet
      Arrangements   
     
         25     

Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments,
      Contingencies and Related Matters   
     
         26     

Environmental Liabilities and
      Expenditures   
     
         27     

Foreign
      Investments   
     
         28     

Critical Accounting Policies and
      Estimates   
     
         28     

Significant Accounting
      Changes   
     
         31     

Derivative Activities and Market
      Risk   
     
         32     

Safe Harbor Discussion Regarding
      Outlook and Other Forward-Looking Data   
     
         33     

Item 8    
     
        Financial Statements and
      Supplementary Data   
     
         34     

Management's Annual Assessment of
      and Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
     
         34     

Report of Independent Registered
      Public Accounting Firm on Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
         35     

Report of Independent Registered
      Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
     
         36     

Consolidated Statements of
      Income   
     
         37     

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets   
     
         38     

Consolidated Statements of
      Stockholders  Equity   
     
         40     

Consolidated Statements of
      Comprehensive Income   
     
         40     

Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows   
     
         41     

Notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements   
     
         42     

Quarterly Financial Data
      (Unaudited)   
     
         73     

Supplemental Oil and Gas
      Information (Unaudited)   
     
         75     

Financial Statement
      Schedule:   

Schedule II   Valuation and
      Qualifying Accounts   
     
         84     

Item 9    
     
        Changes in and Disagreements with
      Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
     
         85     

Item 9A    
     
        Controls and
      Procedures   
     
         85     

Disclosure Controls and
      Procedures   
     
         85     

Part III    

Item 10    
     
        Directors, Executive Officers and
      Corporate Governance   
     
         85     

Item 11    
     
        Executive
      Compensation   
     
         85     

Item 12    
     
        Security Ownership of Certain
      Beneficial Owners and Management   
     
         85     

Item 13    
     
        Certain Relationships and Related
      Transactions and Director Independence   
     
         85     

Item 14    
     
        Principal Accountant Fees and
      Services   
     
         85     

Part IV    

Item 15    
     
        Exhibits and Financial Statement
      Schedules   
     
         86      

Part I   

   ITEMS 1 AND
2    BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES   

  In this report, "Occidental" refers
to Occidental Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation (OPC), and/or one or more entities in which it owns a majority voting
interest (subsidiaries).  Occidental conducts its operations through various oil and gas, chemical, midstream, marketing and other
subsidiaries and affiliates.  Occidental s executive offices are located at 10889 Wilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
90024; telephone (310) 208-8800.  

GENERAL   

  Occidental s principal
businesses consist of three segments.  The oil and gas segment explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil, natural gas
liquids (NGLs), condensate and natural gas.  The chemical segment (OxyChem) manufactures and markets basic chemicals, vinyls and
performance chemicals.  The midstream, marketing and other segment (midstream and marketing) gathers, treats, processes, transports,
stores, trades and markets crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, condensate and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and generates and markets
power.  Unless otherwise indicated hereafter, discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers to crude oil, NGLs and
condensate.  

  Occidental changed its alignment of
operating segments at the beginning of 2008.  In previous years, oil and gas and a portion of the midstream and marketing operations
were reported as a single oil and gas segment and some of the corporate-directed midstream and marketing operations were reported
under corporate and other.  In the past two years, the Dolphin Project (Dolphin) pipeline began transporting natural gas to the
United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Occidental acquired a common carrier pipeline system in the Permian Basin, various gas processing
plants and the remaining ownership interest in a cogeneration facility.  The addition of these operations to the existing midstream
and marketing infrastructure caused management to realign its operating segments to increase its focus on these operations. All
segment information for prior periods has been revised to retrospectively reflect the current segment reporting structure.  The
change to segment reporting had no effect on Occidental's reported consolidated earnings.  Each of the reportable segments
represents separate and distinct operations, is managed and receives resource allocation as a separate business unit and has its
performance separately evaluated.  For financial information by segment and by geographic area, see Note 16 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements of Occidental (Consolidated Financial Statements).  

  For information regarding
Occidental's current developments, see the information in the "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" (MD A) section of this report.  

   OIL AND GAS OPERATIONS   

   General   

  Occidental s domestic oil and
gas operations are located in Texas, New Mexico, California, Kansas, Oklahoma, Utah and Colorado.  International operations are
located in Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Libya, Oman, Qatar, the UAE and Yemen.  For additional information regarding Occidental's
oil and gas segment, see the information under the caption "Oil and Gas Segment" in the MD A section of this report.  

Proved Reserves and Sales
Volumes   

  The table below shows
Occidental s total oil and natural gas proved reserves and sales volumes in 2008, 2007 and 2006.  See
"MD A   Oil and Gas Segment," Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information under the
caption "Supplemental Oil and Gas Information" for certain details regarding Occidental s oil and gas proved reserves, the
estimation process and sales volumes by country.  On May 1, 2008, Occidental reported to the United States Department of Energy on
Form EIA-28 proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2007.  The amounts reported were the same as those reported in
Occidental s 2007 Annual Report.  

Comparative Oil and Gas Proved Reserves
and Sales Volumes   

  Oil in millions of barrels; natural gas in billions of
cubic feet; BOE in millions of barrels of oil equivalent  

(a)   
     
        Includes NGLs and
      condensate.    

(b)   
     
        Natural gas volumes have been converted to barrels
      of oil equivalent (BOE) based on energy content of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of gas to one barrel of
      oil.    

(c)   
     
        Occidental has classified its Pakistan (in 2007),
      Horn Mountain (in 2007) and Ecuador (in 2006) operations as discontinued operations on a retrospective application basis and
      excluded them from this table.    

(d)   
     
        Stated on a net basis after applicable royalties.
      Includes proved reserves related to production-sharing contracts (PSCs) and other similar economic arrangements of 826 million
      BOE (MMBOE) in 2008, 603 MMBOE in 2007 and 657 MMBOE in 2006.     

3  

Competition and Sales and
Marketing   

  As a producer of oil and natural gas,
Occidental competes with numerous other domestic and foreign private and government producers.  Oil and natural gas are commodities
that are sensitive to prevailing global and, in certain cases, local conditions of supply and demand and are sold at "spot" or
contract prices or through the futures markets to refiners and other market participants.  Occidental competes by developing and
producing its worldwide oil and gas reserves cost-effectively and acquiring rights to explore and develop in areas with known oil
and gas deposits.  Occidental also competes by increasing production through enhanced oil recovery projects in mature and
underdeveloped fields and making strategic acquisitions.  

   CHEMICAL OPERATIONS   

  OxyChem manufactures and markets
basic chemicals, vinyls and performance chemicals.  

  OxyChem owns and operates
manufacturing plants at 21 domestic sites in Alabama, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Louisiana, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania
and Texas and at three international sites in Brazil, Canada and Chile. OxyChem produces the following products:  

Principal
      Products    
     
         Major Uses    
     
         Annual
      Capacity     

Basic
      Chemicals     

Chlorine   
     
        Chlorovinyl chain and water
      treatment   
     
        4.0 million tons
       (a)     

Caustic Soda   
     
        Pulp, paper and aluminum production   
     
        4.2 million tons
       (a)     

Chlorinated
      organics   
     
        Silicones, paint stripping, pharmaceuticals and
      refrigerants   
     
        0.9 billion
      pounds       

Potassium chemicals   
     
        Glass, fertilizers, cleaning products and
      rubber   
     
        0.4 million
      tons       

Ethylene dichloride
      (EDC)   
     
        Raw material for vinyl chloride monomer
      (VCM)   
     
        2.4 billion pounds
       (a)     

Vinyls     

VCM   
     
        Precursor for polyvinyl chloride
      (PVC)   
     
        6.2 billion
      pounds       

PVC   
     
        Piping, medical, building materials and automotive
      products   
     
        3.7 billion
      pounds       

Performance
      Chemicals     

Chlorinated
      isocyanurates   
     
        Swimming pool sanitation and disinfecting
      products   
     
        131 million
      pounds       

Resorcinol   
     
        Tire manufacture, wood adhesives and flame
      retardant synergist   
     
        50 million
      pounds       

Sodium silicates   
     
        Soaps, detergents and paint
      pigments   
     
        0.6 million
      tons     

(a)   
     
        Includes gross capacity of a joint venture in
      Brazil, owned 50 percent by Occidental.     

4  

MIDSTREAM, MARKETING AND OTHER
OPERATIONS   

  The midstream and marketing
operations gather, treat, process, transport, store, trade and market crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, condensate and CO 2 
and generate and market power.  

Below is a description of midstream
and marketing operations:  

Location    
     
         Description    
     
         Annual
      Capacity     

Gas
      Plants     

California,
      Colorado and Permian Basin   
     
        Occidental-operated
      and third-party operated gas gathering, treating, compression and processing systems, and CO 2 
      processing   
     
        1.680 billion
      cubic feet per day    

Pipelines     

Permian
      Basin   
     
        Common carrier
      oil pipeline and storage system   
     
        350,000
      barrels of oil per day  
        5.0 million
      barrels of oil storage  
        2,750 miles of
      pipeline    

Permian Basin -
       CO 2  pipelines   
     
        Pipeline systems
      transporting CO 2  to oil and gas producing locations   
     
        1.425 billion
      cubic feet per
      day    

Qatar - Dolphin
      Pipeline   
     
        24.5% equity
      investment in natural gas transport pipeline   
     
        3.2 billion
      cubic feet of natural gas per day  (a)     

Western and
      Southern United States and Canada   
     
        Minority
      investment in partnerships involved in pipeline transportation and storage and marketing of oil, gas and related petroleum
      products   
     
        20,000 miles
      of pipeline and gathering systems  
         23 million
      barrels of oil storage    

Marketing and
      Trading     

Texas   
     
        Purchases and
      markets Occidental and third-party oil, gas and power   
     
        Not
      applicable    

Power
      Generation     

California, Texas
      and Louisiana   
     
        Occidental-owned
      power and steam generation facilities and 50% equity investment in a power generation facility   
     
        1,800
      megawatts per hour and 1.6 million pounds of steam per hour     

(a)   
     
        Capacity requires additional gas compression and
      customer contracts.     

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES   

  For information on capital
expenditures, see the information under the heading "Liquidity and Capital Resources   Capital Expenditures" in the
MD A section of this report.  

EMPLOYEES   

  Occidental employed approximately
10,400 people at December 31, 2008, 6,900 of whom were located in the United States.  Occidental employed approximately 6,200 people
in the oil and gas and midstream and marketing segments and 3,100 people in the chemical segment.  An additional 1,100 people were
employed in administrative and headquarters functions.  Approximately 800 United States-based employees and 200 foreign-based
employees are represented by labor unions.  

  Occidental has a long-standing strict
policy to provide fair and equal employment opportunities to all applicants and employees.  

ENVIRONMENTAL
REGULATION   

  For environmental regulation
information, including associated costs, see the information under the heading "Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures" in the
MD A section of this report.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION   

  Occidental makes the following
information available free of charge through its web site at www.oxy.com:  

Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and amendments to these
      forms as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
      Commission (SEC);    

Other SEC filings, including Forms 3, 4 and 5;
      and    

Corporate governance information, including its
      corporate governance guidelines, board-committee charters and Code of Business Conduct.  (See Part III Item 10 of this report
      for further information.)     

Information contained on Occidental's
web site is not part of this annual report.  

5  

ITEM 1A    RISK
FACTORS   

    Volatile global and local
commodity pricing strongly affects Occidental s results of operations.    

  Occidental s financial results
typically correlate closely to the prices it obtains for its products.  Changes in consumption patterns, global and local economic
conditions, inventory levels, production disruptions, the actions of OPEC, currency exchange rates, speculation, worldwide drilling
and exploration activities, weather, geophysical and technical limitations and other matters may affect the supply and demand
dynamics of oil and gas, contributing to price volatility.  

  Demand and, consequently, the price
obtained for Occidental s chemical products correlate strongly to the health of the United States and global economy, as well
as chemical industry expansion and contraction cycles.  Occidental also depends on feedstocks and energy to produce chemicals, which
are commodities subject to significant price fluctuations.  

  Recent global economic conditions have
driven oil and gas prices down to levels last seen in 2004.  These conditions may continue for an extended period.  

    Occidental s oil and gas
business operates in highly competitive environments, which affect, among other things, its results of operations and its ability to
grow production and replace reserves.    

  Occidental s oil and gas production
and results of operations depend, in part, on its ability to profitably acquire, develop or find additional reserves.  Occidental
replaces significant amounts of its reserves through acquisitions and large development projects.  Occidental has many competitors
(including national oil companies), some of which are larger and better funded, may be willing to accept greater risks or have
special competencies.  Competition for reserves may make it more difficult to find attractive investment opportunities or require
delay of expected reserve replacement efforts.  Cash conservation considerations during periods of low product prices may delay
production growth and reserve replacement efforts.  

    Governmental actions, political
instability and labor unrest may affect Occidental s results of operations.    

  Occidental s businesses are subject
to the decisions of many governments and political interests.  As a result, Occidental faces risks of:  

new or amended laws and regulations, including
      those related to taxes, royalty rates, profit repatriation, permitted production rates, import, export and use of equipment
      and environmental protection, all of which may increase costs or reduce the demand for Occidental's
      products;    

reduction of entitlements to produce oil and
      gas; and    

refusal or delay in the extension or grant of,
      exploration, production or development contracts.     

  Occidental may experience adverse
consequences, such as risk of loss or production limitations, because certain of its foreign operations are located in countries
occasionally affected by political instability, armed conflict, terrorism, insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, labor
unrest, OPEC production restrictions, equipment import restrictions and sanctions.  Exposure to such risks may increase if a greater
percentage of Occidental s future oil and gas production comes from foreign sources.  

    Occidental faces risks associated
with its mergers, acquisitions and divestitures.    

  Occidental s merger, acquisition and
divestiture activities carry risks that it may: not fully realize anticipated benefits due to less than expected reserves or
production or changed circumstances, such as prices; bear unexpected integration costs or experience other integration difficulties;
experience share price declines based on the market s evaluation of the activity; assume or retain liabilities that are greater
than anticipated; or be unable to resell acquired assets as planned or at planned prices.  

    Occidental s oil and gas
reserves are based on professional judgments and may be subject to revision.    

  Calculations of oil and gas reserves
depend on estimates concerning reservoir characteristics and recoverability, as well as oil and gas prices, capital costs and
operating costs.  If Occidental were required to make unanticipated significant negative reserve revisions, its results of
operations and stock price could be adversely affected.  

    Occidental may incur significant
losses in exploration activities or delays or cost overruns in development efforts.    

  Exploration is inherently risky.
Exploration and development activities are subject to misinterpretation of geologic or engineering data, unexpected geologic
conditions or finding reserves of disappointing quality or quantity, which may result in significant losses.  Occidental bears the
risks of project delays and cost overruns due to equipment failures, approval delays, construction delays, escalating costs for
materials and labor, border disputes and other associated risks in its development efforts.  

    Concerns about climate change or
energy dependence may affect Occidental s operations or results of operations.    

  There is an ongoing scientific effort to
assess and quantify the effects of climate change and the potential human influences on climate, and related efforts by certain U.S.
and foreign jurisdictions to propose or adopt legislation, regulations or policies seeking to control or reduce emissions of
 greenhouse gases  or consumption of fossil fuels.  As a result of these efforts, Occidental faces risks of delays in new
or expanded development projects and increases in taxes.  Occidental also faces risks of increases in the costs to produce,
reductions in the demand for, and restrictions on the use of, its products.  

6  

Occidental s businesses may
experience catastrophic events.    

  The occurrence of natural disasters, such
as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, and events such as well blowouts, oilfield fires, industrial accidents and other events that
cause operations to cease, may affect Occidental s businesses.  Third-party insurance may not provide adequate coverage or
Occidental may be self-insured with respect to the related losses.  

    Other risk
factors.    

  Additional discussion of risks related to
oil and gas reserve estimation processes, price and demand, litigation, environmental matters, foreign operations, impairments,
derivatives and market risks appears under the headings: " MD A   Oil   Gas Segment  Proved
Reserves" and "  Industry Outlook," "Chemical Segment   Industry Outlook," "Midstream, Marketing and Other
Segment   Industry Outlook," "Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters," "Environmental
Liabilities and Expenditures," "Foreign Investments," "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates," and "Derivative Activities and
Market Risk."  

ITEM
1B    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

  None.  

ITEM 3    LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS   

  For information regarding legal
proceedings, see the information under the caption, "Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments, Contingencies and Related Matters" in the
MD A section of this report and in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

ITEM 4    SUBMISSION
OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS   

  No matters were submitted to a vote of
Occidental s security holders during the fourth quarter of 2008.  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS   

The current term of employment of each
executive officer of Occidental will expire at the May 1, 2009 organizational meeting of the Board of Directors or when a successor
is selected. The following table sets forth the executive officers and significant employees of Occidental:  

7  

Part II   

ITEM 5    
     
         MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON
      EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      

TRADING PRICE RANGE AND
DIVIDENDS   

  This section incorporates by reference
the quarterly financial data appearing under the caption "Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" after the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the information appearing under the caption "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in the MD A section of
this report.  Occidental s common stock was held by 38,791 stockholders of record at December 31, 2008, and by approximately
410,000 additional stockholders whose shares were held for them in street name or nominee accounts.  The common stock is listed and
traded principally on the New York Stock Exchange.  The quarterly financial data, which are included in this report after the Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements, set forth the range of trading prices for the common stock as reported on the composite
tape of the New York Stock Exchange and quarterly dividend information.  

  In May 2006, Occidental amended its
Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock to 1.1 billion.  The par value per
share remained unchanged.  

  On August 1, 2006, Occidental effected a
two-for-one stock split in the form of a stock dividend to stockholders of record as of that date with distribution of the shares on
August 15, 2006.  The total number of authorized shares of common stock authorized for issuance and associated par value per share
were unchanged by this action.  All share and per-share amounts have been adjusted to reflect this stock split.  

  The quarterly dividends declared on the
common stock were $0.25 per share for the first quarter of 2008 and $0.32 for the last three quarters of 2008 ($1.21 for the year).
On February 5, 2009, a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share ($1.28 on an annualized basis) was declared on the common stock,
payable on April 15, 2009 to stockholders of record on March 10, 2009.  The declaration of future cash dividends is a business
decision made by the Board of Directors from time to time, and will depend on Occidental s financial condition and other
factors deemed relevant by the Board.  

SECURITIES AUTHORIZED FOR ISSUANCE UNDER
EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS   

  All of Occidental's equity compensation
plans for its employees and non-employee directors, pursuant to which options, rights or warrants or other equity awards may be
granted, have been approved by the stockholders.  See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on
the material terms of these plans.  

  The following is a summary of the shares
reserved for issuance as of December 31, 2008, pursuant to outstanding options, rights or warrants or other equity awards granted
under Occidental s equity compensation plans:  

a)   
     
        Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of
      outstanding options, warrants and rights   

b)   
     
        Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding
      options, warrants and rights   

c)   
     
        Number of securities remaining available for future
      issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities in column (a))    

3,977,959   

$34.94   

56,641,658
      *     

*  Includes, with respect
      to:    

the 1995 Incentive Stock Plan, 5,602 shares
      reserved for issuance pursuant to deferred stock unit awards;    

the 2001 Incentive Compensation Plan, 487,032
      shares at maximum payout level (243,516 at target level) reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding performance stock
      awards, 54,800 shares reserved for issuance pursuant to restricted stock unit awards, 12,949 shares reserved for issuance
      pursuant to deferred stock unit awards and 834 shares reserved for issuance as dividend equivalents on deferred stock unit
      awards; and    

the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 679,998
      shares at maximum payout level (339,999 at target level) reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding performance stock
      awards, 378,010 shares reserved for issuance pursuant to restricted stock unit awards, 1,516,000 shares at maximum payout
      level (758,000 at target level) reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding performance-based restricted share units and
      1,400,321 shares at maximum payout level (933,547 at target level) reserved for issuance pursuant to total shareholder return
      incentive awards.    

Of the 52,095,360 shares that are not reserved
      for issuance under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, approximately 44.1 million shares are available for issuance after
      giving effect to the provision of the plan that each award, other than options and stock appreciation rights, must be counted
      against the number of shares available for issuance as three shares for every one share covered by the award. Subject to this
      share count requirement, not more than the approximate 44.1 million shares may be issued or reserved for issuance for options,
      rights, warrants and other forms of stock compensation.     

8  

SHARE REPURCHASE
ACTIVITIES   

  Occidental s share repurchase
activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 were as follows:  

PERFORMANCE GRAPH   

  The following graph compares the yearly
percentage change in Occidental s cumulative total return on its common stock with the cumulative total return of the Standard
  Poor's 500 Stock Index and with that of Occidental s peer group over the five-year period ended on December 31, 2008. The
graph assumes that $100 was invested in Occidental common stock, in the stock of the companies in the Standard   Poor's 500
Index and in a portfolio of the peer group companies weighted by their relative market values each year and that all dividends were
reinvested.  

  Occidental's peer group consists of
Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, Apache Corporation, BP p.l.c. (BP), Chevron Corporation, ConocoPhillips, Devon Energy
Corporation, ExxonMobil Corporation, Royal Dutch Shell plc and Occidental.  Analysis for the peer group includes five years of
historical performance data as noted above for the common stock of each of the companies.  

9  

ITEM 6    SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   

Five-Year Summary of Selected
Financial Data   

  Dollar amounts in millions, except
per-share amounts  

(a)   
     
        See the MD A section of this report and the
      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding acquisitions and dispositions, discontinued operations
      and other items affecting comparability.   

(b)   
     
        Market capitalization is calculated by
      multiplying the year-end total shares of common stock outstanding, net of shares held in treasury stock, by the year-end
      closing stock price.   

ITEM 7 AND 7A   

Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A)   

STRATEGY   

   General   

  In this report, "Occidental" refers to
Occidental Petroleum Corporation (OPC), and/or one or more entities in which it owns a majority voting interest (subsidiaries).
Occidental's principal businesses consist of three industry segments operated by OPC's subsidiaries and affiliates.  The oil and gas
segment explores for, develops, produces and markets crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs), condensate and natural gas.  The
chemical segment (OxyChem) manufactures and markets basic chemicals, vinyls and performance chemicals.  The midstream, marketing and
other segment (midstream and marketing) gathers, treats, processes, transports, stores, trades and markets crude oil, natural gas,
NGLs, condensate and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) and generates and markets power.  Unless otherwise indicated hereafter,
discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers to crude oil, NGLs and condensate.  In addition, discussions of oil and gas production
or volumes, in general, refer to sales volumes unless context requires or it is indicated otherwise.  

  Occidental aims to generate superior
total returns to stockholders using the following strategies:  

Focus on large, long-lived oil and gas assets
      with long-term growth potential;    

Maintain financial discipline and a strong
      balance sheet;    

Manage the chemical segment to provide cash in
      excess of normal capital expenditures; and    

Manage the midstream and marketing segment to
      generate returns in excess of Occidental's cost of capital.     

Occidental prefers to own large,
long-lived "legacy" oil and gas assets, like those in California and the Permian Basin that tend to have enhanced secondary and
tertiary recovery opportunities and economies of scale that lead to cost-effective production.  Management expects such assets to
contribute substantially to earnings and cash flow after invested capital.  

10  

At Occidental, maintaining financial
discipline means investing capital in projects that management expects will generate above-cost-of-capital returns through their
life cycle.  Occidental expects to use most of any excess cash flow after capital expenditures to enhance stockholders' returns by
continuing its program for evaluating dividend increases, potential stock repurchases and acquisition opportunities.  

  The chemical business is not managed with
a growth strategy.  Capital is expended to operate the chemical business in a safe and environmentally sound way, to sustain
production capacity and to focus on projects designed to improve the competitiveness of these assets.  Asset acquisitions may be
pursued when they are expected to enhance the existing core chlor-alkali and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) businesses.  Historically, the
chemical segment has generated cash flow exceeding its normal capital expenditure requirements.  

  The midstream and marketing segment is
managed to generate returns on capital invested in excess of Occidental's cost of capital.  In order to generate these returns, the
segment operates in and around Occidental's asset base and provides low cost services to other segments as well as to third parties,
and operates gas plants, oil, gas and CO 2  pipeline systems, storage facilities and a trading and marketing business.
Capital is expended to operate those facilities in a safe and environmentally sound way, to sustain or, where appropriate, increase
operational capacity and to improve the competitiveness of Occidental's assets.  

Oil and Gas   

    Segment Earnings    

   ($ millions)   

The oil and gas business seeks to add new
oil and natural gas reserves at a pace ahead of production while minimizing costs incurred for finding and development.  The oil and
gas business implements this strategy within the limits of the overall corporate strategy primarily by:  

Continuing to add commercial reserves through a
      combination of focused exploration and development programs conducted in and around Occidental s core areas, which are
      the United States, the Middle East/North Africa and Latin America;    

Pursuing commercial opportunities in core areas
      to enhance the development of mature fields with large volumes of remaining oil by applying appropriate technology and
      advanced reservoir-management practices; and    

Maintaining a disciplined approach in
      acquisitions and divestitures at attractive prices.     

Over the past several years, Occidental
has strengthened its asset base within each of the core areas.  Occidental has invested in, and disposed of, assets with the goal of
raising the average performance and potential of its assets.  

  In addition, Occidental has continued to
make capital contributions and investments in the Dolphin Project in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the Mukhaizna
project in Oman for continued growth opportunities.  

  Occidental s overall performance
during the past several years reflects the successful implementation of its strategy to enhance the development of mature fields,
beginning with the acquisition of the Elk Hills oil and gas field in California in 1998, followed by a series of purchases in the
Permian Basin in west Texas and New Mexico, the integration of Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (Vintage) operations acquired in 2006, and
Plains Exploration   Production Company (Plains) assets acquired in 2006 and 2008, as well as the investment in the Dolphin
Project, which began operations in 2007.  

  At the end of 2008, the Elk Hills and
Permian assets made up 60 percent of Occidental s consolidated proved oil reserves and 37 percent of its consolidated proved
gas reserves.  On a barrels of oil equivalent (BOE) basis, these assets accounted for 54 percent of Occidental s consolidated
proved reserves.  In 2008, the combined production from these assets was approximately 282,000 BOE per day.  

Chemical   

    Segment Earnings    

   ($ millions)   

11  

OxyChem s strategy is to be a
low-cost producer in order to maximize its cash flow generation.  OxyChem concentrates on the chlorovinyls chain beginning with
chlorine, which is co-produced with caustic soda, both of which are marketed to third parties.  In addition, chlorine, together with
ethylene, is converted through a series of intermediate products into PVC.  OxyChem's focus on chlorovinyls permits it to maximize
the benefits of integration and allows it to take advantage of economies of scale.  

Midstream, Marketing and
Other   

Segment Earnings    

   ($ millions)   

The midstream and marketing segment is
managed to generate returns on capital invested in excess of Occidental's cost of capital.  In order to generate these returns, the
segment operates in and around Occidental's asset base and provides low cost services to other segments as well as to third parties,
and operates gas plants, oil, gas and CO 2  pipeline systems, storage facilities and a trading and marketing business.
Capital is expended to operate those facilities in a safe and environmentally sound way, to sustain, or, where appropriate, increase
operational capacity and to improve the competitiveness of Occidental's assets.  

Key Performance
Indicators   

    General    

  Occidental seeks to ensure that it meets
its strategic goals by continuously measuring its success in maintaining below average debt levels and top quartile performance
compared to its peers in:  

Total return to
      stockholders;    

Return on equity
      (ROE);    

Return on capital employed (ROCE);
      and    

Other segment-specific measurements
      such as profit per unit produced, cost to produce each unit, cash flow per unit, cost to find and develop new reserves,
      reserves replacement percentage and other similar measures.     

During the three-year period from 2006 to
2008, Occidental increased its annual dividend by 78 percent while its stock price increased by 50 percent.  

  Occidental focuses on achieving top
quartile ROE and ROCE.  Occidental has delivered such returns even after considering that during 2008 and the three-year period from
2006 to 2008, Occidental increased its stockholders  equity by 20 percent and 81 percent, respectively.  

(a)   
     
        The ROE and ROCE for 2008 were calculated by
      dividing Occidental's 2008 net income (taking into account cost of capital for ROCE) by its average equity and capital
      employed, respectively, during 2008.    

(b)   
     
        The three-year average ROE and ROCE were
      calculated by dividing the average net income (taking into account cost of capital for ROCE) over the three-year period
      2006-2008 by the average equity and capital employed, respectively, over the same period.     

Debt Structure    

  Occidental s year-end 2008 total
debt-to-capitalization ratio declined to 9 percent from 27 percent at the end of 2004.  During that time, Occidental has reduced its
debt over 29 percent while increasing its stockholders' equity by 158 percent.  

  Since 2007, Occidental s long-term
senior unsecured debt has been rated A by Fitch Ratings.  In 2008, Occidental's long-term senior unsecured debt was upgraded from A-
to A by Standard and Poor's Ratings Services, from A3 to A2 by Moody's Investors Service and from A(low) to A by Dominion Bond
Rating Service.  A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, may be subject to revision or withdrawal
at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  

OIL AND GAS SEGMENT   

   Business Environment   

  Oil and gas prices are the major
variables that drive the industry s short and intermediate term financial performance.  Average oil prices were stronger in
2008 over 2007, as a result of steadily increasing prices during the first half of the year followed by a steep price decline in the
second half, and ended the year lower than the 2007 year-end levels.  West Texas Intermediate (WTI) settled at $145.31 per barrel on
July 3, 2008, up from $95.98 per barrel as of December 31, 2007, and then dropped to $44.60 per barrel at the end of 2008.  The
average WTI market price for 2008 was $99.65 per barrel compared with $72.32 per barrel in 2007.  Occidental s realized price
for crude oil as a percentage of average WTI prices was approximately 89 percent and 90 percent for 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Prices and differentials can vary significantly, even on a short-term basis, making it impossible to predict realized prices with a
reliable degree of certainty.  

12  

The average New York Mercantile Exchange
(NYMEX) domestic natural gas price in 2008 increased approximately 27 percent from 2007.  For 2008, NYMEX gas prices averaged $9.01
per Mcf compared with $7.12 per Mcf for 2007, but was $5.62 per Mcf as of December 31, 2008.  

Business Review   

  All sales, production and reserves
volumes are net to Occidental unless otherwise specified.  

Worldwide Sales
Volumes    

   (thousands BOE/day)   

Acquisitions    

  In February 2008, Occidental purchased
from Plains a 50-percent interest in oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin and western Colorado for approximately $1.5
billion.  In December 2008, Occidental purchased the remainder of Plains' interests in the same assets for approximately $1.2
billion.  

  In June 2008, Occidental and its partner
signed 30-year agreements (including a potential 5-year extension) with the Libyan National Oil Company (NOC) to upgrade its
existing petroleum contracts in Libya.  The new agreements increased Occidental's after-tax economic returns while allowing NOC and
Occidental to design and implement major field redevelopment and exploration programs in the Sirte Basin.  Occidental will
contribute 37.5 percent of the development capital.  Under these contracts, Occidental will pay $750 million as its share of a
signature bonus.  Occidental made its first payment in the amount of $450 million in June 2008.  Occidental's remaining annual
payments of $150 million each, are due in each of the next two years.  

Production-Sharing Contracts
(PSC)    

  Occidental conducts its operations in
Qatar, Oman, Libya and Yemen and the Dolphin Project under PSCs.  Under such contracts, Occidental receives a share of production
and reserves to recover its costs and generally an additional share for profit.  In addition, Occidental's share of production and
reserves from THUMS, Tidelands and certain contracts in Colombia are subject to contractual arrangements similar to a PSC.  These
contracts do not transfer any right of ownership to Occidental and reserves reported from these arrangements are based on
Occidental s economic interest as defined in the contracts.  Occidental s share of production and reserves from these
contracts decreases when product prices rise and increases when prices decline.  Overall, Occidental s net economic benefit
from these contracts is greater when product prices are higher.  

United States    

United
States    

  1.  Elk Hills and other
interests  

  2.  Long Beach  

  3.  Midcontinent /
Rockies  

  4.  Permian Basin  

Permian
Basin    

  The Permian Basin extends throughout
southwest Texas and southeast New Mexico and is one of the largest and most active oil basins in the United States, with the entire
basin accounting for approximately 19 percent of the total United States crude oil production.  Occidental is the largest producer
of crude oil in the Permian Basin with an approximate 16-percent net share of the total production.  Occidental also produces and
processes natural gas and NGLs in the Permian Basin.  

  A significant portion of Occidental's
Permian Basin interests were obtained through the acquisition of Altura Energy Ltd. in 2000, as well as the properties obtained from
Plains in 2008 and 2006.  Occidental's total share of Permian Basin oil and gas production was approximately 198,000 BOE per day in
2008.  At the end of 2008, Occidental's Permian Basin properties had 1.1 billion BOE in proved reserves.  

  Occidental's Permian Basin production is
diversified across a large number of producing areas.  In 2008, Wasson San Andres was Occidental's largest Permian producing field
with approximately 35,000 BOE per day of production and 277 million BOE of proved reserves at year-end.  This field represents
approximately 18 percent of Occidental's 2008 daily Permian Basin production and 25 percent of its year-end Permian Basin proved
reserves.  

  Occidental s interests in the
Permian Basin offer additional development and exploitation potential.  During 2008, Occidental drilled approximately 280 wells on
its operated properties and participated in additional wells drilled on third-party-operated properties.  Occidental conducted
significant development activity on 11 carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) projects during 2008, including implementation of new floods
and expansion of existing CO 2  floods.  Occidental also focused on improving the performance of existing wells. Occidental
had an average of 150 well service units working in the Permian area during 2008 performing well maintenance and
workovers.  

13  

Approximately 66 percent of
Occidental s Permian Basin oil production is from fields that actively employ the application of CO 2  flood
technology, an enhanced oil recovery (EOR) technique.  This technique involves injecting CO 2  into oil reservoirs where it
acts as a solvent, causing the oil to flow more freely into producing wells.  These CO 2  flood operations make Occidental
a world leader in the application of this technology.  

California    

  Occidental's California operations
consist of Elk Hills, THUMS, Tidelands and other interests in the Ventura, San Joaquin and Sacramento basins.  

  Occidental's interest at Elk Hills
includes the Elk Hills oil and gas field in the southern portion of California s San Joaquin Valley, which it operates with an
approximately 78-percent interest, and other adjacent properties.  The Elk Hills field is the largest producer of gas in California.
Oil and gas production in 2008 from the Elk Hills properties was approximately 84,000 BOE per day.  During 2008, Occidental
continued to perform infill drilling, field extensions and recompletions identified by advanced reservoir characterization
techniques, resulting in 275 new wells being drilled and 550 wells being worked over.  At the end of 2008, the Elk Hills properties
had an estimated 491 million BOE of proved reserves.  

  Occidental owns interests in California
properties in the Ventura, San Joaquin and Sacramento basins, other than Elk Hills. The combined properties produce oil and gas from
more than 50 fields.  Oil and gas production from these properties in 2008 was approximately 24,000 BOE per day.  At the end of
2008, the combined properties had an estimated 118 million BOE of proved reserves.  

  THUMS conducts the field operations for
an oil production unit offshore Long Beach, California.  Tidelands is the contract operator for an onshore oil production unit in
Long Beach, California.  Occidental's share of production and reserves from both properties is subject to contractual arrangements
similar to a PSC.  For 2008, Occidental's share of production from THUMS and Tidelands was approximately 20,000 BOE per day and
proved reserves totaled 99 million BOE at year-end.  

Midcontinent and
Rockies    

  Occidental owns 739,000 acres in a large
concentration of gas reserves, production interests and royalty interests in Kansas and Oklahoma where it drilled 87
company-operated wells in 2008.  

  Occidental also has over 77,000 net acres
in western Colorado, including the properties acquired in 2008 from Plains where it drilled 68 company-operated wells in
2008.  

  In 2008, Occidental s Midcontinent
and Rockies operations produced approximately 35,000 BOE per day.  At December 31, 2008, proved reserves for these operations
totaled 250 million BOE.  

Middle East/North
Africa    

Middle
East/North Africa    

  1.  Libya  

  2.  Yemen  

  3.  Oman  

  4.  United Arab
Emirates  

  5.  Qatar  

Dolphin
Project    

  Occidental's investment in the Dolphin
Project, which was acquired in 2002, consists of two separate economic interests through which Occidental owns (i) a 24.5-percent
undivided interest in the assets and liabilities associated with a Development and Production Sharing Agreement (DPSA) with the
Government of Qatar to develop and produce natural gas and NGLs in Qatar s North Field for 25 years from the start of
production, with a provision to request a 5-year extension; and (ii) a 24.5-percent interest in the stock of Dolphin Energy Limited
(Dolphin Energy).  

  Dolphin Energy is the operator under the
DPSA and owns and operates a 230-mile-long, 48-inch natural gas pipeline (Dolphin Pipeline), which transports dry natural gas from
Qatar to the UAE.  Production of natural gas and NGLs under the DPSA from Qatar's North Field began during mid-2007 and, since
mid-2008, production has been at full capacity of the plant.  Occidental s share of production was approximately 52,000 BOE per
day in 2008.  At December 31, 2008, Occidental s share of proved oil and gas reserves from the Dolphin Project was 298 million
BOE.  

  The pipeline has a capacity to transport
up to 3.2 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of natural gas per day and currently transports approximately 2 Bcf per day.  Demand for natural
gas in the UAE and Oman has grown and Dolphin Energy s customers have requested additional gas supplies.  To help fulfill this
growing demand, Dolphin Energy will continue to pursue an agreement to secure an additional supply of gas from Qatar.  

Qatar    

  In addition to its participation in the
Dolphin Project, Occidental operates three offshore projects in Qatar:  Idd El Shargi North Dome (ISND) and Idd El Shargi South Dome
(ISSD), with a 100-percent working interest in each, and Al Rayyan (Block 12), with a 92.5-percent working interest.  Additionally,
Occidental holds a 92.5-percent working interest in the Block 13 exploration block.  

14  

In 2008, Occidental received approval
from the Government of Qatar for the third phase of field development of the ISND field.  Drilling under this phase is expected to
continue through 2010, focusing on continued development of the mature reservoirs, while further delineating and developing the less
mature reservoirs.  

  Occidental s share of production
from ISND, ISSD and Block 12 was approximately 47,000 BOE per day in 2008.  Proved reserves for these properties totaled 150 million
BOE as of December 31, 2008.  

Yemen    

  Occidental owns contractual interests in
three producing blocks in Yemen, including a 38-percent direct-working interest in the Masila field, which expires in December 2011,
a 40.4-percent interest in the East Shabwa field, including an 11.8-percent equity interest in an unconsolidated entity, and a
75-percent working interest in Block S-1.  In addition, Occidental owns a 75-percent working interest in Block 75.  

  Occidental's share of production from the
Yemen properties was 21,000 BOE per day in 2008.  Proved reserves for these properties totaled 28 million BOE as of December 31,
2008.  

Oman    

  In Oman, Occidental is the operator of
Block 9 and Block 27, with a 65-percent working interest in each, Block 53, with a 45-percent working interest, Block 54, with a
70-percent working interest and Block 62, with a 48-percent working interest.  

  Occidental and its partners signed a
30-year PSC for the Mukhaizna field (Block 53) with the Government of Oman in 2005.  In September 2005, Occidental assumed
operations of the Mukhaizna field.  The Mukhaizna field, located in Oman s south central interior, was discovered in 1975 and
was brought into production in 2000.  By the end of 2008, Occidental had drilled over 370 new wells and continued implementation of
a major pattern steam flood project.  As of year-end 2008, the exit rate of gross daily production was over six times higher than
the production rate in September 2005, reaching over 50,000 BOE per day.  Occidental plans to steadily increase production through
continued expansion of the steam flood project.  

  The term for Block 9 is through December
2015, with a potential 10-year extension.  The term for Block 27 is 30 years beginning in September 2005.  Occidental and its
partners began production in June 2006.  

  Occidental and its partners signed a PSC
for Block 54 with the Government of Oman in June 2006 with an initial exploration phase of four years.  

  Occidental was awarded Block 62 in
November 2008 under a 20-year contract.  Block 62 is comprised of both development and exploration opportunities targeting gas and
condensate resources.  

  Occidental's share of production from the
Oman properties was approximately 27,000 BOE per day in 2008, and proved reserves totaled 142 million BOE as of December 31,
2008.  

Libya    

  In 2005, Occidental signed an agreement
with the Libyan National Oil Corporation (NOC) which allowed it to re-enter the country and participate in exploration and
production operations in the Sirte Basin, which it left in 1986 pursuant to United States law.  This re-entry agreement allowed
Occidental to return to its Libyan operations on generally the same terms in effect when activities were suspended.  

  As discussed previously, in June 2008,
Occidental and its partner signed new agreements with NOC to upgrade its existing contracts for up to 30 years.  

  Occidental's share of production during
2008 was approximately 15,000 BOE per day.  In the second half of 2008, production was approximately 8,000 BOE per day as a result
of the new agreements.  At year-end 2008, proved reserves for Occidental s Libya assets totaled 28 million BOE.  

Abu Dhabi    

  In October 2008, Occidental announced the
signing of the preliminary agreement with Abu Dhabi National Oil Company to appraise and develop the Jarn Yaphour and Ramhan oil and
gas fields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.  Occidental would operate both fields and hold a 100-percent interest in the newly created
concessions.  First production from the Jarn Yaphour field, located onshore, could be as early as 2010.  Gross production from the
initial development is anticipated to be approximately 10,000 BOE per day.  At the Ramhan field, located in shallow water offshore,
gross production also is expected to be approximately 10,000 BOE per day, if initial development is technically and commercially
successful.  First production from the Ramhan field could commence as early as 2011.  

Latin America    

Latin
      America    
        1.  Colombia  
        2.  Bolivia  
        3.  Argentina     

Argentina    

  The Argentina assets consist of 23
concessions located in the San Jorge Basin in southern Argentina and the Cuyo Basin and Neuqu n Basin in western Argentina.
Occidental operates 20 of the concessions with a 100-percent working interest.  

15  

During 2008, Occidental drilled 162 new
wells and performed a number of recompletions and well repairs. Occidental plans to increase production through drilling,
waterflooding and EOR projects.  

  Occidental s share of production
from Argentina was approximately 36,000 BOE per day in 2008.  Proved reserves from these assets totaled 160 million BOE at December
31, 2008.  

Bolivia    

  In 2006, Occidental acquired working
interests in four blocks located in the Tarija, Chuquisaca and Santa Cruz regions of Bolivia as part of the Vintage acquisition.  At
the end of 2006, Occidental signed two new operation contracts with commercial terms that provide Bolivia with greater operational
control and control over the commercialization of hydrocarbons.  These contracts went into effect in May 2007.  During 2008,
Occidental completed two workovers in Naranjillos Field.  

Colombia    

  Occidental is the operator under four
contracts within the Llanos Norte Basin: the Cravo Norte, Rond n, Cosecha, and Chipir n Association Contracts.
Occidental s working interests under the four contracts are 42 percent (39 percent starting January 1, 2009), 44 percent, 53
percent and 61 percent, respectively.  Colombia's national oil company, Ecopetrol, operates the Ca o Lim n-Cove as
oil pipeline and marine-export terminal.  The pipeline transports oil produced from the Llanos Norte Basin for export to
international markets.  

  In the Middle-Magdalena Basin, Occidental
signed an agreement with Ecopetrol in 2005 for an EOR project in the La Cira-Infantas field, in which Occidental holds a 48-percent
working interest.  In December 2006, Occidental entered into the commercial phase of the project.  Production from the field is
transported by Ecopetrol through its pipeline and sold to Ecopetrol.  

  Additionally, Occidental holds various
working interests in two exploration blocks.  

  Occidental's share of 2008 production
from its Colombia operations was approximately 37,000 BOE per day and proved reserves for these interests totaled 85 million BOE at
the end of 2008.  

Proved Reserves   

  Occidental's consolidated subsidiaries
had proved reserves at year-end 2008 of 2,978 million BOE, as compared with the year-end 2007 amount of 2,866 million BOE.  Proved
reserves consisted of 74 percent oil and 26 percent natural gas.  Proved developed reserves represented approximately 74 percent of
Occidental s total proved reserves at year-end 2008 compared to 80 percent at year-end 2007.  

Proved Reserve
Additions    

  The total proved reserve additions from
consolidated subsidiaries from all sources were 463 million BOE in 2008, before the effect of price-related revisions.  The total
revisions were as follows:  

In millions of BOE   

Revisions of previous estimates   

(18    
     
         )     

Improved recovery   

247    

Extensions and discoveries   

24    

Purchases and divestitures   

210    

Total additions excluding price
      revisions   

463    

Price revisions   

(127    
     
         )     

Total additions including price
      revisions   

336    

Revisions of Previous
Estimates    

  In 2008, Occidental experienced a
reduction, before the effect of price revisions, of 18 million BOE of proved reserves through negative revisions of previous
estimates, primarily in the Permian Basin, California and Argentina, partially offset by positive revisions in the Middle East/North
Africa.  Occidental experienced an additional negative net price-related revision of 127 million BOE that was attributable to
changes in the prices of oil and gas from year-end 2007 to year-end 2008.  Negative domestic price revisions were partially offset
by positive price revisions in the Middle East/North Africa as a result of the impact of PSCs.  Oil price changes affect proved
reserves recorded by Occidental.  For example, when oil prices increase, less oil volume is required to recover costs under PSCs,
which would result in a reduction of Occidental's share of proved reserves.  Conversely, when oil prices drop, Occidental's share of
proved reserves would increase for these PSCs.  Oil and natural gas price changes also tend to affect the economic lives of proved
reserves, primarily in domestic properties, in a manner partially offsetting the PSC reserve volume changes.  Apart from the effects
of product prices, Occidental believes its approach to interpreting technical data regarding proved oil and gas reserves makes it
more likely that future proved reserve revisions will be positive rather than negative.  

Improved
Recovery    

  In 2008, Occidental added reserves of 247
million BOE through improved recovery.  In the United States, improved recovery additions were 146 million BOE.  Latin America
additions were 52 million BOE and Middle East/North Africa added 49 million BOE.  These improved recovery additions were
attributable to EOR techniques, such as CO 2 , water and steam injection programs, as well as Occidental's ongoing
development programs.  

16  

Extensions and
Discoveries    

  Occidental also obtains reserve additions
from extensions and discoveries, which are dependent on successful exploitation programs.  In 2008, as a result of such programs,
Occidental added proved reserves of 24 million BOE, primarily associated with its California operations.  

  The success of extension and discovery
projects depends on reservoir characteristics and technology improvements, as well as oil and gas prices, capital costs and
operating costs. Many of these factors are outside of management's control, and will affect whether or not these historical sources
of proved reserve additions continue at similar levels.  

Purchases and
Divestitures of Proved Reserves    

  In 2008, Occidental purchased proved
reserves of 210 million BOE (207 million BOE net of divestitures), all of which were in the United States.  Occidental continues to
add reserves through acquisitions when properties are available at prices it deems reasonable.  As market conditions change, the
available supply of properties may increase or decrease accordingly.  

Proved Undeveloped
Reserves    

  In 2008, Occidental had proved
undeveloped reserve additions of 317 million BOE resulting from improved recovery, extensions and discoveries and purchases,
primarily in the Midcontinent and Rockies, the Permian Basin, Elk Hills, and Oman .   These proved undeveloped reserve
additions were offset by reserves transfers of 99 million BOE to the proved developed category as a result of the 2008 development
programs.  In the United States, the Elk Hills and Permian Basin properties both transferred 22 million BOE into proved developed
reserves from proved undeveloped reserves .   

Reserves Evaluation and Review
Process    

  A senior corporate officer of Occidental
is responsible for the internal audit and review of its oil and gas reserves data.  In addition, a Corporate Reserves Review
Committee (Reserves Committee) has been established, consisting of senior corporate officers, to monitor and review Occidental's oil
and gas reserves.  The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee of Occidental's Board of Directors periodically throughout
the year.  Occidental has retained Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott), independent petroleum engineering consultants, to review
its annual oil and gas reserve estimation processes since 2003.  

  In 2008, Ryder Scott compared
Occidental s methods and procedures for estimating oil and gas reserves to generally accepted industry standards and reviewed
certain pertinent facts interpreted and assumptions made in estimating the proved reserves volumes, preparing the economic
evaluations and determining reserves classifications.  Ryder Scott reviewed the specific application of such methods and procedures
for selected oil and gas properties considered to be a valid representation of Occidental s total reserves portfolio.  In 2008,
Ryder Scott reviewed approximately 22 percent of Occidental s proved oil and gas reserves.  Since being engaged in 2003, Ryder
Scott has reviewed the specific application of Occidental s reserve estimation methods and procedures for approximately 66
percent of Occidental s proved oil and gas reserves.  

  Based on its reviews, including the data,
technical processes and interpretations presented by Occidental, Ryder Scott has concluded that the overall procedures and
methodologies utilized in determining the proved reserves for the reviewed properties as estimated by Occidental are reasonable and
consistent with generally accepted industry standards and comply with current Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) standards.
Ryder Scott has not been engaged to render an opinion as to the reasonableness of reserves quantities reported by
Occidental.  

Industry Outlook   

  The petroleum industry is highly
competitive and subject to significant volatility due to numerous market forces affecting supply and demand.  Worldwide oil prices
experienced a high degree of volatility during 2008.  WTI settled at $145.31 per barrel on July 3, 2008, up from $95.98 per barrel
as of December 31, 2007, and then dropped to $44.60 per barrel at the end of 2008.  While many factors precipitated these price
fluctuations, the worldwide drop in demand for oil caused by the global economic crisis appears to have been the major contributor
to the significant and steady drop in oil prices in the second half of 2008.  

  In the near term, a continued global
economic downturn could have a depressing effect on oil prices, while recently announced and enacted production cuts by OPEC members
and certain other producing nations, as well as other potential similar future actions of these countries, could offset the effects
of falling demand.  In the longer term, a recovery in global economic conditions should result in increased demand, which, coupled
with concerns about supply availability, could result in higher prices.  A lower long-term demand growth rate could result in lower
oil prices.  The factors discussed above make it impossible to predict the future direction of oil prices with a reliable degree of
certainty.  However, Occidental is adjusting to current economic conditions by reducing its operating expenses and adjusting capital
expenditures with the goal of keeping returns well above its cost of capital.  Typical industry response to sustained deterioration
in product prices would be to limit drilling and other growth activities.  

  While local supply and demand
fundamentals, as well as availability of transportation capacity from producing areas, are decisive factors affecting domestic
natural gas prices over the long term, day-to-day prices may be more volatile in the futures markets, such as on the NYMEX and other
exchanges, making it difficult to forecast prices with any degree of confidence.  Over the last ten years, the NYMEX gas price has
averaged approximately $5.72 per Mcf.  

CHEMICAL SEGMENT   

   Business Environment   

  The chemical segment earnings increased
in 2008 despite the deepening global economic downturn.  Higher prices and margins for caustic soda were the primary drivers of the
earnings improvement.  Increased demand for and competitiveness of domestically produced products in export markets, aided by
favorable feedstock prices and foreign currency exchange rates, also contributed to the improved earnings.  Partially  

17  

offsetting these improvements was the continued fallout
from the eroding United States housing market, which resulted in lower domestic demand and earnings in the PVC business.  

Business Review   

    Basic Chemicals    

  During 2008, demand and pricing for basic
chemical products generally remained strong, although U.S. chlorine demand fell further compared to 2007 due to the acceleration of
the economic downturn late in the year.  Exports of chlorine-derived products remained steady throughout 2008 due to the weakness of
the U.S. dollar along with various feedstock cost advantages.  Domestic industry demand for caustic soda in 2008 remained relatively
stable until the fourth quarter when demand weakened due to the slowing economic conditions.  The tight caustic supply during 2008
was due in part to the demand weakness of the co-produced product chlorine.  Caustic soda exports also remained strong throughout
the year.  As a result, caustic soda pricing increased each quarter of 2008, which enabled the industry to realize improved margins
over 2007.  OxyChem s chlor-alkali operating rate for 2008 was 85 percent of capacity, which was higher than the industry
average operating rate, but lower than the 2007 operating rate of 92 percent.  

Vinyls    

  Domestic demand for PVC in 2008 was 17
percent below 2007 as a result of the significant slump in housing and automotive industries.  This decline was partially offset by
exports, which were up 27 percent in 2008 over 2007, resulting in an overall decline in PVC demand of 13 percent.  Compared to 2007,
PVC prices increased 24 percent, but a 16-percent increase in ethylene costs and a significant volume decline resulted in lower
earnings in the PVC business.  

Industry Outlook   

  Future performance will depend on the
recovery of domestic housing and construction markets, global economic recovery, the competitiveness of the United States in the
world markets and feedstock and energy pricing.  

Basic Chemicals    

  Operating rates would continue to be
challenged throughout the year if demand remains suppressed in chlorine, vinyls and various chlorine-derivative markets.  Demand for
basic chemical products could decline further in 2009 as the U.S. housing, automotive and durable goods sectors are expected to
remain weak.  Margins are expected to be similar to 2008 as pricing for caustic soda is generally expected to remain strong.  The
anticipated strong caustic pricing is due to the continued weak demand for its co-product chlorine.  

Vinyls    

  Industry-wide PVC operating rates are
expected to be lower in 2009 as a result of weak demand, especially in housing.  In addition, exports are expected to decline in
2009 due to raw material cost parity with other industrialized regions.  

MIDSTREAM, MARKETING AND OTHER
SEGMENT   

   Business Environment   

  The midstream and marketing segment
gathers, treats, processes, transports, stores, trades and markets crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, condensate and CO 2  and
generates and markets power.  Midstream and marketing s 2008 earnings increased, reflecting an increase in gas processing
margins at the Dolphin Pipeline investment.  

Business Review   

    Oil and Gas Marketing and
Trading    

  The marketing and trading group markets
substantially all of Occidental s oil and gas production.  Marketing and trading earnings are affected primarily by margins in
oil and gas transportation and storage programs.  These operations periodically use derivative instruments to maximize realized
prices for Occidental's products and in third-party marketing and trading activities.  

  In 2008, Occidental s marketing
operations earnings declined due to lower margins in oil marketing.  

Gas Processing Plants and
CO 2  Fields and Facilities    

  Occidental processes its and third-party
domestic wet gas to extract NGLs and other gas by-products, including CO 2 , and deliver dry gas to pipelines.  Margins
result from the difference between inlet costs of gas and market prices for NGLs.  

  In June 2008, Occidental signed an
agreement for a third party to construct a west Texas gas processing plant and pipeline infrastructure that will provide
CO 2  for Occidental s EOR projects in the Permian Basin.  Occidental will own and operate the new facility and
pipeline system and expects to incur capital expenditures of approximately $1.1 billion over several years of which it had spent
approximately $115 million as of December 31, 2008.  

  Occidental s 2008 earnings from
these operations improved due to higher gas processing margins.  

18  

Pipeline
Transportation    

  Margin and cash flow from pipeline
transportation operations mainly reflect volumes shipped.  The Dolphin Pipeline investment contributes significantly to pipeline
transportation results.  See "Oil and Gas Segment  Middle East/North Africa   Dolphin Project."  In August
2008, Occidental purchased a minority interest in a North American oil and gas pipeline entity for approximately $330
million.  

  Occidental s 2008 pipeline
transportation earnings improved due to increased earnings from the Dolphin Pipeline investment.  

Power Generation
Facilities    

  Earnings from power generation facilities
represent the sales of excess steam and power to third parties.  

  Occidental s 2008 earnings from
these facilities increased due to higher margins between the selling prices of power and steam and the cost of gas used in their
production.  

Industry Outlook   

  Occidental expects future performance of
the midstream and marketing segment to remain relatively stable unless it makes significant acquisitions or
dispositions.  

CORPORATE   

  In July 2008, Occidental purchased a
15-percent interest in the Joslyn Oil Sands Project (Joslyn) in northern Alberta, Canada, for approximately $500 million in
cash.  

SEGMENT RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS   

  Segment earnings generally exclude income
taxes, interest income, interest expense, environmental remediation expenses, unallocated corporate expenses and discontinued
operations, but include gains and losses from dispositions of segment assets and income from the segments' equity investments.
Seasonality is not a primary driver of changes in Occidental's consolidated quarterly earnings during the year.  

  The following table sets forth the sales
and earnings of each operating segment and corporate items:  

In millions, except per share amounts  

(a)   
     
        Intersegment sales are generally made at prices
      approximately equal to those that the selling entity is able to obtain in third-party transactions and eliminate upon
      consolidation.   

(b)   
     
        The 2008 amount includes a $599 million fourth
      quarter pre-tax charge for asset impairments, including undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen and domestic producing
      properties (included in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense), and a $58 million fourth quarter pre-tax charge for
      the termination of rig contracts. The 2007 amount includes an after-tax gain of $412 million from the sale of Occidental's
      interest in a Russian joint venture, an after-tax gain of $112 million from certain litigation settlements, a pre-tax gain of
      $103 million from the sale of exploration properties, a pre-tax gain of $35 million from the sale of miscellaneous domestic
      oil and gas interests and a $74 million pre-tax charge for exploration impairments. The 2008, 2007 and 2006 amounts include
      interest income of $9 million, $10 million and $10 million, respectively, from loans made to an equity
      investee.   

(c)   
     
        The 2008 amount includes a pre-tax charge of $90
      million for plant closure and impairments.   

(d)   
     
        The 2007 and 2006 amounts include $167 million and
      $31 million, respectively, of interest charges to redeem or purchase and retire various debt issues.   

(e)   
     
        The 2008 amount includes tax benefits of $148
      million resulting from relinquishment of exploration properties. As a result of changes in compensation programs in 2006,
      Occidental wrote off approximately $40 million of the related deferred tax asset that had been recognized in the financial
      statements prior to the changes.   

(f)   
     
        The 2007 amount includes a $326 million pre-tax
      gain from the sale of Occidental s remaining investment in Lyondell Chemical Company (Lyondell), a $47 million pre-tax
      charge for a plant closure and related environmental remediation reserve and a $25 million pre-tax severance charge. The 2006
      amount includes a $90 million pre-tax gain from the sale of 10 million shares of Lyondell and a $108 million pre-tax gain
      related to litigation settlements.   

(g)   
     
        In June 2007, Occidental completed an exchange of
      oil and gas interests in Horn Mountain with BP p.l.c. (BP) for oil and gas interests in the Permian Basin and a gas processing
      plant in Texas. Occidental also sold its oil and gas interests in Pakistan to BP. The 2007 amount includes after-tax income of
      $326 million related to these transactions and their operating results and a $4 million after-tax charge from assets
      classified to discontinued operations in 2006. In January 2006, Occidental completed the merger of Vintage into a subsidiary
      and classified certain assets and liabilities as held for sale. In May 2006, Ecuador terminated Occidental s contract for
      the operation of Block 15. The 2006 amount includes a $253 million after-tax loss for Ecuador and the Vintage properties held
      for sale (and subsequently sold in 2006) and $242 million after-tax income for the operations of Horn Mountain and
      Pakistan.   

19  

Oil and Gas   

The following tables set forth the sales
volumes and production of oil and liquids and natural gas per day for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.
The differences between the sales volumes and production per day are generally due to the timing of shipments at Occidental s
international locations where product is loaded onto tankers.  Sale at these locations is not recognized until a tanker is loaded
and title passes.  

(See footnotes following the Average Sales Price
table)  

(See footnotes following the Average Sales Price
table)  

(a)   
     
        Natural gas volumes have been converted to BOE
      based on energy content of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of gas to one barrel of oil.   

(b)   
     
        Occidental has classified its Pakistan (in 2007),
      Horn Mountain (in 2007) and Ecuador (in 2006) operations as discontinued operations on a retrospective application basis and
      excluded them from this table. Excluded production from Pakistan operations averaged 17,000 BOE per day in 2006. Excluded
      production from Horn Mountain operations averaged 13,000 BOE per day in 2006. Excluded production from Ecuador operations
      averaged 43,000 BOE per day for the first five months of 2006. Also excluded is production from a Russian joint venture (sold
      in January 2007), which averaged 27,000 BOE per day in 2006.   

(c)   
     
        These prices exclude the impact of income taxes
      owed by Occidental but paid by governmental entities on its behalf.   

(d)   
     
        Includes dry hole write-offs and lease impairments
      of $325 million in 2008, $247 million in 2007 and $115 million in 2006.   

20  

Oil and gas segment earnings in 2008 were
$10.7 billion, compared to $8.0 billion in 2007.  The increase in segment earnings reflects higher average oil and natural gas
prices and increased oil and gas volumes, which were offset by higher operating expenses and production taxes and increased
depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD A) rates.  Oil and gas segment earnings in 2008 include pre-tax foreign exchange
gains of $74 million, a pre-tax charge of $599 million for asset impairments consisting of undeveloped acreage in Argentina and
Yemen and impairments of producing properties in the U.S. and a pre-tax charge of $58 million for termination of rig
contracts.  

  Average consolidated production costs for
2008, excluding taxes other than on income, were $12.13 per BOE, compared to the average 2007 production cost of $10.37 per BOE. The
increases resulted from higher production, maintenance and workover costs.  

  Oil and gas segment earnings in 2007 were
$8.0 billion, compared to $6.7 billion in 2006.  Oil and gas segment earnings in 2007 included an after-tax gain of $412 million
from the sale of Occidental s interest in a Russian joint venture, an after-tax gain of $112 million from certain litigation
settlements, a pre-tax gain of $103 million from the sale of exploration properties, a pre-tax gain of $35 million from the sale of
miscellaneous domestic oil and gas interests and a $74 million pre-tax loss from the impairment of properties.  In addition to the
matters discussed above, oil and gas segment earnings for 2007, compared to 2006, reflected higher crude oil prices and higher oil
and gas production, partially offset by increased DD A rates and higher operating and exploration expenses.  

Chemical   

Chemical segment earnings in 2008 were
$669 million, compared to $601 million in 2007.  The increase in segment earnings is primarily due to higher caustic soda margins,
partially offset by lower volumes in chlorine, caustic soda and PVC and a $90 million charge for plant closure and
impairments.  

  Chemical segment earnings in 2007 were
$601 million, compared to $906 million in 2006.  The decrease in segment earnings was primarily due to lower margins in
PVC.  

Midstream, Marketing and
Other   

Midstream and marketing segment earnings
in 2008 were $520 million, compared to $367 million in 2007.  The increase in segment earnings in 2008 reflects higher income from
the Dolphin Pipeline and higher margins in gas processing.  

  The increase in segment earnings in 2007,
compared to 2006, was primarily due to higher natural gas trading margins and, to a lesser degree, increased crude oil trading
margins.  

SIGNIFICANT ITEMS AFFECTING
EARNINGS   

  The following table sets forth, for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the effects of significant transactions and events affecting Occidental s
earnings that vary widely and unpredictably in nature, timing and amount:  

Significant Items Affecting
Earnings   

(a)   
     
        Amounts shown after tax.   

TAXES   

  Deferred tax liabilities, net of deferred
tax assets of $1.4 billion, were $2.5 billion at December 31, 2008.  The current portion of the deferred tax assets of $200 million
is included in prepaid expenses and other.  The deferred tax assets, net of allowances, are expected to be realized through future
operating income and reversal of temporary differences.  

21  

Worldwide Effective Tax
Rate   

  The following table sets forth the
calculation of the worldwide effective tax rate for income from continuing operations:  

(a)   
     
        Revenues, oil and gas pre-tax income and income
      tax expense include income taxes owed by Occidental but paid by governmental entities on its behalf of $2.1 billion, $1.3
      billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

Occidental s 2008 worldwide tax rate
was 40 percent, which is comparable to 2007.  

  Occidental s 2007 worldwide
effective tax rate was 41 percent.  The decrease in the income tax rate in 2007, compared to 2006, resulted from lower taxes on the
2007 sale of certain properties.  

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS   

  The changes in the following components
of Occidental's results of operations are discussed below:  

Selected Revenue and Other Income
Items   

The increase in net sales in 2008,
compared to 2007, reflects higher average oil and natural gas prices and higher oil and gas volumes, including increased volumes
from the Dolphin Project, offset by lower volumes from PSCs and the new Libya contract.  

  The increase in net sales in 2007,
compared to 2006, reflects higher crude oil prices and increased oil and gas volumes, including production from the start-up of the
Dolphin Project in the third quarter of 2007.  

  Interest, dividends and other income in
2007 and 2006 included gains related to litigation settlements of $112 million and $108 million, respectively.  

  Gains on disposition of assets, net in
2007, includes a $326 million gain from the sale of 21 million shares of Lyondell, a $412 million gain from the sale of
Occidental s interest in a Russian joint venture and a gain of $103 million from the sale of exploration properties in West
Africa.  

  Gains on disposition of assets, net in
2006, includes a gain of $90 million from the sale of 10 million shares of Lyondell stock.  

Selected Expense Items   

Cost of sales increased in 2008, compared
to 2007, due to higher oil and natural gas volumes, as well as higher maintenance, workover, field operating and feedstock
costs.  

  Cost of sales increased in 2007, compared
to 2006, due to higher oil and natural gas production and maintenance costs and higher chemicals feedstock costs.  

  Selling, general and administrative and
other operating expenses decreased in 2008, compared to 2007, due to a decrease in equity compensation expense and foreign exchange
gains of $91 million, which were partially offset by rig contract termination charges of $58 million.  

  Selling, general and administrative and
other operating expenses increased in 2007, compared to 2006, due to 2007 severance charges and higher stock-based and incentive
compensation expense.  The increase in stock-based and incentive compensation expense in 2007, compared to 2006, resulted from a
58-percent increase in Occidental's stock price and higher net income, which increased the performance measures used to value
certain of the existing stock-based awards, partially offset by a decrease in the value of awards granted in 2007.  

  DD A increased in 2008, compared to
2007, due to the increase in sales volumes, mainly from the Dolphin Project, and higher DD A rates caused by the cost of new
proved reserve additions being higher than the existing average rates, especially in Latin America and the Middle East/North Africa.
The 2008 amount also included a charge of $42 million for domestic asset impairments.  

  DD A increased in 2007, compared to
2006, due to increased sales volumes, mainly from the Dolphin Project, and higher costs of new proved reserve additions resulting in
a higher DD A rate.  

  The increase in taxes other than on
income in 2008, compared to 2007, reflects higher production taxes resulting from higher net sales as well as an increase in ad
valorem taxes due to increases in oil and gas property values.  

22  

Exploration expense decreased in 2008,
compared to 2007, due to decreases in Colombia and Middle East/North Africa.  The 2007 amount included expenses for exploration
properties in West Africa, which were sold in the third quarter of 2007.  

  Exploration expense increased in 2007,
compared to 2006, due to increases in the Colombia and Middle East/North Africa exploration programs and impairments in
California.  

  Interest and debt expense in 2007 and
2006 included pre-tax debt repayment expenses of $167 million and $35 million, respectively.  Excluding the effect of the 2007 debt
repayment charges, interest expense decreased in 2008, compared to 2007, due to lower average debt levels and lower effective
interest rates.  

Selected Other Items   

The increase in the provision for income
taxes in 2008, compared to 2007, was due to higher income before taxes in 2008.  The 2008 worldwide effective tax rate was
comparable to 2007.  

  The increase in the provision for income
taxes in 2007, compared to 2006, was due to higher income before taxes in 2007.  

  The increase in income from equity
investments in 2008, compared to 2007, was due to higher income from the Dolphin Pipeline.  

  The decrease in income from equity
investments in 2007, compared to 2006, was due to the sale of Occidental s interest in Lyondell and a Russian joint
venture.  

  Discontinued operations in 2007 included
after-tax income of $326 million for the operations of Horn Mountain and Pakistan that were sold as part of a series of transactions
with BP as well as the results of operations of these assets before disposal.  

  Discontinued operations in 2006 included
a $296 million after-tax loss for Ecuador after Occidental's contract for its Block 15 operations was terminated in May 2006.  The
2006 amount also included $285 million of after-tax income for the operations of Horn Mountain and Pakistan as well as the Vintage
assets that were held for sale and subsequently sold in 2006.  

CONSOLIDATED ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
POSITION   

  The changes in the following components
of Occidental s balance sheet are discussed below:  

Selected Balance Sheet
Components   

Assets   

  See "Liquidity and Capital
Resources   Cash Flow Analysis" for discussion about the change in cash and cash equivalents.  

  The decrease in trade receivables, net
was due to lower oil and natural gas prices offset slightly by higher volumes during the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to the
fourth quarter of 2007.  The increase in marketing and trading assets and other was attributable to fair value adjustments on
derivatives and increases of federal tax and joint venture receivables.  The increase in investments in unconsolidated entities
reflected the 2008 minority interest acquisitions in a North American oil and gas pipeline entity and a gas processing plant and
pipeline and the increase in equity income from the Dolphin Project pipeline investment.  

  The increase in property, plant and
equipment, net was due to capital expenditures, the purchases of oil and gas interests from Plains and an interest in Joslyn, the
Libya signature bonus and the acquisitions of other various oil and gas interests, partially offset by 2008 DD A.  

23  

Liabilities and Stockholders'
Equity   

  The increase in current maturities of
long-term debt and notes payable is due to the 2009 maturities of the Dolphin Energy loans and Occidental's 10 1/8-percent senior
notes.  The decrease in accounts payable reflected lower crude oil prices and volumes in the marketing and trading operations during
the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007.  The increase in accrued liabilities was due to the accrual of
the current portion of the unpaid Libya signature bonus and higher ad valorem taxes, rig contract termination, payroll and
contractor accruals, partially offset by fair value adjustments on derivatives.  The increase in long-term debt, net was due to the
2008 issuance of $1 billion of 7-percent senior notes, partially offset by the reduction resulting from the Dolphin loans and the 10
1/8-percent senior notes being moved to current maturities.  The increase in deferred credits and other liabilities   income
taxes is due to the additional deferred taxes recorded as part of the Joslyn acquisition.  The increase in stockholders  equity
reflected net income for 2008, partially offset by 2008 treasury stock repurchases of approximately 19.8 million shares and dividend
payments.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL
RESOURCES   

  At December 31, 2008, Occidental had
approximately $1.8 billion in cash on hand.  Income and cash flows are largely dependent on oil and gas prices, which have fallen
steeply since mid-2008, and sales volumes. Occidental believes that cash on hand and cash generated from operations will be
sufficient to fund its operating needs, planned capital expenditures, dividends and debt payments.  If needed, Occidental could
access its existing credit facilities.  

  In the third quarter of 2008, Occidental
filed a shelf registration statement which facilitates issuing senior debt securities. In October 2008, Occidental issued $1 billion
of 7-percent senior notes receiving $985 million of net proceeds using this shelf registration.  Interest on the notes will be
payable semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2009.  The notes will mature on November
1, 2013.  As of December 31, 2008, no other securities were issued under the shelf.  

  In September 2006, Occidental amended and
restated its $1.5 billion bank credit (Credit Facility) to, among other things, lower the interest rate and extend the term to
September 2011.  In September 2007, participating lenders extended the maturity date on $1.4 billion of aggregate loan commitments
under the Credit Facility to September 2012.  The Credit Facility provides for the termination of the loan commitments and requires
immediate repayment of any outstanding amounts if certain events of default occur or if Occidental files for bankruptcy.  Occidental
did not draw down any amounts under the Credit Facility during 2008.  Available but unused lines of committed bank credit totaled
approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2008.  

  None of Occidental's committed bank
credits contain material adverse change (MAC) clauses or debt rating triggers that could restrict Occidental's ability to borrow
under these lines.  Occidental's credit facilities and debt agreements do not contain rating triggers that could terminate bank
commitments or accelerate debt in the event of a ratings downgrade.  Up to $350 million of the Credit Facility is available in the
form of letters of credit.  

  As of December 31, 2008, under the most
restrictive covenants of certain financing agreements, Occidental's capacity for additional unsecured borrowing was approximately
$65.3 billion, and the capacity for the payment of cash dividends and other distributions on, and for acquisitions of, Occidental's
capital stock was approximately $25.1 billion, assuming that such dividends, distributions and acquisitions were made without
incurring additional borrowing.  Since 2007, Occidental s long-term senior unsecured debt has been rated A by Fitch Ratings. In
2008, Occidental's long-term senior unsecured debt was upgraded from A- to A by Standard and Poor s Ratings Services, from A3
to A2 by Moody s Investors Service and from A (low) to A by Dominion Bond Rating Service.  A security rating is not a
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating
organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  

  In May 2007, Occidental redeemed all $276
million of the outstanding principal amount of its 8.25-percent Vintage senior notes due 2012.  In January 2007, Occidental
completed cash tender offers for portions of various debt instruments totaling $659 million in principal amount.  The redemption and
repurchases resulted in a pre-tax interest expense of $167 million.  

Cash Flow Analysis   

The most important sources of the
increase in operating cash flow in 2008, compared to 2007, were higher average oil and natural gas prices and, to a lesser extent,
higher oil and gas sales volumes.  The increased operating cash flow also reflects the higher caustic soda margins and higher
margins in gas processing in 2008 in the chemical and midstream and marketing businesses, respectively.  In 2008, compared to 2007,
Occidental s global realized crude oil prices increased by 36 percent and realized natural gas prices increased by 23 percent
in the U.S., where approximately 70 percent of Occidental's natural gas was produced.  Occidental s oil and gas sales volumes
increased by 5 percent in 2008, mainly due to the increase in production from the Dolphin Project.  

  The increase in operating cash flow in
2007, compared to 2006, resulted from higher oil prices and higher oil and gas sales volumes partially offset by the effects of
lower chemical margins, particularly PVC, and reduced cash flow from discontinued operations.  In 2007, Occidental s realized
crude oil prices increased 12 percent and its oil and gas sales volumes increased by over 4 percent compared to 2006.  The increase
in sales volumes was mainly due to the start-up of the Dolphin Project production in the third quarter of 2007.  

24  

Increases, in each case, from the
previous year, in the costs of producing oil and gas, such as purchased goods and services, and higher utility, maintenance,
workover and gas plant costs, and higher production and ad valorem taxes partially offset the effect of increases in realized oil
and natural gas prices and volumes in both 2008 and 2007.  Other cost elements, such as labor costs and overhead, are not
significant drivers of changes in cash flow because they are relatively stable within a narrow range over the short to intermediate
term.  These cost increases had a much smaller effect on cash flow than the higher oil and gas prices and higher oil and natural gas
sales volumes.  

  Most of Occidental's major chemical
product prices, especially caustic soda, increased in 2008, compared to 2007, which increased margins.  The increase in NGL prices
in 2008, compared to 2007, resulted in higher gas processing margins in the midstream and marketing segment.  The overall impact of
the chemical product price increases and gas processing margins on cash flow was less significant than the increases in oil and gas
prices because the chemical and midstream and marketing segments' earnings and cash flow were significantly smaller than those for
the oil and gas segment.  

  Other non-cash charges to income in 2008,
2007 and 2006 included stock incentive plan amortization, deferred compensation and environmental remediation accruals.  The 2008
amount also included a charge of $557 million for asset impairments of undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen and a $90 million
charge for chemical plant closure and impairments.  

(a)   
     
        Excludes acquisitions, which are included in
      other investing activities, net.   

Occidental s capital spending
estimate for 2009 is approximately $3.5 billion and will focus on the goal of keeping Occidental's returns well above its cost of
capital given current oil and gas prices and the cost environment.  Occidental has accumulated a sizable inventory of projects, of
which a substantial portion can be delayed until industry costs are aligned with product prices.  Occidental will continue to fully
fund much of its Middle East operations, the exploration programs in California, Utah and Argentina, and the midstream and marketing
and CO 2  programs, which it believes have higher return and growth potential.  

  The 2008 other investing activities, net
amount includes cash payments for the acquisitions of oil and gas interests from Plains for $2.7 billion, an interest in Joslyn for
approximately $500 million, a minority interest in a North American oil and gas pipeline entity for approximately $330 million and
approximately $700 million of various other acquisitions.  The 2008 amount also includes the first payment of the signature bonus
under the Libya agreements of $450 million.  

  The 2007 other investing activities, net
amount includes cash proceeds of $672 million from the sale of 21 million shares of Lyondell, $485 million received from the sale of
Occidental s interest in a Russian joint venture, $509 million from the sale of other businesses and properties, and $250
million from the sale of auction rate securities.  The 2007 amount also includes the cash paid for the acquisitions of various oil
and gas and chemical interests, a Permian Basin common carrier pipeline system and a gas processing plant in Texas totaling $1.4
billion.  

  The 2006 other investing activities, net
amount includes the cash payments associated with the acquisition of Vintage and a property acquisition from Plains, partially
offset by cash proceeds from the Vintage assets subsequently sold and from the sale of Lyondell shares.  

  Commitments at December 31, 2008, for
major fixed and determinable capital expenditures during 2009 and thereafter were approximately $1.1 billion.  Occidental expects to
fund these commitments and capital expenditures with cash from operations.  

The 2008 amount includes the net proceeds
of $985 million from the issuance of $1 billion of 7-percent senior notes.  The 2008 amount also includes $1.5 billion of cash paid
for repurchases of 19.8 million shares of Occidental s common stock at an average price of $76.33 per share.  

  The 2007 amount includes net debt
payments of $1.2 billion, including the repurchase of various debt issues under cash tender offers and the redemption of Vintage
notes.  The 2007 amount also included $1.1 billion of cash paid for repurchases of 20.6 million shares of Occidental s common
stock at an average price of $54.75 per share.  

  The 2006 amount consists of $1.5 billion
of cash paid for stock repurchases and net debt payments of approximately $900 million.  

  Occidental also paid common stock
dividends of $940 million in 2008, $765 million in 2007 and $646 million in 2006.  

OFF-BALANCE-SHEET
ARRANGEMENTS   

  In the course of its business activities,
Occidental pursues a number of projects and transactions to meet its core business objectives.  Occidental also makes commitments on
behalf of unconsolidated entities.  Some of these projects, transactions and commitments (off-balance-sheet arrangements) are not
reflected on Occidental s balance sheets, as a result of the application of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to
their specific terms.  The following is a description of the business purpose and nature of these off-balance-sheet
arrangements.  

25  

Dolphin Project   

  See "Oil and Gas Segment   Business
Review   Middle East/North Africa   Dolphin Project" and "Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment   Business Review
  Dolphin Project" for further information about the structure of the Dolphin Project.  

  In July 2005, Dolphin Energy entered into
a bridge loan in an amount of $2.45 billion.  The new bridge loan had a term of four years as a revolving credit facility through
April 2008 and was converted to a term loan thereafter. In September 2005, Dolphin Energy entered into an agreement with banks to
provide a $1.0 billion facility to fund the construction of a certain portion of the Dolphin Project.  Occidental guarantees 24.5
percent of both of these obligations.  At December 31, 2008, Occidental s portion of the bridge loan and financing facility was
$845 million.  Of this amount, Occidental had recorded $600 million as its proportionately consolidated share on the balance sheet
at December 31, 2008.  At December 31, 2008, the remaining $245 million of the bridge loan and financing facility represents a
substantial majority of Occidental's guarantees discussed in the "Guarantees" section.  

Ecuador   

  In Ecuador, Occidental has a 14-percent
interest in the Oleoducto de Crudos Pesados Ltd. (OCP) oil export pipeline, which Occidental records as an equity investment.  The
project was funded in part by senior project debt, which is to be repaid with the proceeds of ship-or-pay tariffs of certain
upstream producers in Ecuador.  In May 2006, Ecuador terminated Occidental's contract for the operation of Block 15, which comprised
all of its oil-producing operations in the country, and seized Occidental's Block 15 assets.  As of December 31, 2008, Occidental's
net investment in and advances to the project totaled $66 million and Occidental had accrued $263 million for related obligations,
including all tariffs.  

Leases   

  Occidental has entered into various
operating-lease agreements, mainly for railcars, power plants, manufacturing facilities and office space.  Occidental leases assets
when leasing offers greater operating flexibility.   Lease payments are expensed mainly as cost of sales.  For more information, see
"Contractual Obligations."  

Guarantees   

  Occidental has guaranteed equity
investees' debt and has entered into various other guarantees including performance bonds, letters of credit, indemnities,
commitments and other forms of guarantees provided by Occidental to third parties, mainly to provide assurance that OPC or its
subsidiaries and affiliates will meet their various obligations (guarantees).  

Contractual Obligations   

  The table below summarizes and
cross-references certain contractual obligations that are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008
and/or disclosed in the accompanying Notes.  

(a)   
     
        Excludes unamortized debt discount and interest
      expense on the debt.  As of December 31, 2008, interest on long-term debt totaling $899 million is payable in the following
      years (in millions): 2009 - $147, 2010 and 2011 - $252, 2012 and 2013 - $187, 2014 and thereafter - $313.   

(b)   
     
        Includes accounts payable, certain accrued
      liabilities and obligations under postretirement benefit and deferred compensation plans.   

(c)   
     
        Amounts have not been reduced for sublease rental
      income.   

(d)   
     
        Amounts represent long-term agreements to purchase
      goods and services used in the normal course of business that are enforceable and legally binding.  Some of these arrangements
      involve take-or-pay commitments but they do not represent debt obligations.  Material long-term purchase contracts are
      discounted at 6.1-percent discount rate.   

(e)   
     
        Amounts exclude purchase obligations related to
      oil and gas marketing and trading activities where an offsetting sales position exists.   

LAWSUITS, CLAIMS, COMMITMENTS,
CONTINGENCIES AND RELATED MATTERS   

  OPC or certain of its subsidiaries are
named, in the normal course of business, in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that seek, among other things, compensation
for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive
or declaratory relief.  OPC or certain of its subsidiaries also have been named in proceedings under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) and similar federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws.  These
environmental proceedings seek funding or performance of remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged property damage,
punitive damages, civil penalties and injunctive relief; however, Occidental is usually one of many companies in these proceedings
and has to date been successful in sharing response costs with other financially sound companies. With respect to all such lawsuits,
claims and proceedings, including environmental proceedings, Occidental accrues reserves when it is probable a liability has been
incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.  Environmental matters are further discussed under the caption
"Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures" below.  

26  

Lawsuits have been filed in Nicaragua
against OxyChem and other companies that once manufactured or used a pesticide, dibromochloropropane (DBCP).  These lawsuits claim
damages of several billion dollars for alleged personal injuries.  In the opinion of management, the claims against OxyChem are
without merit because, among other things, the DBCP it manufactured was never sold or used in Nicaragua.  In order to preserve its
jurisdictional defense, OxyChem elected not to make a substantive appearance in these cases.  Nicaraguan courts have entered
judgments of approximately $900 million against four defendants, including OxyChem.  Under Nicaraguan law, the judgments would be
shared equally among the defendants.  The plaintiffs attempted to enforce one judgment in Miami.  In January 2009, the federal
district court in Miami granted summary judgment in favor of OxyChem and refused to enforce the judgment.  OxyChem has no assets in
Nicaragua and, in the opinion of management, no such Nicaraguan judgment would be enforceable in the United States.  

  During the course of its operations,
Occidental is subject to audit by tax authorities for varying periods in various federal, state, local and foreign tax
jurisdictions.  While the audits for taxable years through 2007 have concluded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the 2008
taxable year is currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service pursuant to its compliance assurance program (CAP).
Foreign government tax authorities are in various stages of auditing Occidental, and income taxes for taxable years from 2000
through 2008 remain subject to examination in certain jurisdictions.  During the course of such audits, disputes have arisen and
other disputes may arise as to facts and matters of law.  

  Occidental has entered into agreements
providing for future payments to secure terminal and pipeline capacity, drilling rigs and services, electrical power, steam and
certain chemical raw materials.  Occidental has certain other commitments under contracts, guarantees and joint ventures, including
purchase commitments for goods and services at market-related prices and certain other contingent liabilities.  Occidental's capital
spending estimate for 2009 is approximately $3.5 billion.  At December 31, 2008, commitments for major fixed and determinable
capital expenditures during 2009 and thereafter were approximately $1.1 billion.  

  Occidental has indemnified various
parties against specified liabilities that those parties might incur in the future in connection with purchases and other
transactions that they have entered into with Occidental.  These indemnities usually are contingent upon the other party incurring
liabilities that reach specified thresholds.  As of December 31, 2008, Occidental is not aware of circumstances that it believes
would reasonably be expected to lead to future indemnity claims against it in connection with these transactions that would result
in payments materially in excess of reserves.  

  The ultimate amount of losses and the
timing of any such losses that OPC and its subsidiaries may incur resulting from currently outstanding lawsuits, claims and
proceedings, audits, commitments, contingencies and related matters cannot be determined reliably at this time.  If these matters
were ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts substantially exceeding Occidental s reserves, an outcome not currently
expected, it is possible that such outcome could have a material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial
position or results of operations.  However, after taking into account reserves, management does not expect the ultimate resolution
of any of these matters to have a material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.  

ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES AND
EXPENDITURES   

  Occidental s operations are subject
to stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to improving or maintaining environmental quality.
Occidental s environmental compliance costs have generally increased over time and could continue to rise in the future.
Occidental factors environmental expenditures for its operations into its business planning process as an integral part of producing
quality products responsive to market demand.  

Environmental Remediation   

  The laws that require or address
environmental remediation, including CERCLA and similar federal, state, local and foreign laws, may apply retroactively and
regardless of fault, the legality of the original activities or the current ownership or control of sites.  OPC or certain of its
subsidiaries participate in or actively monitor a range of remedial activities and government or private proceedings under these
laws with respect to alleged past practices at operating, closed and third-party sites.  Remedial activities may include one or more
of the following:  investigation involving sampling, modeling, risk assessment or monitoring; cleanup measures involving removal,
treatment or disposal; or operation and maintenance of remedial systems.  The environmental proceedings seek funding or performance
of remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties, injunctive relief
and government oversight costs.  

  As of December 31, 2008, Occidental
participated in or monitored remedial activities or proceedings at 166 sites.  

  The following table presents
Occidental s environmental remediation reserves as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, grouped in the following four
categories of environmental remediation sites:  (1) sites listed or proposed for listing by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
on the CERCLA National Priorities List (CERCLA NPL); (2) other third-party sites; (3) Occidental-operated sites; and (4)
Occidental's closed or non-operated sites.  

27  

As of December 31, 2008,
Occidental s environmental reserves exceeded $10 million each at 14 of the 166 sites described above, and 115 of the sites had
reserves from $0 to $1 million each.  

  As of December 31, 2008, two landfills in
western New York owned by Occidental accounted for 65 percent of its reserves associated with CERCLA NPL sites.  Maxus Energy
Corporation has retained the liability and indemnified Occidental for 17 of the remaining 38 CERCLA NPL sites.  

  As of December 31, 2008, Maxus has also
retained the liability and indemnified Occidental for 14 of the 76 other third-party sites.  Two of the remaining 62 other
third-party sites   a former copper mining and smelting operation in Tennessee and an active refinery in Louisiana where
Occidental reimburses the current owner and operator for certain remedial activities   accounted for 60 percent of
Occidental s reserves associated with these sites.  

  Five sites   chemical plants in
Kansas, Louisiana and New York and two groups of oil and gas properties in the southwestern United States   accounted for 71
percent of Occidental s reserves associated with its operated sites.  Five other sites   former chemical plants in
Delaware, Michigan, Tennessee and Washington and a closed coal mine in Pennsylvania   accounted for 71 percent of the reserves
associated with Occidental's closed or non-operated sites.  

  The following table shows environmental
reserve activity for the past three years:  

Occidental expects to expend funds
corresponding to about half of the current environmental reserves over the next four years and the balance over the subsequent ten
or more years.  Occidental believes its range of reasonably possible additional loss beyond those liabilities recorded for
environmental remediation at the sites described above could be up to $400 million.  See "Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates   Environmental Liabilities and Expenditures" for additional information.  

Environmental Costs   

  Occidental s environmental costs,
some of which may include estimates, are shown below for each segment for the years ended December 31:  

Operating expenses are incurred on a
continual basis.  Capital expenditures relate to longer-lived improvements in currently operating properties.  Remediation expenses
relate to existing conditions from past operations.  

  Occidental presently estimates capital
expenditures for environmental compliance of approximately $120 million for 2009.  

FOREIGN INVESTMENTS   

  Many of Occidental s assets are
located outside of North America.  At December 31, 2008, the carrying value of Occidental s assets in countries outside North
America aggregated approximately $11.2 billion, or approximately 27 percent of Occidental s total assets at that date.  Of such
assets, approximately $6.9 billion are located in the Middle East/North Africa and approximately $4.3 billion are located in Latin
America.  For the year ended December 31, 2008, net sales outside North America totaled $8.8 billion, or approximately 36 percent of
total net sales.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND
ESTIMATES   

  The process of preparing financial
statements in accordance with GAAP requires the management of Occidental to make estimates and judgments regarding certain items and
transactions.  It is possible that materially different amounts could be recorded if these estimates and judgments change or if the
actual results differ from these estimates and judgments.  Occidental considers the following to be its most critical accounting
policies and estimates that involve the judgment of Occidental s management.  There has been no material change to these
policies over the past three years.  The selection and development of these critical accounting policies and estimates have been
discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

28  

Oil and Gas Properties   

  Occidental uses the successful efforts
method to account for its oil and gas properties.  Under this method, costs of acquiring properties, costs of drilling successful
exploration wells and development costs are capitalized.  The costs of exploratory wells are initially capitalized pending a
determination of whether proved reserves have been found.  At the completion of drilling activities, the costs of exploratory wells
remain capitalized if a determination is made that proved reserves have been found.  If no proved reserves have been found, the
costs of the related exploratory wells are charged to expense.  In some cases, a determination of proved reserves cannot be made at
the completion of drilling, requiring additional testing and evaluation of the wells.  Occidental's practice is to expense the costs
of such exploratory wells if a determination of proved reserves has not been made within a twelve-month period after drilling is
complete.  Occidental has no proved oil and gas reserves for which the determination of commercial viability is subject to the
completion of major additional capital expenditures.  

  Annual lease rentals and geological,
geophysical and seismic costs are expensed as incurred.  

  Proved oil and gas reserves are the
estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, can be
recovered in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions considering future production and
development costs.  Depreciation and depletion of oil and gas producing properties is determined by the unit-of-production
method.  

  Several factors could change
Occidental s proved oil and gas reserves.  Occidental receives a share of production from PSCs to recover its costs and an
additional share for profit.  Occidental s share of production and reserves from these contracts decreases when oil prices rise
and increases when oil prices decline.  Overall, Occidental s net economic benefit from these contracts is greater at higher
oil prices.  In other contractual arrangements, lower product prices may lead to a situation where production of proved reserves
becomes uneconomical.  Estimation of future production and development costs is also subject to change partially due to factors
beyond Occidental's control, such as energy costs and inflation or deflation of oil field service costs.  These factors, in turn,
could lead to changes in the quantity of proved reserves.  An additional factor that could result in a change of proved reserves is
the reservoir decline rates differing from those estimated when the proved reserves were initially recorded.  Occidental's revisions
to proved reserves were negative for 2008, which was largely due to changes in oil and gas prices from year-end 2007 to year-end
2008.  Excluding price revisions, the negative revisions amounted to less than one percent of the total proved reserves for 2008.
Occidental s revisions to proved reserves were negative for 2007 and amounted to less than three percent of the total proved
reserves for the year.  Occidental's revisions to proved reserves have been positive for six of the last ten years.  

  If Occidental s consolidated proved
oil and gas reserves were to change based on the factors mentioned above, the most significant impact would be on the DD A rate,
which is determined using the unit-of-production method.  For example, a 5-percent increase in the amount of consolidated oil and
gas reserves would change the rate from $10.17 per barrel to $9.69 per barrel, which would increase pre-tax income by $106 million
annually.  A 5-percent decrease in the oil and gas reserves would change the rate from $10.17 per barrel to $10.71 per barrel and
would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of $119 million annually.  The change in the DD A rate over the past three years
due to revisions of previous proved reserve estimates has been immaterial.  

  A portion of the carrying value of
Occidental s oil and gas properties is attributable to unproved properties.  At December 31, 2008, the net capitalized costs
attributable to unproved properties were $2.3 billion.  The unproved amounts are not subject to DD A or impairment until a
determination is made as to the existence of proved reserves.  As exploration and development work progresses, if reserves on these
properties are proved, capitalized costs attributable to the properties will be subject to depreciation and depletion.  If the
exploration and development work were to be unsuccessful, or management's plans changed with respect to these properties, as a
result of economic, operating or contractual conditions, the capitalized costs of the related properties would be expensed in the
period in which the determination was made.  The timing of any writedowns of these unproved properties, if warranted, depends upon
management's plans and the nature, timing and extent of future exploration and development activities and their results.  Occidental
believes its current plans and exploration and development efforts will allow it to realize its unproved property balance.
Additionally, Occidental performs impairment tests with respect to its proved properties generally when prices decline other than
temporarily, reserve estimates change significantly or other significant events occur that may impact the ability to realize the
recorded asset amounts.  Impairment tests incorporate a number of assumptions involving expectations of future cash flows, which can
change significantly over time.  These assumptions include estimates of future product prices, which Occidental bases on forward
price curves, estimates of oil and gas reserves and estimates of future expected operating and development costs.  

  The steady increase in oil and gas prices
over the past several years has also caused steep increases in capital and operating costs, including costs of materials and
supplies and oil field services.  The rapid and significant decline in product prices in the second half of 2008 has resulted in
capital and operating costs that are not aligned with current product prices.  Current pricing, coupled with a sustained high
production cost environment, could cause management's plans to change with respect to unproved properties and could cause the
carrying values of proved properties to be unrealizable.  Such circumstances could result in impairments in the carrying values of
proved or unproved properties or both.  

Chemical Assets   

  The most critical accounting policy
affecting Occidental s chemical assets is the determination of the estimated useful lives of its PP E.  Occidental's
chemical plants are depreciated using either the unit-of-production or straight-line method, based upon the estimated useful lives
of the facilities.  The estimated  

29  

useful lives of Occidental s chemical assets, which
range from three years to 50 years, are used to compute depreciation expense and are also used for impairment tests.  The estimated
useful lives used for the chemical facilities are based on the assumption that Occidental will provide an appropriate level of
annual expenditures to ensure productive capacity is sustained.  Without these continued expenditures, the useful lives of these
plants could decrease significantly.  Other factors that could change the estimated useful lives of Occidental s chemical
plants include sustained higher or lower product prices, which are particularly affected by both domestic and foreign competition,
demand, feedstock costs, energy prices, environmental regulations and technological changes.  

  Occidental performs impairment tests on
its assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction in the estimated useful lives or estimated future cash
flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or when management s plans change with respect to
those assets.  

  Occidental's net PP E for chemicals
is approximately $2.5 billion and its depreciation expense for 2009 is expected to be approximately $260 million.  If the estimated
useful lives of Occidental s chemical plants were to decrease based on the factors mentioned above, the most significant impact
would be on depreciation expense.  For example, a reduction in the remaining useful lives of one year would increase depreciation
and reduce pre-tax earnings by approximately $30 million per year.  

Midstream, Marketing and Other
Assets   

  The most critical accounting policies
affecting Occidental s midstream and marketing assets are accounting for derivative instruments and the determination of the
estimated useful lives of its PP E.  

  Derivative instruments are carried at
fair value.  Occidental applies either fair value or cash flow hedge accounting when transactions meet specified criteria for hedge
accounting treatment.  If the derivative does not qualify as a hedge or is not designated as a hedge, any fair value gains or losses
are recognized in earnings.  If the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting and is designated and documented as a hedge, the gain
or loss on the derivative is either recognized in income with an offsetting adjustment to the basis of the item being hedged for
fair value hedges, or deferred in Other Comprehensive Income to the extent the hedge is effective for cash flow hedges.  Cash flow
hedge-realized gains and losses, and any ineffectiveness, are classified within the net sales line item.  Gains and losses are
reported net in the income statement and are also netted on the balance sheets when a right of offset exists.  

  A hedge is regarded as highly effective
and qualifies for hedge accounting if, at inception and throughout its life, it is expected that changes in the fair value or cash
flows of the hedged item are almost fully offset by the changes in the fair value or changes in cash flows of the hedging instrument
and actual effectiveness is within a range of 80 to 125 percent.  In the case of hedging a forecasted transaction, the transaction
must be probable and must present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported net income or loss.
Occidental discontinues hedge accounting when it determines that a derivative has ceased to be highly effective as a hedge; when the
derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised; when the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid; or when a forecasted
transaction is no longer deemed probable.  

  Occidental's midstream and marketing
assets are depreciated using either the unit-of-production or straight-line method, based upon the estimated useful lives of the
assets.  Occidental performs impairment tests on its assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction in the
estimated useful lives or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or when
management s plans change with respect to those assets.  

Environmental Liabilities and
Expenditures   

  Environmental expenditures that relate to
current operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate.  Occidental records environmental reserves for estimated remediation
costs that relate to existing conditions from past operations when environmental remediation efforts are probable and the costs can
be reasonably estimated.  In determining the reserves and the range of reasonably possible additional loss, Occidental refers to
currently available information, including relevant past experience, remedial objectives, available technologies, applicable laws
and regulations and cost-sharing arrangements.  Occidental bases environmental reserves on management s estimate of the most
likely cost to be incurred, using the most cost-effective technology reasonably expected to achieve the remedial objective.
Occidental periodically reviews reserves and adjusts them as new information becomes available.  Occidental records environmental
reserves on a discounted basis only when the aggregate amount and the timing of cash payments are reliably determinable at the time
the reserves are established.  The reserve methodology with respect to discounting for a specific site is not modified once it has
been established.  Occidental generally records reimbursements or recoveries of environmental remediation costs in income when
received.  As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Occidental has not accrued any reimbursements or recoveries.  

  Many factors could affect
Occidental s future remediation costs and result in adjustments to its environmental reserves and range of reasonably possible
additional loss.  The most significant are:  (1) cost estimates for remedial activities may be inaccurate; (2) the length of time,
type or amount of remediation necessary to achieve the remedial objective may change due to factors such as site conditions, the
ability to identify and control contaminant sources or the discovery of additional contamination; (3) the regulatory agency may
ultimately reject or modify Occidental s proposed remedial plan; (4) improved or alternative remediation technologies may
change remediation costs; and (5) laws and regulations may impose more or less stringent remediation requirements or affect cost
sharing or allocation of liability.  

  At sites involving multiple parties,
Occidental provides environmental reserves based upon its expected share of liability.  Occidental evaluates the financial viability
of other parties with whom it is alleged to be jointly liable, the degree of their commitment to participate and the consequences to
Occidental of their failure to participate when estimating Occidental's ultimate share of liability.  Based on these
factors,  

30  

Occidental believes that it will not be required to
assume a share of liability of such other potentially responsible parties in an amount that would have a material effect on
Occidental s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of operations.  

  Most cost-sharing arrangements with other
parties fall into one of the following three categories:  (1) environmental proceedings that result in a negotiated or prescribed
allocation of remediation costs among Occidental and other alleged potentially responsible parties; (2) oil and gas ventures in
which each participant pays its proportionate share of remediation costs reflecting its working interest; or (3) contractual
arrangements, typically relating to purchases and sales of properties, in which the parties to the transaction agree to methods of
allocating remediation costs.  

  In all three of these categories,
Occidental records reserves at its expected net cost of remedial activities.  

  In addition to the costs of
investigations and cleanup measures, which often take in excess of ten years at CERCLA NPL sites, Occidental s reserves include
management s estimates of the costs to operate and maintain remedial systems.  If remedial systems are modified over time in
response to significant changes in site-specific data, laws, regulations, technologies or engineering estimates, Occidental reviews
and adjusts its reserves accordingly.  

  If Occidental adjusts the environmental
reserve balance based on the factors described above, the amount of the increase or decrease would be recognized in earnings.  For
example, if the reserve balance were reduced by 10 percent, Occidental would record a pre-tax gain of $44 million.  If the reserve
balance were increased by 10 percent, Occidental would record an additional remediation expense of $44 million.  

Other Loss Contingencies   

  Occidental is involved with numerous
lawsuits, claims, proceedings and audits in the normal course of its operations.  Occidental records a loss contingency for these
matters when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be
reasonably estimated.  In addition, Occidental discloses, in aggregate, its exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded on the
balance sheet for these matters if it is reasonably possible that an additional material loss may be incurred.  Occidental reviews
its loss contingencies on an ongoing basis.  

  These reserves are based on judgments
made by management with respect to the likely outcome of these matters and are adjusted as appropriate.  Management s judgments
could change based on new information, changes in laws or regulations, changes in management s plans or intentions and the
outcome of legal proceedings, settlements or other factors.  See "Lawsuits, Claims, Commitments and Related Matters" for additional
information.  

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
CHANGES   

  Listed below are significant changes in
accounting principles.  

Future Accounting Changes   

    SFAS No. 141(R)    

  In December 2007, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141(R), "Business Combinations."
This statement provides new accounting guidance and disclosure requirements for business combinations and is effective for business
combinations which occur starting with the first fiscal year beginning on or after December 15, 2008.  

SFAS No. 160    

  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements."  This statement provides new accounting guidance and
disclosure and presentation requirements for noncontrolling interests in an entity.  SFAS No. 160 is effective for the first fiscal
year beginning on or after December 15, 2008.  Occidental does not expect the effect of this statement on its financial statements
to be material.  

SFAS No. 161    

  In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No.
161, which provides new disclosure requirements for an entity s derivative and hedging activities.  SFAS No. 161 is effective
for periods beginning after November 15, 2008. Occidental does not expect the effect of this statement on its financial statements
to be material.  

FSP EITF Issue No.
03-6-1    

  In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position (FSP) Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03-6-1.  This FSP concluded that instruments granted in share-based
payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, should be included in the earnings allocations in
computing basic earnings per share under the two-class method.  This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2008 with prior period retrospective application. Occidental does not expect the effect of this
FSP on its financial statements to be material.  

FSP SFAS No.
132(R)-1    

  In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP
SFAS No. 132(R)-1.  This FSP requires companies to enhance disclosures related to the assets held in defined benefit plans and other
post-retirement benefits.  Occidental will be required to provide greater detail as to the categories of plan assets as well as the
level within the fair value hierarchy discussed in SFAS No. 157, in which the plan assets fall.  This FSP is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.  Occidental does not expect the effect of this FSP on its
financial statements to be material.  

Recently Adopted Accounting
Changes   

    SFAS No. 159    

  In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 159, which allows companies to measure individually selected financial instruments at fair value.  SFAS No. 159 is effective for
financial statements issued for periods beginning after November 15, 2007.  Since Occidental did not elect the fair value option on
any qualifying financial instruments at any time during 2008, this statement has had no impact on Occidental s financial
statements.  

31  

SFAS No. 157    

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 157, which establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157
is effective for financial statements issued for periods beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP
FAS 157-2, which defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities that are not recorded at fair
value on a recurring basis until periods beginning after November 15, 2008.  Occidental adopted the non-deferred portion of SFAS No.
157 on January 1, 2008 on a prospective basis.  See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  In
October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3, which became effective immediately and clarified the application of SFAS No. 157 in a
market that is not active.  The adoption of FSP FAS 157-3 has not had a material impact on Occidental s financial
statements.  

DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES AND MARKET
RISK   

   General   

  Occidental is exposed to risk that
is inherent with changing commodity price risk.  In order to mitigate price risk, Occidental, from time to time, enters into
derivative transactions.  A derivative is an instrument that, among other characteristics, derives its value from changes in another
instrument or variable.  

  In general, the fair value recorded for
derivative instruments is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and the Black Scholes or similar valuation models, as
applicable.  

Commodity Price Risk   

    General    

  Occidental s results are sensitive
to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices.  Based on current levels of production, if oil prices vary by $1 per barrel, it would
have an estimated annual effect on pre-tax income of approximately $150 million.  If domestic natural gas prices vary by $0.50 per
Mcf, it would have an estimated annual effect on pre-tax income of approximately $93 million.  If production levels change in the
future, the sensitivity of Occidental s results to oil and gas prices also would change.  

  Occidental s results are also
sensitive to fluctuations in chemical prices.  If chlorine and caustic soda prices vary by $10 per ton, it would have a pre-tax
annual effect on income of approximately $10 million and $30 million, respectively.  If PVC prices vary by $.01 per lb, it would
have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $30 million.  If ethylene dichloride (EDC) prices vary by $10 per ton, it
would have a pre-tax annual effect on income of approximately $5 million.  Historically, product price changes either precede or
follow raw material and feedstock product price changes; therefore, the margin effect of price changes are generally mitigated over
time.  According to Chemical Market Associates, Inc., December 2008 average contract prices were: chlorine $220 per ton,
caustic soda $1,080 per ton, PVC $0.44 per lb and EDC $40 per ton.  

Marketing and Trading
Operations    

  Occidental periodically uses different
types of derivative instruments to achieve the best prices for oil and gas.  Derivatives have been used by Occidental to reduce its
exposure to price volatility on a small portion of its production.  Occidental enters into low-risk marketing and trading activities
through its separate marketing organization, which operates under established policy controls and procedures.  Occidental's
marketing and trading operations utilize a combination of futures, forwards, options and swaps to mitigate the price risk associated
with various physical transactions.  

Risk Management    

  Occidental conducts its risk management
activities for energy commodities (which include buying, selling, marketing, trading, and hedging activities) under the controls and
governance of its risk control policy.  The President and Chief Financial Officer and the Risk Management Committee, comprising
members of Occidental's management, oversee these controls, which are implemented and enforced by a Trading Control Officer.  The
Trading Control Officer provides an independent and separate check on marketing and trading activities.  Controls for energy
commodities include limits on value at risk, limits on credit, limits on trading, segregation of duties, delegation of authority and
a number of other policy and procedural controls.  

Fair Value of Marketing and Trading
Derivative Contracts    

  The following tables show the changes in
the net fair value of Occidental s marketing and trading derivative contracts, a portion of which are hedges, during 2008 and
2007, and segregate the open contracts at December 31, 2008 by maturity periods.  

In millions   

2008    

2007   

Fair value of
      contracts outstanding at
       beginning of year   unrealized losses   

$    
     
         (576    
     
         )    
     
        $   
     
        (355   
     
        )    

Losses on
      contracts realized or otherwise settled during the year   

101    

106   

Changes in fair
      value attributable to changes in valuation techniques and assumptions   

(1    
     
         )    

Gains (Losses)
      or other changes in fair value (a)    

337    

(327   
     
        )    

Fair value of
      contracts outstanding at end of year
         unrealized losses   

$    
     
         (139    
     
         )    
     
        $   
     
        (576   
     
        )     

(a)   
     
        Primarily relates to price changes on existing
      production hedges.   

During the next twelve months, Occidental
expects that approximately $48 million of net derivative after-tax gains included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, based
on their valuation as of December 31, 2008, will be recognized in earnings.  Hedge ineffectiveness did not have a material impact on
earnings for any of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

32  

Production Hedges    

  Occidental holds a series of collar
agreements that qualify as cash-flow hedges for the sale of a small portion of its crude oil production.  These agreements continue
to the end of 2011.  The 2008 volume that was hedged was less than 3 percent of Occidental s 2008 crude oil production. Further
detail about these cash-flow hedges, which are included in the total fair value of ($139) million in the table above, is presented
below as of December 31, 2008 (volumes in thousands of barrels):  

($ millions)   

Crude Oil   Collars   

Fair value liability   

($253)   

Quantitative
Information    

  Occidental uses value at risk to estimate
the potential effects of changes in fair values of commodity-based derivatives and commodity contracts used in marketing and trading
activities.  This method determines the maximum potential negative short-term change in fair value with a 95-percent level of
confidence.  The marketing and trading value at risk was immaterial during all of 2008.  

Interest Rate Risk   

General    

  Occidental's exposure to changes in
interest rates relates primarily to its long-term debt obligations, and is not expected to be material.  

Tabular Presentation of Interest Rate
Risk    

  In millions of U.S. dollars, except rates  

The table below provides information
about Occidental's debt obligations.  Debt amounts represent principal payments by maturity date.  

(a)   
     
        Excludes unamortized net discounts of $9
      million.   

Credit Risk   

  Occidental s energy contracts are
spread among several counterparties. Creditworthiness is reviewed before doing business with a new counterparty and on an ongoing
basis.  Occidental monitors aggregated counterparty exposure relative to credit limits.  Credit exposure for each customer is
monitored for outstanding balances, current month activity, and forward mark-to-market exposure.  Losses associated with credit risk
have been immaterial for all years presented.  

Foreign Currency Risk   

  Occidental s foreign operations have
currency risk.  Occidental manages its exposure primarily by balancing monetary assets and liabilities and maintaining cash
positions in foreign currencies only at levels necessary for operating purposes.  Most international crude oil sales are denominated
in U.S. dollars.  Additionally, all of Occidental s consolidated foreign oil and gas subsidiaries have the U.S. dollar as the
functional currency.  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Occidental had not entered into any foreign currency derivative instruments.
The effect of exchange rates on transactions in foreign currencies is included in periodic income.  

SAFE HARBOR DISCUSSION REGARDING OUTLOOK
AND OTHER FORWARD-LOOKING DATA   

  Portions of this report, including Items
1 and 2 and the information appearing under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations," including the information under the sub captions "Strategy," "Oil and Gas Segment   Industry Outlook," "Chemical
Segment   Industry Outlook," and Midstream, Marketing and Other Segment   Industry Outlook" contain forward-looking
statements and involve risks and uncertainties that could materially affect expected results of operations, liquidity, cash flows
and business prospects.  Words such as "estimate," "project," "predict," "will," "would," "could," "may," "might," "anticipate,"
"plan," "intend," "believe," "expect" or similar expressions that convey the uncertainty of future events or outcomes generally
identify forward-looking statements.  You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as
of the date of this report.  Unless legally required, Occidental does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking
statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  Material risks that may affect Occidental s results of
operations and financial position appear in Part I, Item 1A "Risk Factors," and elsewhere.  

33  

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY
DATA   

MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF AND
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING   

The management of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation and subsidiaries (Occidental) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting.  Occidental s system of internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  Occidental s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of Occidental s assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that Occidental s receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Occidental s
management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use or disposition of Occidental s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Management has assessed the effectiveness
of Occidental s internal control system as of December 31, 2008 based on the criteria for effective internal control over
financial reporting described in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Based on this assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2008,
Occidental s system of internal control over financial reporting is effective.  

Occidental s independent auditors,
KPMG LLP, have issued an audit report on Occidental s internal control over financial reporting.  

34  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders  

  Occidental Petroleum Corporation:  

We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Occidental Petroleum Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders  equity, comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2008. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have
audited the accompanying financial statement schedule.  These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are
the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also
includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Also
in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.  

As explained in Note 3 to the
consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2008, the Company changed its method of measuring fair value for financial
assets and liabilities; as explained in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2007, the Company
changed its method of accounting for uncertain tax positions; and, as explained in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements,
effective December 31, 2006, the Company changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement
plans.  

We also have audited, in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Occidental Petroleum Corporation and subsidiaries'
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 24,
2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting.  

/s/ KPMG LLP  

Los Angeles, California  

  February 24, 2009  

35  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING   

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders  

  Occidental Petroleum Corporation:  

We have audited Occidental Petroleum
Corporation and subsidiaries' internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Assessment
of and Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.  

We conducted our audit in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  

A company's internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

In our opinion, Occidental Petroleum
Corporation and its subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  

We also have audited, in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Occidental
Petroleum Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders  equity, comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2008, and our report dated February 24, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.  

/s/ KPMG LLP  

Los Angeles, California  

  February 24, 2009  

36  

Consolidated Statements of
      Income   
        In millions, except per-share amounts   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.  

37  

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets   
        In millions   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.  

38  

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets   
        In millions, except share and per-share
      amounts   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.  

39  

Consolidated Statements of
      Stockholders  Equity   
        In millions   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

(a)   
     
        Amounts reflect stock issued for the Vintage
      acquisition.   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income   

  In millions  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.  

40  

Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows   
        In millions   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.  

41  

Notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements    
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries     

NOTE
1    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   

NATURE OF OPERATIONS   

  In this report, "Occidental" or "the
Company" refers to Occidental Petroleum Corporation, a Delaware corporation, (OPC), and/or one or more entities in which it owns a
majority voting interest (subsidiaries).  Occidental is a multinational organization whose subsidiaries and affiliates operate in
the oil and gas, chemical and midstream, marketing and other segments.  The oil and gas segment explores for, develops, produces and
markets crude oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs), condensate and natural gas.  The chemical segment (OxyChem) manufactures and markets
basic chemicals, vinyls and performance chemicals.   The midstream, marketing and other segment (midstream and marketing) gathers,
treats, processes, transports, stores, trades and markets crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, condensate and carbon dioxide
(CO 2 ) and generates and markets power.  Unless otherwise indicated hereafter, discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers
to crude oil, NGLs and condensate.  In addition, discussions of oil and gas production or volumes, in general, refer to sales
volumes unless context requires or it is indicated otherwise.  

PRINCIPLES OF
CONSOLIDATION   

  The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of OPC, its subsidiaries and its undivided interests in oil and gas exploration and production ventures.
Occidental's proportionate share of oil and gas exploration and production ventures, in which it has a direct working interest, is
accounted for by reporting its proportionate share of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flows within the relevant lines
on the balance sheets, income statements and cash flow statements.  

  Certain financial statements, notes and
supplementary data for prior years have been reclassified to conform to the 2008 presentation.  

INVESTMENTS IN UNCONSOLIDATED
ENTITIES   

  Investments in unconsolidated entities
include both equity-method and available-for-sale investments.  Amounts representing Occidental s percentage interest in the
underlying net assets of affiliates (excluding undivided interests in oil and gas exploration and production ventures) in which it
does not have a majority voting interest but as to which it exercises significant influence, are accounted for under the equity
method.  Occidental reviews equity-method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an
other-than-temporary decline in value may have occurred.  The amount of impairment, if any, is based on quoted market prices, where
available, or other valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows.  

  Investments in which Occidental does not
exercise significant influence are accounted for as available-for-sale investments and are carried at fair value, based on quoted
market prices, with unrealized gains and losses reported in other comprehensive income (OCI), net of taxes, until such investment is
realized.  Upon disposal, the accumulated unrealized gain or loss included in OCI is transferred to income.  

REVENUE RECOGNITION   

  Revenue is recognized from oil and gas
production when title has passed to the customer, which occurs when the product is shipped.  In international locations where oil is
shipped by tanker, sale is recognized when the tanker is loaded.  This process occasionally causes a difference between actual
production in a reporting period and sales volumes that have been recognized as revenue.  Revenue from marketing and trading
activities is recognized on net settled transactions upon completion of contract terms, and for physical deliveries upon title
transfer.  For unsettled transactions, contracts that meet specified accounting criteria are recorded at fair value.  Revenue from
all marketing and trading activities is reported on a net basis.  

  Revenue from chemical product sales is
recognized when the product is shipped and title has passed to the customer.  Prices are fixed at the time of shipment.  Certain
incentive programs may provide for payments or credits to be made to customers based on the volume of product purchased over a
defined period.  Total customer incentive payments over a given period are estimated and recorded as a reduction to revenue ratably
over the contract period.  Such estimates are evaluated and revised as warranted.  

  Occidental records revenue net of taxes
that are assessed by governmental authorities on Occidental's customers.  

42  

RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES   

  The process of preparing consolidated
financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the use of estimates
and assumptions regarding certain types of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.  Such estimates primarily relate to unsettled
transactions and events as of the date of the consolidated financial statements.  Accordingly, upon settlement, actual results may
differ from estimated amounts, but generally not by material amounts.  Management believes that these estimates and assumptions
provide a reasonable basis for the fair presentation of Occidental s financial position and results of operations.  

  Realization of deferred tax assets is
dependent upon Occidental generating sufficient future taxable income.  Occidental expects to realize the recorded deferred tax
assets, net of allowances, through future operating income and reversal of temporary differences.  

  The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include assets of approximately $11.2 billion as of December 31, 2008, and net sales of approximately $8.8 billion for
the year ended December 31, 2008, relating to Occidental s operations in countries outside North America.  Occidental operates
some of its oil and gas business in countries that occasionally have experienced political instability, armed conflict, terrorism,
insurgency, civil unrest, security problems, labor unrest, OPEC production restrictions, equipment import restrictions and sanctions
that prevent continued operations, all of which increase Occidental's risk of loss or delayed or restricted production or may result
in other adverse consequences.  Occidental attempts to conduct its financial affairs so as to mitigate its exposure against such
risks and would seek compensation in the event of nationalization.  

  Since Occidental s major products
are commodities, significant changes in the prices of oil and gas and chemical products may have a significant impact on
Occidental s results of operations for any particular year.  

  Also, see "Property, Plant and Equipment"
below.  

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS   

  Cash equivalents are short-term, highly
liquid investments that are readily convertible to cash.  Cash equivalents totaled approximately $1.8 billion and $2.0 billion at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS   

  Short-term investments are recorded at
fair value with any unrealized gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income/loss (AOCI).  Occidental sold all
of its short-term investments in 2007.  

INVENTORIES   

  For the oil and gas segment, materials
and supplies are valued at the lower of average cost or market and are reviewed periodically for obsolescence.  Oil inventories and
natural gas trading and storage inventory are valued at the lower of cost or market.  

  For the chemical segment, Occidental
values most of its domestic inventories, other than materials and supplies, using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method as it better
matches current costs and current revenue.  For other countries, Occidental uses the first-in, first-out method (if the costs of
goods are specifically identifiable) or the average-cost method (if the costs of goods are not specifically identifiable).
Occidental accounts for materials and supplies using a weighted-average cost method.  

PROPERTY, PLANT AND
EQUIPMENT   

   Oil and Gas   

  The carrying value of Occidental s
property, plant and equipment (PP E) is based on the cost incurred to acquire the PP E, including any capitalized interest,
net of accumulated depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD A) and net of any impairment charges.  For acquisitions of a
business, PP E cost is determined by an allocation of total purchase price to the components of PP E based on their
estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.  Interest costs incurred in connection with major capital expenditures are
capitalized and amortized over the lives of the related assets (see Note 17).  

  Occidental uses the successful efforts
method to account for its oil and gas properties.  Under this method, costs of acquiring properties, costs of drilling successful
exploration wells and development costs are capitalized.  The costs of exploratory wells are initially capitalized pending a
determination of whether proved reserves have been found.  At the completion of drilling activities, the costs of exploratory wells
remain capitalized if a determination is made that proved reserves have been found.  If no proved reserves have been found, the
costs of the related exploratory wells are charged to expense.  In some cases, a determination of proved reserves cannot be made at
the completion of drilling, requiring additional testing and evaluation of the wells.  Occidental's practice is to expense the costs
of such exploratory wells if a determination of proved reserves has not been made within a twelve-month period after drilling is
complete.  Occidental has no proved oil and gas reserves for which the determination of commercial viability is subject to the
completion of major additional capital expenditures.  Annual lease rentals and geological, geophysical and seismic costs are
expensed as incurred.  

43  

The following table summarizes the
activity of capitalized exploratory well costs for the years ended December 31:  

Proved oil and gas reserves are the
estimated quantities of oil and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, can be
recovered in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions considering future production and
development costs.  Depreciation and depletion of oil and gas producing properties is determined by the unit-of-production
method.  

  A portion of the carrying value of
Occidental s oil and gas properties is attributable to unproved properties.  At December 31, 2008, the net capitalized costs
attributable to unproved properties were $2.3 billion.  The unproved amounts are not subject to DD A or impairment until a
determination is made as to the existence of proved reserves.  As exploration and development work progresses, if reserves on these
properties are proved, capitalized costs attributable to the properties will be subject to depreciation and depletion.  If the
exploration and development work were to be unsuccessful, or management's plans changed with respect to these properties, as a
result of economic, operating or contractual conditions, the capitalized costs of the related properties would be expensed in the
period in which the determination was made.  The timing of any writedowns of these unproved properties, if warranted, depends upon
management's plans and the nature, timing and extent of future exploration and development activities and their results.  Occidental
believes its current plans and exploration and development efforts will allow it to realize its unproved property
balance.  

  Additionally, Occidental performs
impairment tests with respect to its proved properties generally when prices decline other than temporarily, reserve estimates
change significantly or other significant events occur that may impact the ability to realize the recorded asset amounts. Impairment
tests incorporate a number of assumptions involving expectations of future cash flows, which can change significantly over time.
These assumptions include estimates of future product prices, which Occidental bases on forward price curves, estimates of oil and
gas reserves and estimates of future expected operations and development costs.  Current pricing, coupled with a sustained high
production cost environment, could cause management's plans to change, with respect to unproved properties, and could cause the
carrying values of proved properties to be unrealizable.  

Chemical   

  The most critical accounting policy
affecting Occidental's chemical assets is the determination of the estimated useful lives of its PP E.  Occidental s
chemical plants are depreciated using either the unit-of-production or straight-line method, based upon the estimated useful lives
of the facilities.  The estimated useful lives of Occidental s chemical assets, which range from three years to 50 years, are
used to compute depreciation expense and are also used for impairment tests.  The estimated useful lives used for the chemical
facilities are based on the assumption that Occidental will provide an appropriate level of annual expenditures to ensure productive
capacity is sustained.  Without these continued expenditures, the useful lives of these plants could decrease significantly.  Other
factors that could change the estimated useful lives of Occidental s chemical plants include sustained higher or lower product
prices, which are particularly affected by both domestic and foreign competition, demand, feedstock costs, energy prices,
environmental regulations and technological changes.  

  Occidental performs impairment tests on
its assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction in the estimated useful lives or estimated future cash
flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or when management s plans change with respect to
those assets.  

Midstream and Marketing   

  Occidental s midstream and marketing
assets are depreciated using either the unit-of-production or straight-line method, based upon the estimated useful lives of the
assets.  

  Occidental performs impairment tests on
its assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction in the estimated useful lives or estimated future cash
flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or when management s plans change with respect to
those assets.  

ACCRUED LIABILITIES  
CURRENT   

  Accrued liabilities include accrued
payroll, commissions and related expenses of $352 million and $288 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

44  

ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES AND
EXPENDITURES   

  Environmental expenditures that relate to
current operations are expensed or capitalized as appropriate.  Occidental records environmental reserves for estimated remediation
costs that relate to existing conditions from past operations when environmental remediation efforts are probable and the costs can
be reasonably estimated.  In determining the reserves and the range of reasonably possible additional loss, Occidental refers to
currently available information, including relevant past experience, remedial objectives, available technologies, applicable laws
and regulations and cost-sharing arrangements.  Occidental bases environmental reserves on management s estimate of the most
likely cost to be incurred, using the most cost-effective technology reasonably expected to achieve the remedial objective.
Occidental periodically reviews reserves and adjusts them as new information becomes available.  Occidental records environmental
reserves on a discounted basis only when the aggregate amount and the timing of cash payments are reliably determinable at the time
the reserves are established.  The reserve methodology with respect to discounting for a specific site is not modified once it has
been established.  Occidental generally records reimbursements or recoveries of environmental remediation costs in income when
received.  As of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Occidental has not accrued any reimbursements or recoveries.  

  Many factors could affect
Occidental s future remediation costs and result in adjustments to its environmental reserves and range of reasonably possible
additional loss.  The most significant are:  (1) cost estimates for remedial activities may be inaccurate; (2) the length of time,
type or amount of remediation necessary to achieve the remedial objective may change due to factors such as site conditions, the
ability to identify and control contaminant sources or the discovery of additional contamination; (3) the regulatory agency may
ultimately reject or modify Occidental s proposed remedial plan; (4) improved or alternative remediation technologies may
change remediation costs; and (5) laws and regulations may impose more or less stringent remediation requirements or affect cost
sharing or allocation of liability.  

  At sites involving multiple parties,
Occidental provides environmental reserves based upon its expected share of liability.  Occidental evaluates the financial viability
of other parties with whom it is alleged to be jointly liable, the degree of their commitment to participate and the consequences to
Occidental of their failure to participate when estimating Occidental's ultimate share of liability.  Based on these factors,
Occidental believes that it will not be required to assume a share of liability of such other potentially responsible parties in an
amount that would have a material effect on Occidental s consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
operations.  

  Most cost-sharing arrangements with other
parties fall into one of the following three categories:  (1) environmental proceedings that result in a negotiated or prescribed
allocation of remediation costs among Occidental and other alleged potentially responsible parties; (2) oil and gas ventures in
which each participant pays its proportionate share of remediation costs reflecting its working interest; or (3) contractual
arrangements, typically relating to purchases and sales of properties, in which the parties to the transaction agree to methods of
allocating remediation costs.  

  In all three of these categories,
Occidental records reserves at its expected net cost of remedial activities.  

  In addition to the costs of
investigations and cleanup measures, which often take in excess of ten years at Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
and Liability Act (CERCLA) National Priorities List (CERCLA NPL) sites, Occidental s reserves include management s
estimates of the costs to operate and maintain remedial systems.  If remedial systems are modified over time in response to
significant changes in site-specific data, laws, regulations, technologies or engineering estimates, Occidental reviews and adjusts
its reserves accordingly.  

ASSET RETIREMENT
OBLIGATIONS   

  In the period in which an asset
retirement obligation is incurred and becomes reasonably estimable, Occidental recognizes the fair value of the liability if there
is a legal obligation to dismantle the asset and reclaim or remediate the property at the end of its useful life.  The liability
amounts are based on future retirement cost estimates and incorporate many assumptions such as time to abandonment, technological
changes, future inflation rates and the adjusted risk-free rate of interest.  When the liability is initially recorded, Occidental
capitalizes the cost by increasing the related PP E balances.  Over time, the liability is increased and expense is recognized
for changes in its present value, and the initial capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of the asset.  No market risk
premium has been included in Occidental s liability since no reliable estimate can be made at this time.  

  Occidental has identified conditional
asset retirement obligations at a certain number of its facilities that are related mainly to plant decommissioning.  Occidental
believes that there is an indeterminate settlement date for these asset retirement obligations because the range of time over which
Occidental may settle these obligations is unknown or cannot be estimated.  Therefore, Occidental cannot reasonably estimate the
fair value of these liabilities.  Occidental will recognize these conditional asset retirement obligations in the periods in which
sufficient information becomes available to reasonably estimate their fair values.  

45  

The following table summarizes the
activity of the asset retirement obligation, of which $480 million and $445 million is included in deferred credits and other
liabilities - other, with the remaining current portion in accrued liabilities at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS   

  Derivative instruments are carried at
fair value.  Occidental applies either fair value or cash flow hedge accounting when transactions meet specified criteria for hedge
accounting treatment.  If a derivative does not qualify as a hedge or is not designated as a hedge, any fair value gains or losses
are recognized in earnings.  If the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting and is designated and documented as a hedge, the gain
or loss on the derivative is either recognized in income with an offsetting adjustment to the basis of the item being hedged for
fair value hedges, or deferred in OCI to the extent the hedge is effective for cash flow hedges.  Cash flow hedge-realized gains and
losses, and any ineffectiveness, are classified within the net sales line item.  Gains and losses are reported net in the income
statement and are also netted on the balance sheets when a right of offset exists.  

  A hedge is regarded as highly effective
and qualifies for hedge accounting if, at inception and throughout its life, it is expected that changes in the fair value or cash
flows of the hedged item are almost fully offset by the changes in the fair value or changes in cash flows of the hedging instrument
and actual effectiveness is within a range of 80 to 125 percent.  In the case of hedging a forecasted transaction, the transaction
must be probable and must present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect reported net income or loss.
Occidental discontinues hedge accounting when it determines that a derivative has ceased to be highly effective as a hedge; when the
derivative expires, or is sold, terminated, or exercised; when the hedged item matures or is sold or repaid; or when a forecasted
transaction is no longer deemed probable.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FAIR
VALUE   

  The carrying amounts of cash and cash
equivalents approximate fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.  The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet
financial instruments, other than fixed-rate debt, approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to terminate off-balance-sheet
financial instruments is not significant.  

STOCK-BASED INCENTIVE
PLANS   

  Occidental has established several
shareholder-approved stock-based incentive plans for certain employees (Plans) that are more fully described in Note 12.  A summary
of Occidental s accounting policy under each Plan follows below.  

  For restricted stock units (RSUs),
performance restricted share units (PRSUs) and cash-settled share units (CSSUs), compensation expense is measured on the grant date
using the quoted market price of Occidental s common stock.  For stock options (Options), stock-settled stock appreciation
rights (SARs), performance stock awards (PSAs) and total shareholder return incentives (TSRIs), compensation expense is measured on
the grant date using valuation models.  Compensation expense for RSUs, PRSUs, Options, stock-settled SARs, CSSUs, PSAs and TSRIs is
recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods, which is generally over the awards  respective vesting
or performance periods.  In addition, for PSAs and TSRIs, every quarter until vesting, the cash-settled portion is revalued using
valuation models and the stock-settled portion is adjusted for any change in the number of shares expected to be issued based on the
performance criteria.  For PRSUs, compensation expense is adjusted quarterly for any change in the number of shares expected to be
issued based on the performance criteria.  For CSSUs, changes in fair value of the market price of Occidental common stock after the
grant date until the date of vesting are recognized in periodic compensation expense.  For cash-settled SARs issued prior to the
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), compensation expense is initially measured on the grant
date using a valuation model and is then recorded on the accelerated amortization method over the vesting period.  Changes in the
fair value between the date of grant and the date when the cash-settled SARs are exercised are recognized as compensation expense.
Occidental recognizes compensation expense for all graded vesting awards issued subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on the
straight-line method.  

46  

SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW
INFORMATION   

  Taxes paid were as follows:  

Interest paid totaled approximately $84
million, $307 million and $266 million for the years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  See Note 2 for detail of noncash investing
and financing activities regarding certain acquisitions.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY
TRANSACTIONS   

  The functional currency applicable to all
of Occidental s foreign oil and gas operations is the U.S. dollar since cash flows are denominated principally in U.S. dollars.
Occidental s chemical operations in Brazil use the Real as the functional currency.  Exchange-rate changes on transactions
denominated in non-U.S. dollar functional currencies generated a gain of $91 million in 2008 and losses of $18 million and zero in
2007 and 2006, respectively.  

NOTE
2    BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ASSET ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS   

2008   

  In February 2008, Occidental purchased
from Plains Exploration   Production Company (Plains) a 50-percent interest in oil and gas properties in the Permian Basin and
western Colorado for approximately $1.5 billion in cash.  In December 2008, Occidental purchased the remainder of Plains 
interests in the same assets for $1.2 billion in cash.  

  In June 2008, Occidental signed an
agreement for a third party to construct a west Texas gas processing plant and pipeline infrastructure that will provide carbon
dioxide (CO 2 ) for Occidental s enhanced oil recovery projects in the Permian Basin.  Occidental will own and operate
the new facility and pipeline system.  

  In June 2008, Occidental and its partner
signed 30-year agreements (including a potential 5-year extension) with the Libyan National Oil Company (NOC) to upgrade its
existing petroleum contracts in Libya.  The new agreements increased Occidental's after-tax economic returns while allowing NOC and
Occidental to design and implement major field redevelopment and exploration programs in the Sirte Basin.  Occidental will
contribute 37.5 percent of the development capital.  Under these contracts, Occidental will pay $750 million as its share of a
signature bonus.  Occidental made its first payment in the amount of $450 million in June 2008.  Occidental's remaining annual
payments of $150 million each, are due in each of the next two years.  

  In July 2008, Occidental purchased a
15-percent interest in the Joslyn Oil Sands Project (Joslyn) in northern Alberta, Canada, for approximately $500 million in
cash.  

  In August 2008, Occidental purchased a
minority interest in a North American oil and gas pipeline entity for approximately $330 million in cash.  

  In October 2008, Occidental announced the
signing of the preliminary agreement with Abu Dhabi National Oil Company to appraise and develop the Jarn Yaphour and Ramhan oil and
gas fields in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.  Occidental will operate both fields and hold a 100-percent interest in the newly created
concessions.  

2007   

  In January 2007, Occidental sold its
50-percent joint venture interest in Russia for an after-tax gain of approximately $412 million.  

  In June 2007, Occidental completed a fair
value exchange under which BP p.l.c. (BP) acquired Occidental's oil and gas interests in Horn Mountain and received cash. Occidental
acquired oil and gas interests in the Permian Basin and a gas processing plant in Texas from BP.  Occidental also purchased for cash
BP's west Texas pipeline system and, in a separate transaction, Occidental sold its oil and gas interests in Pakistan to BP.  As a
result of these transactions, both the Horn Mountain and Pakistan operations were classified as discontinued operations for all
periods presented.  Net revenues and pre-tax income for discontinued operations related to Pakistan and Horn Mountain were $193
million and $469 million (including after-tax disposal gains of $230 million) in 2007 and $486 million and $359 million in 2006. The
assets and liabilities of Horn Mountain and Pakistan are classified as assets of discontinued operations and liabilities of
discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet.  At December 31, 2006, asset and liabilities of discontinued operations
related to Horn Mountain and Pakistan were $162 million and $14 million, respectively, which were mainly comprised of PP E and
asset retirement obligations.  

  In September 2007, Occidental sold
exploration properties in West Africa and recorded a pre-tax gain of $103 million.  

47  

2006   

  In January 2006, Occidental completed the
merger of Vintage Production, Inc. (Vintage) into a wholly owned Occidental subsidiary.  As a result, Occidental acquired assets in
Argentina, California, Yemen, Bolivia and the Permian Basin in Texas.  Occidental paid approximately $1.3 billion in cash to former
Vintage shareholders, issued approximately 56 million shares of Occidental common stock, which were valued at $2.1 billion, and
assumed Vintage s debt, which had an estimated fair market value of $585 million at closing.  

  The acquisition was accounted for in
accordance with SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations." The results of Vintage s operations have been included in the
consolidated financial statements since January 30, 2006.  The assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at their
estimated fair values at the acquisition date.  The estimated fair value of PP E consisted of $3.4 billion of proved properties
and $1.3 billion of unproved properties.  No goodwill was recorded on this transaction.  

  Certain Vintage assets and their related
liabilities were classified as held for sale as part of the allocation of the purchase price, and were subsequently sold in 2006 for
$1.0 billion with no gain or loss recorded.  The results of operations for the assets that were held for sale and sold are not
included in the revenue, cost or production amounts and were treated as discontinued operations.  Net revenues and pre-tax income
for discontinued operations related to these Vintage assets for the year ended December 31, 2006, were $869 million and $237
million, respectively.  

  In May 2006, Ecuador terminated
Occidental's contract for the operation of Block 15, which comprised all of its oil producing operations in the country, and seized
Occidental's Block 15 assets.  As a result of the seizure, Occidental classified its Block 15 operations as discontinued operations.
In 2006, Occidental recorded a net after-tax charge of $296 million in discontinued operations.  This amount consists of after-tax
charges for the write-off of the investment in Block 15 in Ecuador, as well as ship-or-pay obligations entered into with respect to
the Oleoducto de Crudos Pesados Ltd. (OCP) pipeline in Ecuador to ship oil produced in Block 15, partially offset by $109 million of
after-tax income from operations for the first five months of 2006.  

  Occidental s Block 15 assets and
liabilities are classified as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet on a retrospective
application basis.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, liabilities of discontinued operations related to Ecuador were $263 million and
$292 million, respectively, which mainly consisted of the ship-or-pay obligations to the OCP pipeline.  Net revenues and pre-tax
income (loss) for discontinued operations related to Ecuador for the year ended December 31, 2006 were $275 million and $(529)
million, including a pre-tax write-off of $(673) million.  

  In September 2006, Occidental acquired
oil and gas assets located in the Permian Basin in West Texas and California from Plains for approximately $859 million in
cash.  

NOTE
3    ACCOUNTING CHANGES   

FUTURE ACCOUNTING CHANGES   

   SFAS No. 141(R)   

  In December 2007, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 141(R), "Business Combinations."  This statement provides new accounting guidance
and disclosure requirements for business combinations, and is effective for business combinations which occur starting with the
first fiscal year beginning on or after December 15, 2008.  

SFAS No. 160   

  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 160, "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements."  This statement provides new accounting guidance and
disclosure and presentation requirements for noncontrolling interests in an entity.  SFAS No. 160 is effective for the first fiscal
year beginning on or after December 15, 2008.  Occidental does not expect the effect of this statement on its financial statements
to be material.  

SFAS NO. 161   

  In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No.
161, which provides new disclosure requirements for an entity s derivative and hedging activities.  SFAS No. 161 is effective
for periods beginning after November 15, 2008.  Occidental does not expect the effect of this statement on its financial statements
to be material.  

FSP EITF Issue No. 03-6-1   

  In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff
Position (FSP) Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 03-6-1.  This FSP concluded that instruments granted in share-based
payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and, therefore, should be included in the earnings allocations in
computing basic earnings per share (EPS) under the two-class method.  This FSP is effective for financial statements issued for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 with prior period retrospective application.  Occidental does not expect the effect
of this FSP on its financial statements to be material.  

48  

FSP SFAS No.
132(R)-1   

  In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP
SFAS No. 132(R)-1.  This FSP requires companies to enhance disclosures related to the assets held in defined benefit plans and other
post-retirement benefits.  The Company will be required to provide greater detail as to the categories of plan assets as well as the
level within the fair value hierarchy discussed in SFAS No. 157, in which the plan assets fall.  This FSP is effective for financial
statements issued for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009.  Occidental does not expect the effect of this FSP on its
financial statements to be material.  

RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING
CHANGES   

   SFAS No. 159   

  In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 159, which allows companies to measure certain individually selected financial instruments at fair value.  SFAS No. 159 is
effective for financial statements issued for periods beginning after November 15, 2007.  Since Occidental did not elect the fair
value option on any qualifying financial instruments at any time during 2008, this statement has had no impact on Occidental s
financial statements.  

SFAS No. 157   

  In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 157, which establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157
is effective for financial statements issued for periods beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP
FAS 157-2, which defers the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities that are not recorded at fair
value on a recurring basis until periods beginning after November 15, 2008.  Occidental adopted the non-deferred portion of SFAS No.
157 on January 1, 2008 on a prospective basis.  See Note 11 for further information.  In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS
157-3, which became effective immediately and clarified the application of SFAS No. 157 in a market that is not active. The adoption
of FSP FAS 157-3 has not had a material impact on Occidental s financial statements.  

NOTE
4    INVENTORIES   

Net carrying values of inventories valued
under the LIFO method were approximately $166 million and $190 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  Inventories
consisted of the following:  

NOTE
5    LONG-TERM DEBT   

Long-term debt consisted of the
following:  

49  

In October 2008, Occidental issued $1
billion of 7-percent senior notes receiving $985 million of net proceeds. Interest on the notes will be payable semi-annually in
arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year, beginning on May 1, 2009. The notes will mature on November 1, 2013.  

  In September 2006, Occidental amended and
restated its $1.5 billion bank credit (Credit Facility) to, among other things, lower the interest rate and extend the term to
September 2011.  In September 2007, participating lenders extended the maturity date on $1.4 billion of aggregate loan commitments
under the Credit Facility to September 2012.  The Credit Facility provides for the termination of the loan commitments and requires
immediate repayment of any outstanding amounts if certain events of default occur or if Occidental files for bankruptcy.  Occidental
did not draw down any amounts under the Credit Facility during 2008.  Available but unused lines of committed bank credit totaled
approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2008.  

  None of Occidental's committed bank
credits contain material adverse change (MAC) clauses or debt rating triggers that could restrict Occidental's ability to borrow
under these lines.  Occidental's credit facilities and debt agreements do not contain rating triggers that could terminate bank
commitments or accelerate debt in the event of a ratings downgrade.  Up to $350 million of the Credit Facility is available in the
form of letters of credit.  Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at various benchmark rates, including LIBOR, plus a
margin based on Occidental's senior debt ratings.  Additionally, Occidental paid an annual facility fee of 0.05 percent to 0.06
percent in 2008 on the total commitment amount, which was based on Occidental's senior debt ratings.  

  In May 2007, Occidental redeemed all $276
million of the outstanding principal amount of its 8.25-percent Vintage senior notes due 2012.  In January 2007, Occidental
completed cash tender offers for portions of various debt instruments totaling $659 million in principal amount.  The redemption and
repurchases resulted in a pre-tax interest expense of $167 million.  

  In 2006, Occidental recorded $35 million
of pre-tax charges to redeem all of its outstanding 7.375-percent senior notes due 2008 and all of its 7.875-percent Vintage senior
subordinated notes due 2011 and to purchase in the open market and retire various amounts of Occidental and Vintage senior notes and
unsecured subsidiary notes.  

  At December 31, 2008, minimum principal
payments on long-term debt subsequent to December 31, 2008, aggregated $2,749 million, of which $691 million is due in 2009, $239
million in 2010, $68 million in 2011, $368 million in 2012, $1,000 million in 2013, zero in 2014 and $383 million
thereafter.  

  As of December 31, 2008, under the most
restrictive covenants of certain financing agreements, Occidental's capacity for additional unsecured borrowing was approximately
$65.3 billion and the capacity for the payment of cash dividends and other distributions on, and for acquisitions of,
Occidental s capital stock was approximately $25.1 billion, assuming that such dividends, distributions and acquisitions were
made without incurring additional borrowings.  

  Occidental estimates the fair value of
its long-term debt based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the yields offered to Occidental for debt
of similar rating and similar remaining maturities.  The estimated fair values of Occidental s debt, at December 31, 2008 and
2007, were approximately $2.9 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, compared with carrying values of approximately $2.7 billion
and $1.8 billion, respectively.  

NOTE
6    LEASE COMMITMENTS   

The present value of minimum capital
lease payments, net of the current portion, totaled $25 million at both December 31, 2008 and 2007.  These amounts are included in
other liabilities.  

  Operating and capital lease agreements,
which include leases for manufacturing facilities, office space, railcars and tanks, frequently include renewal or purchase options
and require Occidental to pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.  

  At December 31, 2008, future net minimum
lease payments for capital and noncancelable operating leases (excluding oil and gas and other mineral leases, utilities, taxes,
insurance and maintenance expense) were the following:  

50  

Rental expense for operating leases, net
of sublease rental income, was $178 million in 2008, $196 million in 2007 and $199 million in 2006.  Rental expense was net of
sublease income of $7 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

NOTE
7    DERIVATIVE ACTIVITIES   

Occidental is exposed to risk that is
inherent with changing commodity prices.  In order to mitigate price risk, Occidental, from time to time, enters into derivative
transactions.  A derivative is an instrument that, among other characteristics, derives its value from changes in another instrument
or variable.  

  In general, the fair value recorded for
derivative instruments is based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and the Black Scholes or similar valuation models.  

General   

  Occidental s results are sensitive
to fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices.  

Marketing and Trading
Operations   

  Occidental periodically uses different
types of derivative instruments to achieve the best prices for oil and gas.  Derivatives have been used by Occidental to reduce its
exposure to price volatility on a small portion of its production.  Occidental enters into low-risk marketing and trading activities
through its separate marketing organization, which operates under established policy controls and procedures.  Occidental's
marketing and trading operations utilize a combination of futures, forwards, options and swaps to mitigate the price risk associated
with various physical transactions.  

Production Hedges   

  Occidental holds a series of collar
agreements that qualify as cash-flow hedges for the sale of a small portion of its crude oil production.  These agreements continue
to the end of 2011.  The 2008 volume that was hedged was less than 3 percent of Occidental s 2008 crude oil
production.  

Fair Value of Marketing and Trading
Derivative Contracts   

  The following tables show the changes in
the net fair value of Occidental s marketing and trading derivative contracts, a portion of which are hedges, during 2008 and
2007.  

In millions   

2008    

2007   

Fair value of
      contracts outstanding at beginning of year   unrealized losses   

$    
     
         (576    
     
         )    
     
        $   
     
        (355   
     
        )    

Losses on
      contracts realized or otherwise settled during the year   

101    

106   

Changes in fair
      value attributable to changes in valuation techniques and assumptions   

(1    
     
         )    

Gains (losses)
      or other changes in fair values  (a)    

337    

(327   
     
        )    

Fair value of
      contracts outstanding at end of year   unrealized losses   

$    
     
         (139    
     
         )    
     
        $   
     
        (576   
     
        )     

(a)   
     
        Primarily relates to price changes on existing
      production hedges.   

INTEREST RATE RISK   

  Occidental s exposure to changes in
interest rates relates primarily to its long-term debt obligations, and is not expected to be material.  

CREDIT RISK   

  Occidental s energy contracts are
spread among several counterparties. Creditworthiness is reviewed before doing business with a new counterparty and on an ongoing
basis.  Occidental monitors aggregated counterparty exposure relative to credit limits.  Credit exposure for each customer is
monitored for outstanding balances, current month activity, and forward mark-to-market exposure.  Losses associated with credit risk
have been immaterial for all years presented.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK   

  Occidental s foreign operations have
currency risk.  Occidental manages its exposure primarily by balancing monetary assets and liabilities and maintaining cash
positions in foreign currencies only at levels necessary for operating purposes.  Most international crude oil sales are denominated
in U.S. dollars.  Additionally, all of Occidental s consolidated foreign oil and gas subsidiaries have the U.S. dollar as the
functional currency.  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, Occidental had not entered into any foreign currency derivative instruments.
The effect of exchange rates on transactions in foreign currencies is included in periodic income.  

51  

DERIVATIVE AND FAIR VALUE
DISCLOSURES   

The following table summarizes net
after-tax derivative activity recorded in AOCI:  

During the next twelve months, Occidental
expects that approximately $48 million of net derivative after-tax gains included in AOCI, based on their valuation as of December
31, 2008, will be reclassified into earnings.  Hedge ineffectiveness did not have a material impact on earnings for the years ended
December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  See Note 15 for further information regarding derivative financial instruments included in the
consolidated balance sheets.  

NOTE
8    ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES AND EXPENDITURES   

Occidental s operations are subject
to stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to improving or maintaining environmental quality.
Occidental s environmental compliance costs have generally increased over time and could continue to rise in the future.
Occidental factors environmental expenditures for its operations into its business planning process as an integral part of producing
quality products responsive to market demand.  

ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION   

  The laws that require or address
environmental remediation, including CERCLA and similar federal, state, local and foreign laws, may apply retroactively and
regardless of fault, the legality of the original activities or the current ownership or control of sites.  OPC or certain of its
subsidiaries participate in or actively monitor a range of remedial activities and government or private proceedings under these
laws with respect to alleged past practices at operating, closed and third-party sites.  Remedial activities may include one or more
of the following:  investigation involving sampling, modeling, risk assessment or monitoring; cleanup measures involving removal,
treatment or disposal; or operation and maintenance of remedial systems.  The environmental proceedings seek funding or performance
of remediation and, in some cases, compensation for alleged property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties, injunctive relief
and government oversight costs.  

  As of December 31, 2008, Occidental
participated in or monitored remedial activities or proceedings at 166 sites.  The following table presents Occidental s
environmental remediation reserves as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the current portion of which is included in accrued
liabilities ($68 million in 2008, $69 million in 2007 and $79 million in 2006) and the remainder in deferred credits and other
liabilities   other ($371 million in 2008, $388 million in 2007 and $333 million in 2006).  The reserves are grouped in the
following four categories of environmental remediation sites:  (1) sites listed or proposed for listing by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency on the CERCLA NPL; (2) other third-party sites; (3) Occidental-operated sites; and (4) Occidental's closed or
non-operated sites.  

As of December 31, 2008,
Occidental s environmental reserves exceeded $10 million each at 14 of the 166 sites described above, and 115 of the sites had
reserves from $0 to $1 million each.  

  As of December 31, 2008, two landfills in
western New York owned by Occidental accounted for 65 percent of its reserves associated with CERCLA NPL sites.  Maxus Energy
Corporation has retained the liability and indemnified Occidental for 17 of the remaining 38 CERCLA NPL sites.  

  As of December 31, 2008, Maxus has also
retained the liability and indemnified Occidental for 14 of the 76 other third-party sites.  Two of the remaining 62 other
third-party sites   a former copper mining and smelting operation in Tennessee and an active refinery in Louisiana where
Occidental reimburses the current owner and operator for certain remedial activities   accounted for 60 percent of
Occidental s reserves associated with these sites.  

52  

Five sites   chemical plants in
Kansas, Louisiana and New York and two groups of oil and gas properties in the southwestern United States   accounted for 71
percent of Occidental's reserves associated with its operated sites.  Five other sites   former chemical plants in Delaware,
Michigan, Tennessee and Washington and a closed coal mine in Pennsylvania   accounted for 71 percent of Occidental s
reserves associated with its closed or non-operated sites.  

  The following table shows environmental
reserve activity for the past three years:  

Occidental expects to expend funds
corresponding to about half of the current environmental reserves over the next four years and the balance over the subsequent ten
or more years.  Occidental believes its range of reasonably possible additional loss beyond those liabilities recorded for
environmental remediation at the sites described above could be up to $400 million.  For management s opinion with respect to
environmental matters, refer to Note 9.  

ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS   

  Occidental s environmental costs,
some of which may include estimates, are shown below for each segment for the years ended December 31:  

Operating expenses are incurred on a
continual basis.  Capital expenditures relate to longer-lived improvements in currently operating properties.  Remediation expenses
relate to existing conditions from past operations.  

NOTE
9    LAWSUITS, CLAIMS, COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND RELATED MATTERS   

OPC or certain of its subsidiaries are
named, in the normal course of business, in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that seek, among other things, compensation
for alleged personal injury, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive
or declaratory relief.  OPC or certain of its subsidiaries also have been named in proceedings under CERCLA and similar federal,
state, local and foreign environmental laws.  These environmental proceedings seek funding or performance of remediation and, in
some cases, compensation for alleged property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties and injunctive relief; however, Occidental
is usually one of many companies in these proceedings and has to date been successful in sharing response costs with other
financially sound companies.  With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, including environmental proceedings,
Occidental accrues reserves when it is probable a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably
estimated.  

  Lawsuits have been filed in Nicaragua
against OxyChem and other companies that once manufactured or used a pesticide, dibromochloropropane (DBCP).  These lawsuits claim
damages of several billion dollars for alleged personal injuries.  In the opinion of management, the claims against OxyChem are
without merit because, among other things, the DBCP it manufactured was never sold or used in Nicaragua.  In order to preserve its
jurisdictional defense, OxyChem elected not to make a substantive appearance in these cases.  Nicaraguan courts have entered
judgments of approximately $900 million against four defendants, including OxyChem.  Under Nicaraguan law, the judgments would be
shared equally among the defendants.  The plaintiffs attempted to enforce one judgment in Miami.  In January 2009, the federal
district court in Miami granted summary judgment in favor of OxyChem and refused to enforce the judgment.  OxyChem has no assets in
Nicaragua and, in the opinion of management, no such Nicaraguan judgment would be enforceable in the United States.  

53  

During the course of its operations,
Occidental is subject to audit by tax authorities for varying periods in various federal, state, local and foreign tax
jurisdictions.  While the audits for taxable years through 2007 have concluded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the 2008
taxable year is currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service pursuant to its compliance assurance program (CAP).
Foreign government tax authorities are in various stages of auditing Occidental, and income taxes for taxable years from 2000
through 2008 remain subject to examination in certain jurisdictions.  During the course of such audits, disputes have arisen and
other disputes may arise as to facts and matters of law.  

  Occidental has entered into agreements
providing for future payments to secure terminal and pipeline capacity, drilling rigs and services, electrical power, steam and
certain chemical raw materials.  Occidental has certain other commitments under contracts, guarantees and joint ventures, including
purchase commitments for goods and services at market-related prices and certain other contingent liabilities. At December 31, 2008,
commitments for major fixed and determinable capital expenditures during 2009 and thereafter were approximately $1.1
billion.  

  Occidental has indemnified various
parties against specified liabilities that those parties might incur in the future in connection with purchases and other
transactions that they have entered into with Occidental.  These indemnities usually are contingent upon the other party incurring
liabilities that reach specified thresholds.  As of December 31, 2008, Occidental is not aware of circumstances that it believes
would reasonably be expected to lead to future indemnity claims against it in connection with these transactions that would result
in payments materially in excess of reserves.  

  The ultimate amount of losses and the
timing of any such losses that OPC and its subsidiaries may incur resulting from currently outstanding lawsuits, claims and
proceedings, audits, commitments, contingencies and related matters cannot be determined reliably at this time.  If these matters
were ultimately resolved unfavorably at amounts substantially exceeding Occidental s reserves, an outcome not currently
expected, it is possible that such outcome could have a material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial
position or results of operations.  However, after taking into account reserves, management does not expect the ultimate resolution
of any of these matters to have a material adverse effect upon Occidental s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.  

NOTE
10    DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN INCOME TAXES   

The domestic and foreign components of
income from continuing operations before domestic and foreign income taxes were as follows:  

The provisions (credits) for domestic and
foreign income taxes on continuing operations consisted of the following:  

As a result of changes in compensation
programs in 2006, Occidental wrote off approximately $40 million of the related deferred tax asset that had been recognized in the
financial statements prior to the changes.  

54  

The following is a reconciliation, stated
as a percentage of pre-tax income, of the United States statutory federal income tax rate to Occidental s effective tax rate on
income from continuing operations:  

The tax effects of temporary differences
resulting in deferred income taxes at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:  

Included in total deferred tax assets was
a current portion aggregating $200 million and $230 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, that was reported in
prepaid expenses and other.  Total deferred tax assets were $1.4 billion and $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, the noncurrent portion of which is netted against deferred tax liabilities.  

  Occidental has, as of December 31, 2008,
foreign tax credit carryforwards of $423 million, which expire in varying amounts through 2018 and various state operating loss
carryforwards, which have varying carryforward periods through 2025.  Occidental establishes a valuation allowance against net
operating losses and other deferred tax assets to the extent it believes future benefit from these assets will not be realized in
the statutory carryforward periods.  Substantially all of Occidental's valuation allowance is provided for foreign and state tax
credit carryforwards.  

  A deferred tax liability has not been
recognized for temporary differences related to unremitted earnings of certain consolidated foreign subsidiaries aggregating
approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 2008, as it is Occidental s intention, generally, to reinvest such earnings
permanently.  If the earnings of these foreign subsidiaries were not indefinitely reinvested, an additional deferred tax liability
of approximately $60 million would be required, assuming utilization of available foreign tax credits.  

  The discontinued operations include an
income tax charge of $29 million in 2008, a charge of $141 million in 2007 and a benefit of $92 million in 2006.  

  Additional paid-in capital was credited
$77 million in 2008, $43 million in 2007 and $140 million in 2006 for an excess tax benefit from the exercise of certain stock-based
compensation awards.  

  Occidental adopted FASB Interpretation
No. 48 effective January 1, 2007.  As of December 31, 2008, Occidental had liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of
approximately $62 million included in deferred credits and other liabilities   other, all of which, if subsequently recognized,
would have affected Occidental s effective tax rate.  

55  

A reconciliation of the beginning and
ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:  

Occidental continues to recognize an
estimate of potential interest and penalties related to liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits in the provisions for domestic and
foreign income and other taxes and these amounts were not material for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

  Occidental is subject to audit by various
tax authorities in varying periods.  See Note 9 for a discussion of these matters.  

  It is unlikely that Occidental s
liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits related to existing matters would increase or decrease within the next twelve months by a
material amount.  Occidental cannot reasonably estimate a range of potential changes in such benefits due to the unresolved nature
of the various audits.  

NOTE
11    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY   

The following is an analysis of common
stock issuances:  

In May 2006, Occidental amended its
Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock to 1.1 billion.  The par value per
share remained unchanged.  

TREASURY STOCK   

  In February and July 2008, Occidental
increased the number of shares authorized for its share repurchase program from 55 to 75 million and 75 to 95 million, respectively.
Additionally, Occidental purchased shares from the trustee of its defined contribution savings plan during the years ended December
31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

  In 2008, 2007 and 2006, Occidental
purchased 19.8 million, 20.6 million and 30.6 million shares, respectively, under the programs at an average cost of $76.33, $54.75
and $48.20 per share, respectively.  

NONREDEEMABLE PREFERRED
STOCK   

  Occidental has authorized 50,000,000
shares of preferred stock with a par value of $1.00 per share.  At December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Occidental had no outstanding
shares of preferred stock.  

56  

EARNINGS PER SHARE   

  Basic EPS was computed by dividing net
income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during each year, net of treasury shares and including vested but
unissued shares and share units.  The computation of diluted EPS further reflects the dilutive effect of stock options and unvested
stock-settled SARs and RSUs.  

  The following are the share amounts used
to compute the basic and diluted EPS for the years ended December 31:  

ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
LOSS   

  Accumulated other comprehensive loss
consisted of the following after-tax losses:  

(a)   
     
        See Note 13 for further
      information.   

NOTE
12    STOCK-BASED INCENTIVE PLANS   

Occidental has established several Plans
that allow it to issue stock-based awards in the form of Options, RSUs, stock bonuses, SARs, PSAs, PRSUs, TSRIs, CSSUs and dividend
equivalents. These include the 1995 Incentive Stock Plan (1995 ISP), 2001 Incentive Compensation Plan (2001 ICP), Phantom Share Unit
Awards Plan and the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2005 LTIP).  No further awards will be granted under the 1995 ISP and 2001 ICP;
however, certain 1995 ISP and 2001 ICP award grants were outstanding at December 31, 2008.  An aggregate of 66 million shares of
Occidental common stock are reserved for issuance under the 2005 LTIP and at December 31, 2008, approximately 44.1 million shares of
Occidental common stock were available for future awards.  All non-employee director awards are now granted under the 2005 LTIP.
During 2008, non-employee directors were granted awards for 59,800 shares of restricted stock that fully vested on the grant date.
Awards that have been granted to directors under the 2005 LTIP are restricted and may not be sold or transferred for three years,
except in the case of death or disability, during the director s period of service as a member of the Board.  Compensation
expense for these awards was measured using the quoted market price of Occidental's common stock on the grant date and was
recognized at the grant date.  

The table below summarizes certain
stock-based incentive amounts for the past three years:  

(a)   
     
        Includes cash paid under the cash-settled SARs
      and the cash-settled portion of the PSAs and CSSUs.   

(b)   
     
        As measured on the vesting date for RSUs and the
      stock-settled portion of the PSAs.   

As of December 31, 2008, there was $122
million of pre-tax unrecognized compensation expense related to all unvested stock-based incentive award grants.  This expense is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years.  

57  

STOCK OPTIONS AND SARs   

  Certain employees have been granted
Options that are settled in stock and SARs that are settled either only in stock or only in cash.  Exercise prices of the Options
and SARs were equal to the quoted market value of Occidental s stock on the grant date.  Generally, the Options and SARs vest
ratably over three years with a maximum term of ten years.  These Options and SARs may be forfeited or accelerated under certain
circumstances.  

  The fair value of each Option or
stock-settled SAR is measured on the grant date using the Black Scholes option valuation model and expensed on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period.  The expected life is estimated based on the actual weighted-average life of historical exercise activity
of the grantee population at the grant date.  The volatility factors are based on the historical volatilities of Occidental common
stock over the expected lives as estimated on the grant date.  The risk-free interest rate is the implied yield available on zero
coupon T-notes (US Treasury Strip) at the grant date with a remaining term equal to the expected life.  The dividend yield is the
expected annual dividend yield over the expected life, expressed as a percentage of the stock price on the grant date.  Estimates of
fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive stock-based
incentive awards, and subsequent events may not be indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by
Occidental.  

  The grant-date assumptions used in the
Black Scholes valuation for Options and stock-settled SARs were as follows:  

The grant-date fair value of each
stock-settled SAR granted in 2006 was $14.77.  The fair value of the cash-settled SARs is also estimated using the Black Scholes
model and is recalculated using updated assumptions each quarter until they are exercised.  Changes in the fair value from the date
of grant until the date when the cash-settled SARs are exercised are recognized as periodic compensation expense.  No Options or
SARs have been granted since 2006.  

The following is a summary of Option and
SAR transactions during 2008:  

58  

RSUs   

  Certain employees are awarded the right
to receive RSUs that vest ratably over three or five years after the grant date and can be forfeited or accelerated under certain
conditions.  Dividend equivalents are paid during the vesting period.  Compensation expense for RSUs is measured using the quoted
market price of Occidental's common stock on the grant date.  The weighted-average, grant-date fair values of the RSUs granted in
2008, 2007 and 2006 were $74.88, $52.68 and $50.45, respectively.  

  A summary of changes in Occidental s
unvested RSUs during the year ended December 31, 2008 is presented below:  

PERFORMANCE-BASED AWARDS   

   PRSUs   

  Certain executives are awarded PRSUs with
a performance measure based on Occidental s three-year cumulative return on equity with payout amounts varying from 0 to 200
percent of the target award.  The PRSUs vest at the end of the three-year period following the grant date if performance targets are
certified as being met.  Compensation expense is initially measured using the quoted market price of Occidental s common stock
on the grant date and the number of shares expected to be issued based on the performance criteria.  Compensation expense is
adjusted during the vesting period only for changes in expected share payout.  Cumulative dividend equivalents are paid in cash at
the end of the performance period for the number of shares certified for payout.  PRSUs outstanding and unvested with a
weighted-average, grant-date fair value of $50.45 were 758,000 units as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007.  No PRSUs were issued in
2008 and 2007. The 2005 LTIP provides that no individual may be granted awards under that plan in excess of the specified plan
limits.  For purposes of applying the share limit, the target incentive value of awards, regardless of whether equity or cash
awards, may be converted to a share unit equivalent.  

PSAs and TSRIs   

  Certain executives are awarded PSAs and
TSRIs that vest at the end of the four-year period following the grant date if performance targets are certified as being met.  PSAs
were granted prior to July 2007 with payouts that range from 0 to 200 percent of the target award and include provisions to provide
that the first 100 percent payout will be settled only in stock and any payout in excess of 100 percent will be settled in cash.
TSRIs were granted in July 2008 and 2007, with payouts that range from 0 to 150 percent of the target award and include provisions
to provide for settlement, once certified, equally in stock and cash.  Dividend equivalents for PSA and TSRI target shares are paid
during the performance period regardless of the payout range or settlement provision.  

  The fair values of both the stock and
cash-settled portions of PSAs and TSRIs are measured on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model using Occidental's
assumptions, noted in the following table, and the volatility from corresponding peer companies.  The expected life is based on the
vesting period (Term).  The risk-free interest rate is the implied yield available on zero coupon T-notes (US Treasury Strip) at the
time of grant with a remaining term equal to the Term.  The dividend yield is the expected annual dividend yield over the Term,
expressed as a percentage of the stock price on the grant date.  Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future
events or the value ultimately realized by the employees who receive the awards, and subsequent events may not be indicative of the
reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by Occidental.  

The grant-date assumptions used in the
Monte Carlo simulation models for PSAs and TSRIs were as follows:  

59  

The fair value of the cash-settled
portion of the PSAs and TSRIs are further measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model each quarter, through vesting, using updated
assumptions.  Changes in value of the cash-settled portion of the PSAs and TSRIs are recorded in compensation expense each quarter.
Compensation expense is recognized ratably over the vesting period for all awards, along with the quarterly change in the fair value
of the cash-settled portion of the PSAs and TSRIs.  

  A summary of Occidental s unvested
PSAs and TSRIs as of December 31, 2008 and changes during the year ended December 31, 2008, is presented below:  

(a)   
     
        Unvested awards and award grants are presented
      at the target payouts.   

(b)   
     
        Actual payout may be up to 200 percent of this
      amount for PSAs.  The TSRIs have a maximum payout of 150 percent.   

(c)   
     
        The weighted-average payout at vesting was 155
      percent of the target.   

CSSUs   

  Certain employees are awarded the right
to receive CSSUs (which include and have been issued as Long-Term Incentive awards).  CSSUs are equivalent in value to actual shares
of Occidental common stock but are paid in cash at the time of vesting.  The fair value of the CSSUs is initially measured using the
grant date quoted market price of Occidental common stock and expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.  CSSUs vest
either in total over two years or ratably over three years after the grant date and can be forfeited or accelerated under certain
conditions.  For CSSUs which vest in total over two years, dividend equivalents are accumulated during the vesting period and are
paid when they vest. For CSSUs which vest ratably, dividend equivalents are paid during the vesting period.  Changes in the fair
value from the grant date until the date when the CSSUs vest are recognized as periodic compensation expense.  The weighted-average,
grant-date fair values of the CSSUs granted in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $76.23, $61.90 and $48.59, respectively.  

  A summary of changes in Occidental s
unvested CSSUs during the year ended December 31, 2008 is presented below:  

60  

NOTE
13    RETIREMENT PLANS AND POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS   

Occidental has various benefit plans for
its salaried, domestic union and nonunion hourly, and certain foreign national employees.  

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION
PLANS   

  All domestic employees and certain
foreign national employees are eligible to participate in one or more of the defined contribution retirement or savings plans that
provide for periodic contributions by Occidental based on plan-specific criteria, such as base pay, age level and employee
contributions.  Certain salaried employees participate in a supplemental retirement plan that provides restoration of benefits lost
due to governmental limitations on qualified retirement benefits.  The accrued liabilities for the supplemental retirement plan were
$97 million and $84 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and Occidental expensed $93 million in 2008, $86 million
in 2007 and $74 million in 2006 under the provisions of these defined contribution and supplemental retirement plans.  

DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS   

  Participation in the defined benefit
plans is limited and approximately 1,000 domestic and 2,200 foreign national employees, mainly union, nonunion hourly and certain
employees that joined Occidental from acquired operations with grandfathered benefits, are currently accruing benefits under these
plans.  

  Pension costs for Occidental s
defined benefit pension plans, determined by independent actuarial valuations, are generally funded by payments to trust funds,
which are administered by independent trustees.  

OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT
PLANS   

  Occidental provides medical and dental
benefits and life insurance coverage for certain active, retired and disabled employees and their eligible dependents.  The benefits
are generally funded by Occidental as the benefits are paid during the year.  The total benefit costs, including the postretirement
costs, were approximately $144 million in 2008, $131 million in 2007 and $120 million in 2006.  

OBLIGATIONS AND FUNDED
STATUS   

  Occidental adopted SFAS No. 158 on
December 31, 2006, which requires an employer to recognize the overfunded or underfunded amounts of its defined benefit pension and
postretirement plans in its financial statements.  Occidental uses a measurement date of December 31 for all defined benefit pension
and postretirement benefit plans.  The following table shows the funding status of Occidental's plans:  

61  

The projected benefit obligation,
accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans with an accumulated benefit
obligation in excess of plan assets were $388 million, $363 million and $233 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008, and
$111 million, $104 million and zero, respectively, as of December 31, 2007.  The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans with plan assets in excess of the accumulated benefit
obligation were $154 million, $146 million and $167 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008, and $415 million, $396 million
and $566 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007.  

  Occidental has 401(h) accounts
established within certain defined benefit pension plans.  These plans allow Occidental to fund postretirement medical
benefits for employees at two of its operations.  Contributions to these 401(h) accounts are made at Occidental's discretion. All of
Occidental's other postretirement benefit plans are unfunded.  

Amounts recognized in the consolidated
balance sheets consist of:  

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, AOCI
included the following after-tax balances:  

Occidental does not expect any plan
assets to be returned during 2009.  

COMPONENTS OF NET PERIODIC BENEFIT COST
AND OTHER AMOUNTS RECOGNIZED IN OCI   

(a)   
     
        Settlement cost relates to benefit distributions
      made in 2007.   

The estimated net loss and prior service
cost for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year
are $17 million and $1 million, respectively.  The estimated net loss and prior service cost for the other defined benefit
postretirement plans that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year are $21 million and
$1 million, respectively.  

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION   

  Occidental s defined benefit pension
and postretirement benefit plan obligations are determined based on various assumptions and discount rates.  Occidental uses the
fair value of assets to determine expected return on plan assets in calculating pension expense.  Occidental funds and expenses
negotiated pension increases for domestic union employees over the terms of the applicable collective bargaining
agreements.  

62  

The following table sets forth the
weighted-average assumptions used to determine Occidental's benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost for domestic
plans:  

For domestic pension plans and
postretirement benefit plans, Occidental based the discount rate on the Hewitt Bond Universe yield curve in 2008 and 2007.  The
weighted-average rate of increase in future compensation levels is consistent with Occidental s past and anticipated future
compensation increases for employees participating in retirement plans that determine benefits using compensation.  The assumed
long-term rate of return on assets is estimated with regard to current market factors but within the context of historical returns.
Occidental considers historical returns and correlation of equities and fixed income securities and current market factors such as
inflation and interest rates.  

  For pension plans outside the United
States, Occidental bases its discount rate on rates indicative of government or investment grade corporate debt in the applicable
country, taking into account hyperinflationary environments when necessary.  The discount rates used for the foreign pension plans
ranged from 1.5 percent to 12.0 percent at both December 31, 2008 and 2007.  The average rate of increase in future compensation
levels ranged from a low of 1.5 percent to a high of 12.0 percent in 2008, depending on local economic conditions and salary
budgets.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was 5.2 percent and 5.5 percent in excess of local inflation in 2008
and 2007, respectively.  

  The postretirement benefit obligation was
determined by application of the terms of medical and dental benefits and life insurance coverage, including the effect of
established maximums on covered costs, together with relevant actuarial assumptions and health care cost trend rates projected at an
assumed Consumer Price Index (CPI) increase of 2.25 percent and 2.5 percent as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Beginning in 1993, participants other than certain union employees have paid for all medical cost increases in excess of increases
in the CPI.  For those union employees, the health care cost trend rates were projected at annual rates ranging ratably from 9
percent in 2008 to 6 percent through the year 2011 and level thereafter.  A 1-percent increase or a 1-percent decrease in these
assumed health care cost trend rates would result in an increase of $24 million or a reduction of $23 million, respectively, in the
postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2008, and a corresponding increase or reduction of $1 million in interest cost
in 2008.  The annual service costs would not be materially affected by these changes.  

  The actuarial assumptions used could
change in the near term as a result of changes in expected future trends and other factors that, depending on the nature of the
changes, could cause increases or decreases in the plan liabilities.  

Asset allocations of Occidental s
defined benefit pension and funded postretirement benefit plans are as follows:  

Occidental employs a total return
investment approach that uses a mix of equity and fixed income investments to maximize the long-term return of plan assets at a
prudent level of risk.  The investments are monitored by Occidental s Investment Committee in its role as fiduciary.  The
Investment Committee, consisting of senior Occidental executives, selects and employs various external professional investment
management firms to manage specific assignments across the spectrum of asset classes.  The resulting aggregate investment portfolio
contains a diversified blend of equity and fixed-income investments.  Furthermore, equity investments are diversified across United
States and non-United States stocks, as well as differing styles and market capitalizations.  Other asset classes such as private
equity and real estate may be used to enhance long-term returns while improving portfolio diversification.  Investment performance
is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through quarterly investment and manager guideline compliance reviews, annual
liability measurements, and periodic studies.  

63  

Occidental expects to contribute $10
million to its defined benefit pension plans during 2009. All of the contributions are expected to be in the form of
cash.  

Estimated future benefit payments, which
reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are as follows:  

NOTE
14    INVESTMENTS AND RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS   

At December 31, 2008 and 2007,
investments in unconsolidated entities comprised $1.2 billion and $521 million of equity-method investments and $58 million and $234
million of advances to equity-method investees, respectively.  

EQUITY INVESTMENTS   

  At December 31, 2008, Occidental s
equity investments consisted mainly of a 24.5-percent interest in the stock of Dolphin Energy Limited (Dolphin Energy), a minority
interest in a North American oil and gas pipeline entity and various other partnerships and joint ventures, discussed below.  Equity
investments paid dividends of $111 million, $33 million and $113 million to Occidental in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  At
December 31, 2008, cumulative undistributed earnings of equity-method investees since their respective acquisitions were $219
million.  At December 31, 2008, Occidental s investments in equity investees exceeded the underlying equity in net assets by
$258 million, of which $140 million represents goodwill that will not be amortized and $118 million represents intangible assets,
which is being amortized over the life of the underlying assets.  

The following table presents
Occidental s ownership interest in the summarized financial information of its equity-method investments:  

Occidental s investment in the
Dolphin Project consists of two separate economic interests through which Occidental owns (i) a 24.5-percent undivided interest in
the assets and liabilities associated with a Development and Production Sharing Agreement, which is proportionately consolidated in
the financial statements; and (ii) a 24.5-percent ownership interest in the stock of Dolphin Energy, which is accounted for as an
equity investment.  In July 2005, Dolphin Energy entered into a bridge loan in an amount of $2.45 billion.  The new bridge loan had
a term of four years as a revolving credit facility through April 2008 and was converted to a term loan thereafter.  In September
2005, Dolphin Energy entered into an agreement with banks to provide a $1.0 billion facility to fund the construction of a certain
portion of the Dolphin Project.  Occidental guarantees 24.5 percent of both of these obligations.  At December 31, 2008,
Occidental s portion of the bridge loan and financing facility was $845 million.  Of this amount, Occidental had recorded $600
million as its proportionately consolidated share on the balance sheet at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2008, the remaining
$245 million of the bridge loan and financing facility represents a substantial majority of Occidental's guarantees.  

  In Ecuador, Occidental has a 14-percent
interest in the Oleoducto de Crudos Pesados Ltd. (OCP) oil export pipeline, which Occidental records as an equity investment.  The
project was funded in part by senior project debt, which is to be repaid with the proceeds of ship-or-pay tariffs of certain
upstream producers in Ecuador.  In May 2006, Ecuador  

64  

terminated Occidental's contract for the operation of
Block 15, which comprised all of its oil-producing operations in the country, and seized Occidental's Block 15 assets.  As of
December 31, 2008, Occidental's net investment in and advances to the project totaled $66 million and Occidental had accrued $263
million for related obligations, including all tariffs.  As of December 31, 2008, Occidental also had obligations relating to
performance bonds totaling $14 million.  

  Occidental has a 50-percent interest in
Elk Hills Power, LLC (EHP), a limited liability company that operates a gas-fired, power-generation plant in California, which it
accounts for as an equity-method investment.  

ADVANCES TO EQUITY
INVESTEES   

  Occidental had a note receivable (Note)
from an equity-method investee bearing interest at 2.5 percent, which was converted into a capital contribution of $173 million in
2008.  In 2004, Occidental converted a contribution to an equity-method investee into a subordinated revolving credit agreement
(Revolver), which expires on December 31, 2021.  At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the outstanding balance on the Revolver was $49
million and $52 million, respectively, including accrued interest of $1 million and $1 million, respectively.  

AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE
SECURITIES   

   Lyondell   

  In October 2006, Occidental sold 10
million shares of Lyondell Chemical Company's common stock in a registered public offering for a pre-tax gain of $90 million and
gross proceeds of $250 million.  In 2007, Occidental sold all of its remaining shares of Lyondell common stock (approximately 21
million shares) for a pre-tax gain of $326 million and gross proceeds of $672 million.  

RELATED-PARTY
TRANSACTIONS   

  Occidental purchases power, steam and
chemicals from and sells oil, gas, chemicals and power to certain of its equity investees at market-related prices.  During 2008,
2007 and 2006, Occidental entered into the following related-party transactions and had the following amounts due from or to its
related parties:  

NOTE
15    FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS   

As discussed in Note 3, Occidental
adopted the non-deferred portion of SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008 on a prospective basis.  In accordance with SFAS No. 157,
Occidental has categorized its assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, based on the priority of the inputs to the
valuation techniques, into a three-level fair value hierarchy: Level 1 is the use of quoted prices in active markets for identical
assets or liabilities; Level 2 is the use of other observable inputs other than quoted prices; and Level 3 is the use of
unobservable inputs.  

  As permitted under SFAS No. 157,
Occidental utilized the mid-point price between bid and ask prices for valuing the majority of its assets and liabilities measured
and reported at fair value.  Occidental utilizes market data and assumptions in pricing the assets or liabilities, including
assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique.  Occidental primarily applies the market
approach for recurring fair value measurements and utilizes valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and
minimize the use of unobservable inputs.  Certain of Occidental's financial instruments are valued using industry-standard models
that consider various assumptions, including quoted forward prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors, and current
market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures.  Substantially all of
these assumptions are observable in the marketplace throughout the full term of the instrument, can be derived from observable data
or are supported by observable prices at which transactions are executed in the marketplace.  

65  

The following table provides fair value
measurement information for such assets and liabilities that are measured on a recurring basis (in millions):  

NOTE
16    INDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS   

Occidental conducts its continuing
operations through three segments: (1) oil and gas, (2) chemical and (3) midstream and marketing.  The oil and gas segment explores
for, develops, produces and markets crude oil, NGLs, condensate and natural gas.  The chemical segment manufactures and markets
basic chemicals, vinyls and performance chemicals.  The midstream and marketing segment gathers, treats, processes, transports,
stores, trades and markets crude oil, natural gas, NGLs, condensate and CO 2  and generates and markets power.  

  Occidental changed its alignment of
operating segments at the beginning of 2008.  In previous years, oil and gas and a portion of the midstream and marketing operations
were reported as a single oil and gas segment and some of the corporate-directed midstream and marketing operations were reported
under corporate and other.  In the last two years, the Dolphin Project began transporting natural gas to the United Arab Emirates
and Occidental acquired a common carrier pipeline system in the Permian Basin, various gas processing plants and the remaining
ownership interest in a cogeneration facility.  The addition of these operations to the existing midstream and marketing
infrastructure caused management to realign its operating segments in order to increase its focus on these operations.  All segment
information for prior periods has been revised to retrospectively reflect the current segment reporting structure.  The change to
segment reporting had no effect on Occidental s reported consolidated earnings.  Each of the reportable segments represents
separate and distinct operations, is managed and receives resource allocation as a separate business unit and has its performance
separately evaluated.  

  Earnings of industry segments and
geographic areas generally exclude income taxes, interest income, interest expense, environmental remediation expenses, unallocated
corporate expenses and discontinued operations, but include gains and losses from dispositions of segment and geographic area assets
and income from the segments  equity investments.  

  Identifiable assets are those assets used
in the operations of the segments.  Corporate assets consist of cash, short-term investments, certain corporate receivables, an
available-for-sale investment in Lyondell (sold in 2007) and the investment in Joslyn.  

66  

INDUSTRY SEGMENTS   

  In millions  

(See footnotes on next page)  

67  

Footnotes:   

(c)   
     
        Total sales for the midstream and marketing
      segment were as follows:   

(d)   
     
        The 2008 amount includes a fourth quarter
      pre-tax charge of $599 million for asset impairments, including undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen and domestic
      producing properties (included in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense), and a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of
      $58 million for rig contract terminations.  The 2007 amount includes an after-tax gain of $412 million from the sale of
      Occidental s interest in a Russian joint venture, an after-tax gain of $112 million from certain litigation settlements,
      a pre-tax gain of $103 million from the sale of exploration properties, a pre-tax gain of $35 million from the sale of
      miscellaneous domestic oil and gas interests and a $74 million pre-tax loss from the exploration impairments.   

(e)   
     
        The 2008 amount includes a fourth quarter pre-tax
      charge of $90 million for plant closure and impairments.   

(f)   
     
        Includes unallocated net interest expense,
      administration expense, environmental remediation and other pre-tax items noted in footnote (g) below.   

(g)   
     
        Includes the following significant items affecting
      earnings for the years ended December 31:   

*   
     
        Amounts shown after-tax.    

**   
     
        Amounts represent the
      tax effect of all pre-tax adjustments listed, as well as those in Footnotes (d) and (e).     

(h)      
     
        Includes capital expenditures, capitalized
      interest and capitalized CO 2 , and excludes purchases of assets, net.   

GEOGRAPHIC AREAS   

  In millions  

(a)   
     
        Sales are shown by individual country based on
      the location of the entity making the sale.   

68  

NOTE
17    COSTS AND RESULTS OF OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES   

Occidental has classified its Horn
Mountain (in 2007), Pakistan (in 2007) and Ecuador (in 2006) operations as discontinued operations on a retrospective basis and
excluded them from all tables in this Note.  

  Capitalized costs relating to oil and gas
producing activities and related accumulated DD A were as follows:  

(a)   
     
        The 2008 and 2007 amounts reflect the minority
      interest in a Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of capitalized costs from an equity investee in
      Yemen.  The 2006 amounts include Occidental s share of capitalized costs from an equity investee in Yemen and a Russian
      joint venture, partially offset by the minority interest in a Colombian subsidiary.  Occidental's joint venture interest in
      Russia was sold in 2007.   

(b)   
     
        The 2008 amount primarily consists of additions in
      California, and additions in Permian and Midcontinent and Rockies from the Plains acquisitions.  In June 2008, Occidental
      entered into a PSC with the Libyan National Oil Company.  Prior to the effective date of this contract, Occidental operated in
      Libya under exploration, production-sharing and concession agreements.  The 2007 amount primarily consists of California,
      Argentina and Libya.  The 2006 amount primarily consists of additions in Argentina, California and Yemen from the Vintage
      acquisition as well as existing unproved properties in California, Libya and Oman.   

(c)   
     
        Includes costs related to leases, exploration
      costs, lease and well equipment, other equipment, capitalized interest, asset retirement obligations and other
      costs.   

69  

Costs incurred in oil and gas property
acquisition, exploration and development activities, whether capitalized or expensed, were as follows:  

(a)   
     
        The 2008 and 2007 amounts reflect the minority
      interest in a Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of costs incurred from an equity investee in Yemen.
      The 2006 amounts include Occidental s share of costs incurred from an equity investee in Yemen and a Russian joint
      venture, partially offset by the minority interest in a Colombian subsidiary.  Occidental's joint venture interest in Russia
      was sold in 2007.   

(b)   
     
        Includes acquisition costs and related step-up for
      deferred income taxes of $1.34 billion for the purchase of Vintage.  There was no goodwill recorded for this
      transaction.   

70  

The results of operations of
Occidental s oil and gas producing activities, which exclude oil and gas trading activities and items such as asset
dispositions, corporate overhead, interest and royalties, were as follows:  

(a)   
     
        The 2008 and 2007 amounts reflect the minority
      interest in a Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of the results of operations from an equity
      investee in Yemen.  The 2006 amounts include Occidental s share of the results of operations from an equity investee in
      Yemen and a Russian joint venture, partially offset by the minority interest in a Colombian subsidiary.  Occidental's joint
      venture interest in Russia was sold in 2007.   

(b)   
     
        Revenues from net production exclude royalty
      payments and other adjustments.   

(c)   
     
        Revenues and income tax expense include income
      taxes owed by Occidental but paid by governmental entities on its behalf.   

(d)   
     
        United States federal income taxes reflect certain
      expenses related to oil and gas activities allocated for United States income tax purposes only, including allocated interest
      and corporate overhead.  Foreign income taxes were included in geographic areas on the basis of operating
      results.   

71  

RESULTS PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION 
(Unaudited)  

(a)   
     
        The 2008 and 2007 amounts reflect the minority
      interest in a Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of the results of operations from an equity
      investee in Yemen.  The 2006 amounts include Occidental s share of the results of operations from an equity investee in
      Yemen and a Russian joint venture, partially offset by the minority interest in a Colombian subsidiary.  Occidental's joint
      venture interest in Russia was sold in 2007.   

(b)   
     
        Natural gas volumes have been converted to barrels
      of oil equivalent (BOE) based on energy content of six thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of gas to one barrel of oil.   

(c)   
     
        Revenues from net production exclude royalty
      payments and other adjustments.   

(d)   
     
        Revenues and income tax expense exclude income
      taxes owed by Occidental but paid by governmental entities on its behalf.   

(e)   
     
        United States federal income taxes reflect certain
      expenses related to oil and gas activities allocated for United States income tax purposes only, including allocated interest
      and corporate overhead.  Foreign income taxes were included in geographic areas on the basis of operating
      results.   

72  

2008 Quarterly Financial Data 
      (Unaudited)  
        In millions, except per-share amounts   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

(a)   
     
        Includes a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $599
      million for asset impairments, including undeveloped acreage in Argentina and Yemen and domestic producing properties
      (included in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense), and a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $58 million for rig
      contract terminations.   

(b)   
     
        Includes a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $90
      million for plant closure and impairments.   

73  

2007 Quarterly Financial Data 
      (Unaudited)  
        In millions, except per-share amounts   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

74  

Supplemental Oil and Gas Information 
  (Unaudited)  

The following tables set forth
Occidental s net interests in quantities of proved developed and undeveloped reserves of crude oil, NGLs, condensate and
natural gas and changes in such quantities.  Unless otherwise indicated hereafter, discussion of oil or oil and liquids refers to
crude oil, condensate and NGLs.  In addition, discussions of oil and gas production or volumes, in general, refer to sales volumes
unless context requires or it is indicated otherwise.  The reserves are stated after applicable royalties.  These estimates include
reserves in which Occidental holds an economic interest under PSCs and other similar economic arrangements.  

The reserve estimation process involves
reservoir engineers, geoscientists, planning engineers and financial analysts.  As part of this process, all reserves volumes are
estimated by a forecast of production rates, operating costs and capital expenditures.  Price differentials between benchmark prices
and prices realized and specifics of each operating agreement are then used to estimate the net reserves.  Production rate forecasts
are derived by a number of methods, including estimates from decline curve analyses, material balance calculations that take into
account the volume of substances replacing the volumes produced and associated reservoir pressure changes, or computer simulation of
the reservoir performance.  Operating costs and capital costs are forecast using current costs combined with expectations of future
costs for specific reservoirs.  In many cases, activity-based cost models for a reservoir are utilized to project operating costs as
production rates and the number of wells for production and injection vary.  

A senior corporate officer of Occidental
is responsible for the internal audit and review of its oil and gas reserves data.  In addition, a Corporate Reserves Review
Committee (Reserves Committee) has been established, consisting of senior corporate officers, to monitor and review Occidental's oil
and gas reserves.  The Reserves Committee reports to the Audit Committee of Occidental's Board of Directors periodically throughout
the year.  Occidental has retained Ryder Scott Company, L.P. (Ryder Scott), independent petroleum engineering consultants, to review
its annual oil and gas reserve estimation processes since 2003.  

In 2008, Ryder Scott compared
Occidental s methods and procedures for estimating oil and gas reserves to generally accepted industry standards and reviewed
certain pertinent facts interpreted and assumptions made in estimating the proved reserves volumes, preparing the economic
evaluations and determining reserves classifications.  Ryder Scott reviewed the specific application of such methods and procedures
for selected oil and gas properties considered to be a valid representation of Occidental s total reserves portfolio.  In 2008,
Ryder Scott reviewed approximately 22 percent of Occidental s proved oil and gas reserves.  Since being engaged in 2003, Ryder
Scott has reviewed the specific application of Occidental s reserve estimation methods and procedures for approximately 66
percent of Occidental s proved oil and gas reserves.  

Based on its reviews, including the data,
technical processes and interpretations presented by Occidental, Ryder Scott has concluded that the overall procedures and
methodologies utilized in determining the proved reserves for the reviewed properties as estimated by Occidental are reasonable and
consistent with generally accepted industry standards and comply with current Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) standards.
Ryder Scott has not been engaged to render an opinion as to the reasonableness of reserves quantities reported by
Occidental.  

Estimates of proved reserves are
collected in a database and changes in this database are reviewed by engineering personnel to ensure accuracy.  Finally, reserves
volumes and changes are reviewed and approved by Occidental's senior management.  

Occidental has classified its Horn
Mountain (in 2007), Pakistan (in 2007) and Ecuador (in 2006) operations as discontinued operations on a retrospective basis and
excluded them from all tables in the Supplemental Oil and Gas Information section.  

75  

Oil Reserves   

  In millions of barrels  

(a)   
     
        The 2008 and 2007 amounts reflect the minority
      interest in a Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of reserves from an equity investee in Yemen.  The
      2006 amounts include Occidental s share of reserves from an equity investee in Yemen and a Russian joint venture,
      partially offset by the minority interest in a Colombian subsidiary.  Occidental's joint venture interest in Russia was sold
      in 2007.   

(b)   
     
        All Middle East/North Africa amounts are related
      to PSCs, and do not include amounts related to income taxes owed by Occidental but paid by governmental entities on its
      behalf.  In June 2008, Occidental entered into a PSC with the Libyan National Oil Company.  Prior to the effective date of
      this contract, Occidental operated in Libya under exploration, production-sharing and concession agreements.   

(c)   
     
        Approximately one percent of the proved developed
      reserves at December 31, 2008 are nonproducing.  The majority of these volumes are located in the United States and the
      remainder is in Latin America and Middle East/North Africa.   

76  

Gas Reserves   

  In billions of cubic feet  

(a)   
     
        All Middle East/North Africa amounts are related
      to PSCs, and do not include amounts related to income taxes owed by Occidental but paid by governmental entities on its
      behalf.   

(b)   
     
        Approximately three percent of the proved
      developed reserves at December 31, 2008 are nonproducing.  The substantial majority of these volumes are located in the United
      States.   

77  

STANDARDIZED MEASURE, INCLUDING
YEAR-TO-YEAR CHANGES THEREIN, OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS   

  For purposes of the following
disclosures, future cash flows were computed by applying year-end prices to Occidental's proved oil and gas reserves, except in
those instances in which sales are covered by physical contract terms, in which case contract price and terms for the periods during
which reserves are expected to be produced were taken into account.  Derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges have
not been included in the estimates of future net cash flows.  Future development and production costs were computed by applying
current costs.  Future income tax expenses were computed by applying, generally, year-end statutory tax rates (adjusted for
permanent differences, tax credits, allowances and foreign income repatriation considerations) to the estimated net future pre-tax
cash flows.  The discount was computed by application of a 10-percent discount factor.  The calculations assumed the continuation of
existing economic, operating and contractual conditions at each of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  Such arbitrary assumptions
have not necessarily proven accurate in the past.  Other assumptions of equal validity would give rise to substantially different
results.  

  The year-end realized prices used to
calculate future cash flows vary by producing area and market conditions.  For the 2008, 2007 and 2006 disclosures, the West Texas
Intermediate oil prices used were $44.60 per barrel, $95.98 per barrel and $61.05 per barrel, respectively.  The Henry Hub gas
prices used for the 2008, 2007 and 2006 disclosures were $5.71 per MMBtu, $6.795 per MMBtu and $5.64 per MMBtu,
respectively.  

Standardized Measure of Discounted
Future Net Cash Flows   

  In millions  

(a)   
     
        The 2008 and 2007 amounts reflect the minority
      interest in a Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of the future net cash flows from an equity
      investee in Yemen.  The 2006 amounts include Occidental s share of the future net cash flows from an equity investee in
      Yemen and a Russian joint venture, partially offset by the minority interest in a Colombian subsidiary.  Occidental's joint
      venture interest in Russia was sold in 2007.   

(b)   
     
        Includes dismantlement and abandonment
      costs.   

78  

Changes in the Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future   

   Net Cash Flows From Proved Reserve
Quantities   

  In millions  

Average Sales Prices and Average
Production Costs of Oil and Gas   

  The following table sets forth, for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, Occidental s approximate average sales prices and average production
costs of oil and gas.  Production costs are the costs incurred in lifting the oil and gas to the surface and include gathering,
treating, primary processing, field storage, property and production taxes and insurance on proved properties, but do not include
depreciation, depletion and amortization, royalties, income taxes, interest, general and administrative and other
expenses.  

(a)   
     
        Sales prices include royalties with respect to
      certain of Occidental s interests.   

(b)   
     
        Includes prices and costs applicable to the equity
      investee in Yemen.  Occidental's joint venture interest in Russia was sold in 2007, and all years exclude the prices and costs
      applicable to the joint venture interest in Russia.   

(c)   
     
        Excludes income taxes owed by Occidental but paid
      by governmental entities on its behalf.   

(d)   
     
        Natural gas volumes have been converted to BOE
      based on energy content of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil.   

(e)   
     
        Includes taxes other than on income of $2.62,
      $1.97 and $1.94 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

79  

Net Productive and Dry  
Exploratory and Development Wells Completed   

  The following table sets forth, for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, Occidental s net productive and dry exploratory and development
wells completed.  

(a)   
     
        The 2008 and 2007 amounts reflect the minority
      interest in a Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of the amounts applicable from an equity investee
      in Yemen.  The 2006 amounts include Occidental s share of the amounts applicable from an equity investee in Yemen and a
      Russian joint venture, partially offset by the minority interest in a Colombian subsidiary.  Occidental's joint venture
      interest in Russia was sold in 2007.   

Productive Oil and Gas
Wells   

  The following table sets forth, as of
December 31, 2008, Occidental s productive oil and gas wells (both producing and capable of production).  

(a)   
     
        The numbers in parentheses indicate the number
      of wells with multiple completions.   

(b)   
     
        The amounts reflect the minority interest in a
      Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of the amounts applicable from an equity investee in
      Yemen.   

(c)   
     
        The total number of wells in which interests are
      owned.   

(d)   
     
        The sum of fractional interests.   

80  

Participation in Exploratory and
Development Wells Being Drilled   

  The following table sets forth, as of
December 31, 2008, Occidental s participation in exploratory and development wells being drilled.  

(a)   
     
        The amounts reflect the minority interest in a
      Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of the amounts applicable from an equity investee in
      Yemen.   

At December 31, 2008, Occidental was
participating in 177 pressure maintenance projects in the United States, 21 in Latin America and 27 in the Middle East/North
Africa.  

Oil and Gas Acreage   

  The following table sets forth, as of
December 31, 2008, Occidental s holdings of developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage.  

(a)   
     
        Acres spaced or assigned to productive
      wells.   

(b)   
     
        Total acres in which interests are
      held.   

(c)   
     
        Sum of the fractional interests owned based on
      working interests, or interests under PSCs and other economic arrangements..   

(d)   
     
        Acres on which wells have not been drilled or
      completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether the
      acreage contains proved reserves.   

(e)   
     
        The amounts reflect the minority interest in a
      Colombian subsidiary, partially offset by Occidental's share of the amounts applicable from an equity investee in
      Yemen.   

81  

Oil and Natural Gas Sales Volumes and
Production Per Day   

  The following tables set forth the sales
volumes and production of oil and liquids and natural gas per day for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008.
The differences between the sales volumes and production per day are generally due to the timing of shipments at Occidental s
international locations where product is loaded onto tankers.  Sale at these locations is not recognized until a tanker is loaded
and title passes.  

(See footnotes following the Production per Day
table)  

82  

(a)   
     
        Natural gas volumes have been converted to BOE
      based on energy content of six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil.   

(b)   
     
        Occidental has classified its Pakistan (in 2007),
      Horn Mountain (in 2007) and Ecuador (in 2006) operations as discontinued operations on a retrospective application basis and
      excluded them from this table.  Excludes production from Pakistan operations, which averaged 17,000 BOE per day in 2006.
      Excludes production from Horn Mountain operations, which averaged 13,000 BOE per day in 2006.  Excludes production from
      Ecuador operations, which averaged 43,000 BOE per day for the first five months of 2006.  Also excluded is production from a
      Russian joint venture (sold in January 2007), which averaged 27,000 BOE per day in 2006.   

83  

Schedule II   Valuation and
      Qualifying Accounts   
        In millions   
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation  
        and Subsidiaries   

(a)   
     
        Of these amounts, $130 million, $123 million and
      $139 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are classified as current.   

(b)   
     
        Primarily represents acquisitions.   

(c)   
     
        Primarily represents payments.   

(d)   
     
        Primarily represents reversal of liabilities for
      unrecognized tax benefits due to Occidental's adoption of FIN No. 48.   

(e)   
     
        Primarily represents acquisitions and balance
      sheet reclassifications.   

84  

ITEM 9    
     
         CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
      ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE      

  Not applicable.  

ITEM 9A    
     
         CONTROLS AND
      PROCEDURES      

   DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND
PROCEDURES   

  Occidental's Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer and its President and Chief Financial Officer supervised and participated in Occidental's evaluation of its
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report.  Disclosure controls and procedures are
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in Occidental's periodic reports filed or
submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms.  Based upon that evaluation, Occidental's Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Occidental's disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2008.  

  There has been no change in Occidental's
internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, Occidental's internal control over financial reporting.  Management s Annual Assessment of and Report on
Occidental s Internal Control over Financial Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting are set forth in Item 8.  

Part III   

ITEM 10    
     
         DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND
      CORPORATE GOVERNANCE      

  Occidental has adopted a Code of Business
Conduct (Code).  The Code applies to the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Financial Officer,
Principal Accounting Officer and persons performing similar functions (Key Personnel).  The Code also applies to Occidental's
directors, its employees and the employees of entities it controls.  The Code is posted at www.oxy.com.  Occidental will satisfy any
disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, any provision of the Code with respect
to its Key Personnel or directors by disclosing the nature of that amendment or waiver on its website.  

  This item incorporates by reference the
information regarding Occidental's directors appearing under the caption "Election of Directors" and "Nominations for Directors for
Term Expiring in 2009" in Occidental's definitive proxy statement filed in connection with its May 1, 2009, Annual Meeting of
Stockholders (2009 Proxy Statement). The list of Occidental's executive officers and significant employees and related information
under "Executive Officers" set forth in Part I of this report is incorporated by reference herein.  

ITEM 11    
     
         EXECUTIVE
      COMPENSATION      

  This item incorporates by reference the
information appearing under the captions "Executive Compensation" (except information under the sub-caption "   2008
Performance Highlights") and "Election of Directors   Information Regarding the Board of Directors and Its Committees" in the
2009 Proxy Statement.  

ITEM 12    
     
         SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
      BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT      

  This item incorporates by reference the
information with respect to security ownership appearing under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" in the 2009 Proxy Statement.  See also the information under "Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity
Compensation Plans" in Part II, Item 5 of this report.  

ITEM 13    
     
         CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
      TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE      

  This item incorporates by reference the
information appearing under the caption "Election of Directors   Information Regarding the Board of Directors and its
Committees   Independence and   Corporate Governance" and "   Related Party Transactions" in the 2009 Proxy
Statement.  

ITEM 14    
     
         PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND
      SERVICES      

  This item incorporates by reference the
information with respect to accountant fees and services appearing under the captions "Ratification of Independent Auditors  
Audit and Other Fees and   Report of the Audit Committee" in the 2009 Proxy Statement.  

85  

Part IV   

ITEM 15    
     
         EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
      SCHEDULES      

  The agreements included as exhibits to this report are
included to provide information about their terms and not to provide any other factual or disclosure information about Occidental or
the other parties to the agreements.  The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable
agreement that were made solely for the benefit of the other agreement parties and:  

should not be treated as categorical statements
      of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk among the parties if those statements prove to be
      inaccurate;    

have been qualified by disclosures that were
      made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which disclosures are not necessarily
      reflected in the agreement;    

may apply standards of materiality in a way that
      is different from the way investors may view materiality; and    

were made only as of the date of the applicable
      agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent
      developments.     

   (a) (1) and (2). Financial Statements and Financial
Statement Schedule   

  Reference is made to Item 8 of the Table of Contents of
this report, where these documents are listed.  

   (a) (3). Exhibits   

2.1 *     
     
        Agreement and Plan of Merger among Occidental
      Petroleum Corporation, Occidental Transaction 1, LLC and Vintage Petroleum, Inc., dated as of October 13, 2005. (Disclosure
      schedules to this agreement have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K) (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
      Current Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated October 13, 2005 (filed October 17, 2005), File No.
      1-9210).    

3.(i) *     
     
        Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
      Occidental, dated November 12, 1999 (filed as Exhibit 3.(i) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Occidental for the fiscal
      year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-9210).    

3.(i)(a) *     
     
        Certificate of Change of Location of Registered
      Office and of Registered Agent, dated July 6, 2001 (filed as Exhibit 3.1(i) to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of
      Occidental, File No. 333-82246).    

3.(i)(b) *     
     
        Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate
      of Incorporation of Occidental Petroleum Corporation, dated May 5, 2006 (filed as Exhibit 3.(i)(b) to the Annual Report on
      Form 10-K of Occidental for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, File No.1-9210).    

3.(ii) *     
     
        Bylaws of Occidental, as amended through May 3,
      2007 (filed as Exhibit 3.(ii) to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated May 4, 2007 (date of earliest event
      reported), File No. 1-9210).    

4.1 *     
     
        Occidental Petroleum Corporation Amended and
      Restated Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of September 27, 2006, among Occidental; J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and
      Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Co-Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as
      Co-Syndication Agents, BNP Paribas, Bank of America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as
      Co-Documentation Agents, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Administrative Agent (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Quarterly Report on
      Form 10-Q of Occidental for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006, File No. 1-9210).    

4.2 *     
     
        Indenture (Senior Debt Securities), dated as of
      April 1, 1998, between Occidental and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (filed as Exhibit 4 to the Registration Statement on
      Form S-3 of Occidental, File No. 333-52053).    

4.3 *     
     
        Specimen certificate for shares of Common Stock
      (filed as Exhibit 4.9 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 of Occidental, File No. 333-82246).    

4.4 *     
     
        Form of Officers  Certificate, dated October
      21, 2008, establishing the terms and form of the 7% Notes due 2013 (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of
      Occidental dated October 16, 2008 (date of earliest event reported), File No. 1-9210).    

4.5 *     
     
        Form of 7% Note due 2013 (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
      the Current Report on Form 8-K of Occidental dated October 16, 2008 (date of earliest event reported), File No.
      1-9210).    

4.6    
     
        Instruments defining the rights of holders of
      other long-term debt of Occidental and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of securities authorized
      under each of such instruments does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of Occidental and its subsidiaries on a
      consolidated basis. Occidental agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the Commission upon
      request.     

  All of the Exhibits numbered 10.1 to
10.60 are management contracts and compensatory plans required to be identified specifically as responsive to Item
601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K pursuant to Item 15(b) of Form 10-K.  

_________________________  

   *  Incorporated herein by
reference  

86  

_________________________  

   *  Incorporated herein by
reference  

  87  

_________________________  

   *  Incorporated herein by
reference  

88  

_________________________  

   *  Incorporated herein by
reference  

89  

SIGNATURES   

  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.  

OCCIDENTAL
      PETROLEUM CORPORATION    

February
      24, 2009   
     
        By:   
     
        /s/
      RAY R. IRANI    

Ray
      R. Irani  
        Chairman
      of the Board of Directors  
        and
      Chief Executive Officer     

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.  

Title     

Date      

/s/
      RAY R. IRANI   

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors   

February
      24, 2009    

Ray
      R. Irani   

and
      Chief Executive Officer   

/s/
      STEPHEN I. CHAZEN   

President
      and Chief Financial Officer   

February
      24, 2009    

Stephen
      I. Chazen   

/s/
      ROY PINECI   

Vice
      President, Controller and   

February
      24, 2009    

Roy
      Pineci   

Principal
      Accounting Officer   

/s/
      SPENCER ABRAHAM   

Director   

February
      24, 2009    

Spencer
      Abraham   

/s/
      RONALD W. BURKLE   

Director   

February
      24, 2009    

Ronald
      W. Burkle   

/s/
      JOHN S. CHALSTY   

Director   

February
      24, 2009    

John
      S. Chalsty   

/s/
      EDWARD P. DJEREJIAN   

Director   

February
      24, 2009    

Edward
      P. Djerejian   

/s/
      JOHN E. FEICK   

Director   

February
      24, 2009    

John E. Feick   

/s/
      IRVIN W. MALONEY   

Director   

February
      24, 2009    

Irvin W. Maloney   

90  

91  

This report was printed on recycled paper.  

    2009 Occidental Petroleum Corporation  

92  

EXHIBITS   

<EX-12>
 14
 exhibit12-2008.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12 

EXHIBIT 12   

OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARIES   

   COMPUTATION OF TOTAL ENTERPRISE RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO
FIXED CHARGES   

  (Amounts in millions, except ratios)  

(a)   
     
        Represents minority interests in net income of
      majority-owned subsidiaries and partnerships having fixed charges.   

(b)   
     
        Represents income from equity investments adjusted
      to reflect only dividends received.   

(c)   
     
        Includes proportionate share of interest and debt
      expense of equity investments. The 2007 amount includes a pre-tax charge of $167 million for the redemption and partial
      repurchase of various debt issues.   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 15
 exhibit21-2008.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21 

EXHIBIT 21   

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES   

The following is a list of the Registrant s
subsidiaries at December 31, 2008, other than certain subsidiaries that did not in the aggregate constitute a significant
subsidiary.  

Name   

Jurisdiction of Formation    

Centurion Pipeline GP, Inc.   

Delaware    

Centurion Pipeline LP, Inc.   

Delaware    

Centurion Pipeline L.P.   

Delaware    

D. S. Ventures, Inc.   

Texas    

EHPP Holdings Inc.   

Delaware    

Glenn Springs Holdings, Inc.   

Delaware    

INDSPEC Chemical Corporation   

Delaware    

INDSPEC Holding Corporation   

Delaware    

INDSPEC Technologies, Ltd.   

Pennsylvania    

Ingleside Cogeneration GP, Inc.   

Delaware    

Ingleside Cogeneration GP 2, Inc.   

Delaware    

Ingleside Cogeneration Limited Partnership   

Delaware    

Joslyn Partnership   

Canada    

Laguna Petroleum Corporation   

Texas    

NGL Ventures LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental Andina, LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental Argentina Exploration and Production,
      Inc.   

Cayman Islands    

Occidental (Bermuda) Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Occidental Canada Holdings Ltd.   

Canada    

Occidental Chemical Chile Limitada   

Chile    

Occidental Chemical Corporation   

New York    

Occidental Chemical Holding
      Corporation   

California    

Occidental Chemical Nevis, Inc.   

Nevis    

Occidental Chile Investments, LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental Crude Sales, Inc.
      (International)   

Delaware    

Occidental de Colombia, Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental del Ecuador, Inc.   

Nevis    

Occidental Dolphin Holdings Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Occidental (East Shabwa), LLC   

Nevis    

Occidental Energy Marketing, Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental Energy Ventures Corp.   

Delaware    

Occidental International Exploration and Production
      Company   

California    

Occidental International Holdings
      Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Occidental International (Libya),
      Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental International Oil and Gas
      Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Occidental International Services,
      Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental Joslyn GP 1 Co.   

Canada    

Occidental Joslyn GP 2 Co.   

Canada    

Occidental Latin America Holdings,
      Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental Libya Oil   Gas B.V.   

Netherlands    

Occidental Mukhaizna, LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental of Elk Hills, Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental of Oman, Inc.   

Nevis    

Occidental of Yemen (Block S-1), Inc.   

Cayman Islands    

Occidental Oil and Gas Holding
      Corporation   

California     

EXHIBIT 21  (cont d.)  

Name   

Jurisdiction of Formation    

Occidental OOOI Holder, Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental Overseas Holdings B.V.   

Netherlands    

Occidental Overseas Operations, Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental Peninsula, LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental Peninsula II, Inc.   

Nevis    

Occidental Permian Ltd.   

Texas    

Occidental Permian Manager LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental Petroleum Investment Co.   

California    

Occidental Petroleum of Qatar Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Occidental Power Services, Inc.   

Delaware    

Occidental PVC, LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental Qatar Energy Company LLC   

Delaware    

Occidental Quimica do Brasil Ltda.   

Brazil    

Occidental Resources Company   

Cayman Islands    

Occidental Transportation Holding
      Corporation   

Delaware    

Occidental Yemen Ltd.   

Bermuda    

OOG Partner Inc.   

Delaware    

OOOI Chemical International, LLC   

Delaware    

OOOI Chemical Management, Inc.   

Delaware    

OOOI Chile Holder, Inc.   

Nevis    

OOOI Oil and Gas Management, Inc.   

Delaware    

OOOI Oil and Gas Sub, LLC   

Delaware    

OXYMAR   

Texas    

OXY Dolphin E P, LLC   

Nevis    

Oxy Cogeneration Holding Company,
      Inc.   

Delaware    

OXY Dolphin Pipeline, LLC   

Nevis    

Oxy Energy Canada, Inc.   

Delaware    

Oxy Energy Services, Inc.   

Delaware    

Oxy Holding Company (Pipeline), Inc.   

Delaware    

Oxy Libya, LLC   

Delaware    

Oxy Libya E P Area 106 Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Oxy Libya E P Area 124 Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Oxy Libya E P Area 131 Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Oxy Libya E P Area 163 Ltd.   

Bermuda    

OXY Long Beach, Inc.   

Delaware    

OXY NM LP   

Texas    

OXY Oil Partners, Inc.   

Delaware    

OXY PBLP Holder, Inc.   

Delaware    

OXY PBLP Manager, LLC   

Delaware    

Oxy Pipeline I Company   

Delaware    

OXY USA Inc.   

Delaware    

OXY USA WTP LP   

Delaware    

Oxy Vinyls Canada Co.   

Canada    

Oxy Vinyls, LP   

Delaware    

OXY VPP Investments, Inc.   

Delaware    

Oxy Westwood Corporation   

California    

Permian Basin Limited Partnership   

Delaware    

Permian VPP Holder, LP   

Delaware    

Permian VPP Manager, LLC   

Delaware    

Plains AAP, L.P.   

Delaware     

EXHIBIT 21  (cont d.)  

Name   

Jurisdiction of Formation    

PXP CV Pipeline LLC   

Delaware    

Repsol Occidental Corporation   

Delaware    

Stockdale Oil and Gas, Inc.   

California    

Vintage Petroleum Boliviana, Ltd.   

Bermuda    

Vintage Production California LLC   

Delaware    

Vintage Petroleum International, Inc.   

Oklahoma    

Vintage Petroleum International Holdings,
      Inc.   

Delaware    

Vintage Petroleum South America Holdings,
      Inc.   

Cayman
      Islands     

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 16
 exhibit231-2008.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 23.1 

EXHIBIT 23.1   

   Consent of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm   

  To the Board of Directors  

  Occidental Petroleum Corporation:  

  We consent to the incorporation by
reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-142705, 333-123324, 33-14662, 33-47636, 33-64719, 333-49207, 333-72719,
333-78031, 333-37970, 333-55404, 333-63444, 333-82246, 333-83124, 333-96951, 333-104827, 333-115099, 333-124732 and 333-152875) on
Forms S-3 and S-8 of Occidental Petroleum Corporation of our reports dated February 24, 2009, with respect to the consolidated
balance sheets of Occidental Petroleum Corporation as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of
income, stockholders  equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2008 and the related financial statement schedule, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2008, which reports appear in the December 31, 2008 annual report on Form 10-K of Occidental Petroleum
Corporation.  Our report on the financial statements of Occidental Petroleum Corporation refers to (i) a change in the method of
measuring fair value for financial assets and liabilities, (ii) a change in the method of accounting for uncertain tax positions,
and (iii) a change in the method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.  

  /s/ KPMG LLP  

  Los Angeles, California  

  February 24, 2009  

</EX-23>

<EX-23>
 17
 exhibit232-2008.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.2

Exhibit 23.2 

EXHIBIT 23.2   

   EXPERT CONSENT   

  To the Board of Directors  

  Occidental Petroleum Corporation:  

  We consent to the inclusion in the
Occidental Petroleum Corporation (Occidental) Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and the incorporation by reference in
Occidental s registration statements (Nos. 333-123324, 33-14662, 33-47636, 33-64719, 333-49207, 333-72719, 333-78031,
333-37970, 333-55404, 333-63444, 333-82246, 333-83124, 333-96951, 333-104827, 333-115099, 333-124732, 333-142705 and 333-152875), of
references to our name and to our letter dated January 31, 2009, relating to our review of the methods and procedures used by
Occidental for estimating its oil and gas proved reserves.  

  /s/  RYDER SCOTT COMPANY,
L.P.   

  Houston, Texas  

  February 23, 2009  

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 18
 exhibit311-2008.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1   

   RULE 13a   14(a) / 15d   14
(a)   

   CERTIFICATION   

   PURSUANT TO  302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF
2002   

  I, Ray R. Irani, certify that:  

  1.    I have reviewed this annual
report on Form 10-K of Occidental Petroleum Corporation;  

  2.    Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;  

  3.    Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

  4.    The registrant's other
certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

  (a)   Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  (b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

  (c)   Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and  

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):  

  (a)   All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and  

  (b)   Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
control over financial reporting.  

  Date: February 24, 2009  

  /s/
RAY R. IRANI  

  Ray
R. Irani  

  Chairman
of the Board of Directors and  

  Chief
Executive Officer  

</EX-31>

<EX-31>
 19
 exhibit312-2008.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.2   

   RULE 13a   14(a) / 15d   14
(a)   

   CERTIFICATION   

   PURSUANT TO  302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF
2002   

  I, Stephen I. Chazen, certify that:  

  1.    I have reviewed this annual
report on Form 10-K of Occidental Petroleum Corporation;  

  2.    Based on my knowledge, this
report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;  

  3.    Based on my knowledge, the
financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  

  4.    The registrant's other
certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  

  (a)   Designed such
disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to
ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others
within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  

  (b)   Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our
supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  

  (c)   Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and  

  (d)   Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most
recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and  

  5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over
financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):  

  (a)   All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and  

  (b)   Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
control over financial reporting.  

  Date: February 24, 2009  

  /s/
STEPHEN I. CHAZEN  

  Stephen
I. Chazen  

  President
and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 20
 exhibit321-2008.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1   

   CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO   

   18 U.S.C.   1350,   

   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   

     906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

  In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
Occidental Petroleum Corporation (the  Company ) for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2009 (the  Report ), Ray R. Irani, as Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, and Stephen I. Chazen, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350,
as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to the best of his knowledge:  

(1)   
     
        The Report fully
      complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and    

(2)   
     
        The information
      contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company.     

  /s/
RAY R. IRANI  

Name:   
     
        Ray R.
      Irani    

Title:   
     
        Chairman of the Board of
      Directors and Chief Executive Officer    

Date:    
     
        February 24,
      2009     

  /s/
STEPHEN I. CHAZEN  

Name:   
     
        Stephen I.
      Chazen    

Title:   
     
        President and Chief
      Financial Officer    

Date:    
     
        February 24,
      2009     

  A signed original
of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Occidental Petroleum Corporation and will be retained by
Occidental Petroleum Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

  This certification
accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not, except to the extent required by the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.  

</EX-32>

