<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080220_10-K_edgar_data_40545_0000040545-08-000011_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6782749</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>359141</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>145966</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4973521</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>150</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>9</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000040545-08-000011.hdr.sgml : 20080220
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080220085426
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000040545-08-000011
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		18
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080220
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080220

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GENERAL ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000040545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]
		IRS NUMBER:				140689340
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00035
		FILM NUMBER:		08628399

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3135 EASTON TURNPIKE
		STREET 2:		W3M
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06828
		BUSINESS PHONE:		203-373-2211

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3135 EASTON TURNPIKE
		STREET 2:		W3M
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06828

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 FmKeWm7afZ+DeU2QYYJSw4BOYJI6giTySqaKA/iC+xPthLSDQtVOhLz1JrdCtbnf
 IpZA2+Ro3DD6bYsc/ZCXRw==

 0000040545-08-000011.txt : 20080220

10-K
 1
 frm10k.htm

frm10k.htm 

United
States Securities and Exchange Commission 

        WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549 

FORM
10-K 

(Mark
      One) 

Annual
      Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934 

For
      the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 

or 

Transition
      Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934 

For
      the transition period from ___________to ___________ 

Commission
      file number 1-35 

General
      Electric Company 

                  (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in
charter) 

Securities
      Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

(Title
      of class) 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No     

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes     No     

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 

Large
      accelerated filer     

Accelerated
      filer     

Non-accelerated
      filer      

Smaller
      reporting company     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). Yes     No     

The
aggregate market value of the outstanding common equity of the registrant as of
the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter was $392.2 billion. Affiliates of the Company beneficially own, in the
aggregate, less than one-tenth of one percent of such shares. There were
9,985,669,000 shares of voting common stock with a par value of $0.06
outstanding at February 1, 2008. 

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

The
Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 is
incorporated by reference in Parts I, II and III to the extent described
therein. The definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant s Annual
Meeting of Shareowners, to be held April 23, 2008, is incorporated by reference
in Part III to the extent described therein. 

(1) 

Table
      of Contents 

Page 

Part I  

Item 1.  

Business 

3 

Item 1A.  

Risk
      Factors 

16 

Item 1B.  

Unresolved
      Staff Comments 

17 

Item 2.  

Properties 

17 

Item 3.  

Legal
      Proceedings 

17 

Item 4.  

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

20 

Part II  

Item 5.  

Market
      for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases 

of
      Equity Securities 

20 

Item 6.  

Selected
      Financial Data 

21 

Item 7.  

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations 

21 

Item 7A.  

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

21 

Item 8.  

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data 

21 

Item 9.  

Changes
      in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure 

21 

Item 9A.  

Controls
      and Procedures 

22 

Item 9B.  

Other
      Information 

22 

Part III  

Item 10.  

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

22 

Item 11.  

Executive
      Compensation 

23 

Item 12.  

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and 

Related
      Stockholder Matters 

23 

Item 13.  

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence 

23 

Item 14.  

Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services 

23 

Part IV  

Item 15.  

Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules 

24 

Signatures  

31 

(2) 

Part
      I 

Item
      1. 

Business 

General 

Unless
otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms  GE,   GECS  and  GE
Capital  on the basis of consolidation described in note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements on page 70 of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareowners of
General Electric Company (the Company). The financial section of such Annual
Report to Shareowners (pages 39 through 113 of that document) is described
in Part IV Item 15(a)(1) and set forth in Exhibit 13 of this 10-K Report
and is an integral part hereof. References in Parts I and II of this 10-K Report
are to the page numbers of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareowners. Also, unless
otherwise indicated by the context,  General Electric  means the parent company,
General Electric Company. 

General
Electric s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain
executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT
06828-0001. 

We
are one of the largest and most diversified technology, media, and financial
services corporations in the world. With products and services ranging from
aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and security technology to
medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and industrial
products, we serve customers in more than 100 countries and employ more than
300,000 people worldwide.  Since our incorporation in 1892, we have
developed or acquired new technologies and services that have broadened
considerably the scope of our activities. 

In
virtually all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and
able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by
changing technology that requires continuing research and development, as well
as customer commitments. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe
that, in general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major
industries in which we participate. The NBC Television Network is one of four
major U.S. commercial broadcast television networks. We also compete in
syndicated broadcast television programming, cable/satellite television
programming activities and in the motion picture industry. The businesses in
which GECS engages are subject to competition from various types of financial
institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment banks,
broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan companies,
independent finance companies and finance companies associated with
manufacturers. 

(3) 

This
document contains  forward-looking statements  -  that is, statements
related to future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements
often address our expected future business and financial performance, and often
contain words such as  expect,   anticipate,   intend,   plan,   believe, 
 seek,  or  will.  Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters
that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that
could adversely or positively affect our future results include: the behavior of
financial markets, including fluctuations in interest and exchange rates and
commodity and equity prices; the commercial and consumer credit environment; the
impact of regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal actions; strategic
actions, including acquisitions and dispositions; future integration of acquired
businesses; future financial performance of major industries which we serve,
including, without limitation, the air and rail transportation, energy
generation, media, real estate and healthcare industries; and numerous other
matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political,
economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our
actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our
forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking
statements. 

Our
consolidated global revenues increased to $86.5 billion in 2007, compared with
$70.8 billion in 2006 and $60.9 billion in 2005. For additional information
about our geographic operations, see pages 51 and 52 of the 2007 Annual
Report to Shareowners. 

Operating
Segments 

Segment
revenue and profit information is presented on page 47 of the 2007 Annual Report
to Shareowners. Additional financial data and commentary on recent financial
results for operating segments are provided on pages 46-51 of that report
and in note 25 (pages 98 and 99) to the consolidated financial
statements. 

Operating
businesses that are reported as segments include Infrastructure, Commercial
Finance, GE Money, Healthcare, NBC Universal and Industrial. There is
appropriate elimination of the net earnings of GECS and the effect of
transactions between segments to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary
description of each of our operating segments follows. 

During
the fourth quarter of 2007, we transferred the Equipment Services business from
the Industrial segment to the Commercial Finance segment, where a portion of the
business is reported in Capital Solutions. Prior period information has been
reclassified to be consistent with the current organization. 

We
also continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information
for certain businesses within the segments. 

Infrastructure 

Infrastructure
(33.5%, 30.9% and 30.5% of consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively) is one of the world s leading providers of essential technologies
to developed, developing and emerging countries.  Through products and
services in aviation, energy, oil and gas, transportation, and water and process
technologies, GE is helping to develop the infrastructure of countries all over
the world.  Infrastructure also provides aviation financing as well as
energy and water investing, lending and leasing. 

Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South
America. 

(4) 

Aviation
and Aviation Financial Services 

Aviation
produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and
related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our
military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters,
bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine
applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of
range: short/medium, intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and
regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International,
a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and
the Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt  
Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being
designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls-Royce Group plc and Honda
Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. 

Infrastructure
is party to collaboration agreements that share the financial results of certain
aircraft and marine engine lines and their related aero-derivatives.
Infrastructure collaboration agreements take the form of both joint ventures and
revenue sharing programs. 

Joint
      ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require
      negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct
      essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket
      support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain
      engine components and retains related intellectual property rights. The
      CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000
      engine line is the product of Engine Alliance,
  LLC. 

Revenue
      sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product
      programs in the aviation and aero-derivative industries. These businesses
      are controlled by Infrastructure, but counterparties have an agreed share
      of revenues as well as development and component production
      responsibilities. At December 31, 2007, such counterparty interests ranged
      from 3% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions are accounted
      for as costs of production. 

On
May 4, 2007, Aviation acquired Smiths Aerospace from Smiths Group plc for
approximately $5.2 billion in cash. Smiths Aerospace is a $2.4 billion (sales)
global aerospace systems and equipment company that provides airborne platform
computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical
actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components and a global
customer services organization. 

We
provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including
sales of replacement parts, for many models of engines, including repair and
overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often
provided under long-term maintenance contracts. 

The
worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is
intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles
are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research
and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused
intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design,
manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies.  Our products
and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards. 

(5) 

Potential
sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological
lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in
technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of
relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military
and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each
other. 

Aviation
Financial Services is a global commercial aviation financial services business
that offers a broad range of financial products to airlines, aircraft operators,
owners, lenders, investors and airport developers. Financial products include
leases, aircraft purchasing and trading, loans, engine/spare parts financing,
fleet planning and financial advisory services. We operate in a highly
competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks,
financial institutions, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is
based on lease rates and terms, as well as aircraft delivery dates, condition
and availability. 

Energy
and Energy Financial Services 

Energy
serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide
with products and services related to energy production, distribution and
management. We offer wind turbines as part of our renewable energy portfolio,
which also includes solar technology. We also sell aircraft engine derivatives
for use as industrial power sources. Gas turbines and generators are used
principally in power plants for generation of electricity and for industrial
cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. We are a leading provider of
Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) technology design and development.
IGCC systems convert coal and other hydrocarbons into synthetic gas that, after
cleanup, is used as the primary fuel for gas turbines in combined-cycle systems.
IGCC systems produce fewer air pollutants compared with traditional pulverized
coal power plants. We sell steam turbines and generators to the electric utility
industry and to private industrial customers for cogeneration applications.
Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both new and installed boiling
water reactors are offered through a joint ventures with Hitachi and Toshiba. We
provide our customers with total solutions to meet their needs through a
complete portfolio of aftermarket services, including equipment upgrades,
long-term maintenance service agreements, repairs, equipment installation,
monitoring and diagnostics, asset management and performance optimization tools,
remote performance testing and Dry Low NOx (DLN) tuning. We continue to invest
in advanced technology development that will provide more value to our customers
and more efficient solutions that comply with today s strict environmental
regulations. 

Worldwide
competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for
power generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and
political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of
regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as
we plan for future development. 

Energy
Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership
financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance to the global
energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries.
During 2007, we acquired a controlling interest in Regency Energy Partners LP, a
midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering, processing,
transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas liquids. We operate in a
highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial
institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing
companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is interest rates and
fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success
is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which
we do business. 

(6) 

Oil
  Gas 

Oil
  Gas supplies technology-based equipment and services for the entire oil
and gas industry  -  from drilling and
completion to production, transportation, refining, processing, petrochemicals
and plastics.  We offer a wide range of surface and subsea drilling
and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms,
compressors, turbines, turboexpanders and industrial power generation equipment.
As a global business, Oil   Gas supports the world s leading national and
international oil companies with latest technology products and services that
drive improvements in productivity, efficiency and environmental
performance. 

On
February 23, 2007, Oil   Gas acquired Vetco Gray, one of the world s leading
suppliers of drilling, completion and production equipment for onshore and
subsea applications in oil and gas fields. The business supplies flow control
valves (known as  Christmas trees ), control systems, wellheads, manifolds,
risers and associated after-market services. 

The
global demand for oil and gas, coupled with a geographic imbalance between
supply and demand, is promoting investment in the exploration, production,
transportation and processing segments of the industry. 

Transportation 

Transportation
provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including
railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve
customers in more than 100 countries. 

Transportation
manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the
Evolution Series ,  the most technologically advanced and most fuel
efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency s Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions
to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our
motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drives systems for
large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling
rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power
generation applications. We also provide gearing technology for critical
applications such as wind turbines. 

Transportation
also provides a portfolio of services offerings, designed to improve fleet
efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive
enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote
monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway
management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize
asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators.
We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability,
optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. 

Water 

Water
offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal water systems
including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals, water
purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid handling equipment for
improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems, including
mobile treatment systems and desalination processes. During 2006, we acquired
ZENON Environmental Inc., a global leader in advanced membranes for water
purification and wastewater treatment. 

For
information about orders and backlog, see page 48 of the 2007 Annual Report to
Shareowners. 

(7) 

Commercial
Finance 

Commercial
Finance (19.8%, 20.3% and 20.0% of consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively) offers a broad range of financial services worldwide. We have
particular mid-market expertise and offer loans, leases and other financial
services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a
variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include
industrial-related facilities and equipment; commercial and residential real
estate; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries,
including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, telecommunications
and healthcare industries. 

During
2007, we made a number of acquisitions, the most significant of which were
Trustreet Properties, Inc.; Diskont und Kredit AG and Disko Leasing GmbH (DISKO)
and ASL Auto Service-Leasing GmbH (ASL), the leasing businesses of KG Allgemeine
Leasing GmbH   Co.; and Sanyo Electric Credit Co., Ltd. 

We
operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial
banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with
manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our
lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is interest rates and
fees, as well as deal structure and terms. Profitability is affected not only by
broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the
availability and cost of capital, but also by successful management of credit
risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency
exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer
and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution
channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring
expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and
productivity. 

Our
headquarters are in Norwalk, Connecticut with offices throughout North America,
South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. 

Capital
Solutions 

Capital
Solutions offers a broad range of financial services worldwide, and has
particular mid-market expertise, offering loans, leases, inventory finance,
transport solutions and other financial services to customers, including
manufacturers, dealers and end-users for a variety of equipment and major
capital assets. These assets include retail facilities; vehicles; corporate
aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction,
transportation, technology, and manufacturing industries. 

Real
Estate 

Real
Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions,
including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and
floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial
real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan
structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings,
apartment buildings, retail facilities, parking facilities and industrial
properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, may be either
senior or subordinated, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by existing
income-producing commercial properties. Certain of our originations of low
loan-to-value loans are conducted for term securitization within one year;
certain of our equity investments, including properties we acquire for
investment, are sold under favorable market conditions. We invest in, and
provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of mortgage loans, limited
partnerships and tax-exempt bonds. 

(8) 

In
the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity
investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as
real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g.,
market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with
certainty the level of future sales or sales prices. Rental income generally
approximates operating expenses, which include depreciation and
amortization. 

GE
Money 

GE
Money (14.5%, 13.0% and 12.5% of consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively) is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and
retailers in over 50 countries around the world. We offer a full range of
innovative financial products to suit customers  needs. These products include
private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases;
mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; corporate travel and
purchasing cards; deposit and other savings products; small and medium
enterprise lending; and credit insurance on a global basis. In September 2007,
we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) and in
December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). 

In
2007, as part of our continued global expansion, we made a number of
acquisitions, the most significant of which was a 33% stake in Bank of Ayudhya
and private label credit card portfolios of Chevron and Lowe s. 

Our
operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations.
Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in
financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types
of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies,
consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers  captive
finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the
basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management,
and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks
from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the
consumer s capacity to repay debt. 

Our
headquarters are currently in Stamford, Connecticut and our operations are
located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia. In February
2008, we announced that we will move our headquarters to London,
England. 

(9) 

Healthcare 

Healthcare
(9.8%, 10.9% and 11.0% of consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively) has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies,
medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug
discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to
predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing
physicians, helping them to tailor individual treatment for individual patients.
Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment:
diagnostic imaging systems including equipment for magnetic resonance (MR),
computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET), nuclear and X-ray
imaging. Clinical systems including patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology,
ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, neonatal and
critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include
diagnostic imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, protein
separation products including chromatography purification systems used in the
manufacturing of bio-pharmaceuticals, and high-throughput systems for
applications in genomics, proteomics and bioassays. During 2006, we acquired IDX
Systems Corporation, a leading healthcare information technology provider and
Biacore International AB, a leading provider of systems for protein interaction
analysis. We sell products and product services to hospitals, medical
facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and to the life science
research market worldwide. Our product services include remote diagnostic and
repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well
as computerized data management and customer productivity services. 

We
compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services
operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high
product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the
key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Throughout
the world, we play a critical role in delivering new technology to improve
patient outcomes and productivity tools to help control healthcare
costs. 

Our
products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including
the FDA, and various laws apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or
other federally-funded healthcare programs. 

For
information about orders and backlog, see page 50 of the 2007 Annual Report to
Shareowners. 

Our
headquarters are in Chalfont St. Giles, United Kingdom and our operations are
located in North America, Europe, Asia, Australia and South
America. 

(10) 

NBC
Universal 

NBC
Universal (8.9%, 10.7% and 10.8% of consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively) is one of the world s leading media and entertainment
companies in the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news
and information to a global audience. Formed in 2004 through the combining of
NBC and Vivendi Universal Entertainment, NBC Universal owns and operates a
valuable portfolio of news and entertainment networks, a premier motion picture
company, significant television production operations, a leading television
stations group and world-renowned theme parks. NBC Universal is 80-percent owned
by General Electric and 20-percent owned by Vivendi S.A. NBC Universal is
principally engaged in the broadcast of network television services to
affiliated television stations within the United States; the production and
distribution of television programs and motion pictures; the operation, under
licenses from the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC), of television
stations; the operation of several cable/satellite television networks around
the world; the operation of theme parks; and investment and programming
activities in digital media and the Internet. The NBC television network is one
of four major U.S. commercial broadcast television networks and serves 230
affiliated stations within the United States. Telemundo is our U.S.
Spanish-language broadcast television network. At December 31, 2007, we owned
and operated 26 television stations. Broadcasting operations of the NBC
television network, the Telemundo network and the company s owned stations are
subject to FCC regulation. Our cable/satellite television network operations
principally include USA Network, Bravo, CNBC, the SciFi Channel, MSNBC, Oxygen,
the Sundance Channel, UniHD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and news, information and
entertainment channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. We have exclusive
U.S. television rights to the 2008, 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games, National
Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2009 and
2012. 

NBC
Universal is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect
our operations. Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television
stations are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and
preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues
in these properties are dependent upon our ability to obtain, renew or
renegotiate long-term programming contracts, including event-based sports
programming and contracts for the distribution of our programming to
cable/satellite operators. Our television and motion pictures production and
distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases
in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological
advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and electronic
sell-through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing
uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized
copying and distribution of our motion pictures and television programming,
increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to
protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use. 

NBC
Universal s headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout
North America, Europe, South America and Asia. 

(11) 

Industrial 

Industrial
(10.3%, 11.7% and 12.5% of consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively) produces and sells products including consumer appliances,
industrial equipment and related services. GE Supply, a network of electrical
supply houses, was also in the Industrial segment until its sale in the third
quarter of 2006. Advanced Materials, a manufacturer of silicone- and
quartz-based materials, was also in the Industrial segment until its sale in the
fourth quarter of 2006. Prior to the sale of our Plastics business in August
2007, we also manufactured and sold plastics and structured products. Plastics
and Advanced Materials results are reported in discontinued operations for all
periods presented. 

Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South
America. 

Consumer
  Industrial 

Consumer
  Industrial sells products that share several characteristics  -  competitive
design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Strong
global competition rarely permits premium pricing, so cost control, including
productivity, is key. Despite pricing pressures on many of our products, we also
invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more
profitable. While some Consumer   Industrial products are primarily directed
to consumer applications (major appliances, for example), and some primarily to
industrial applications (switchgear, for example), others are directed to both
markets (lighting, for example). 

We
sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers,
electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers,
microwave ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for
filtration, softening and heating. Brands are Monogram , GE Profile , GE  and
Hotpoint . 

We
manufacture certain products, and also source finished product and component
parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances
sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed
units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction are
our second major U.S. channel. We offer the largest OEM service organization in
the appliances industry, providing in-home repair, extended service plans and
warranty administration. We also manufacture and sell a variety of lamp products
for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of
incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge, light-emitting
diode, automotive and miniature products. 

Consumer
  Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used
to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and
distribute electrical distribution and control products including transformers,
meters, circuit breakers, panel boards and general purpose controls that are
used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial,
consumer and industrial applications. In addition, we design and manufacture
motors and control systems used in industrial applications primarily for oil and
gas extraction and mining. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered
on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of
commercial lighting systems. 

The
aggregate level of economic activity in markets for such products and services
generally lags overall economic slowdowns as well as subsequent recoveries. In
the United States, industrial markets are undergoing significant structural
changes reflecting, among other factors, increased international competition and
continued commodity cost pressures. 

(12) 

Enterprise
Solutions 

Enterprise
Solutions offers protection and productivity solutions to some of the most
pressing issues that industries face: safe facilities, plant automation, power
control and sensing applications in the operating environment. From home to
industry to national security, our technology covers the full spectrum of
security solutions, including card access systems, high-tech video monitoring,
intrusion and fire detection, real estate and property control, and explosives
and narcotics detection. We design and manufacture equipment and systems that
enable customers to monitor, protect, control and ensure the safety of their
critical applications. These products include precision sensors for temperature,
flow rate, pressure, humidity, gas, infrared and ultrasonic applications;
high-quality handheld and portable field calibrators; equipment for detection of
material defects; stand-alone measurement instrumentation; and systems that
provide the end-to-end solutions necessary to validate or certify vital
commercial and industrial processes. We deliver automation hardware and software
designed to help users reduce costs, increase efficiency and enhance
profitability through a diverse array of capabilities and products, including
controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, computer
numerical controls, operator interfaces, industrial computers, and lasers. We
also provide products and services to protect and optimize assets such as
generators, transmission lines and motors, to ensuring secure wireless data
transmission and uninterruptible power. 

Our
products and services are sold to a diverse worldwide commercial and residential
customer base in the transportation, industrial, pharmaceutical and healthcare
markets. Our business environment is characterized by technological innovation
and market growth. Our competitors include technology-driven suppliers of the
same, as well as other functionally equivalent products and
services. 

Discontinued
Operations 

Discontinued
operations comprised Lake; WMC; Plastics; Advanced Materials; GE Life, our
U.K.-based life insurance operation; the property and casualty insurance and
reinsurance businesses and the European life and health operations of GE
Insurance Solutions Corporation (GE Insurance Solutions); and Genworth
Financial, Inc. (Genworth), our formerly wholly-owned subsidiary that conducted
most of our consumer insurance business, including life and mortgage insurance
operations. 

Geographic
Data 

Geographic
data are reported in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements on
page 98 and 99 of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareowners. 

Additional
financial data about our geographic operations is provided on page 51 and
52 of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareowners. 

Orders
Backlog 

See
pages 48, 50 and 62 of the 2007 Annual Report to Shareowners for
information about our backlog of unfilled orders. 

(13) 

Research
and Development 

Total
expenditures for research and development were $4,075 million, $3,480 million
and $3,235 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Of these amounts,
$3,009 million in 2007 was GE-funded ($2,790 million in 2006 and $2,551 million
in 2005); and $1,066 million in 2007 was funded by customers ($690 million in
2006 and $684 million in 2005), principally the U.S. government.
Infrastructure s Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GE s
research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer
funds. Healthcare and Infrastructure s Energy business also made significant
expenditures funded primarily by GE. 

Environmental
Matters 

Our
operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under
environmental protection laws. 

We
are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous
wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that
responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of
original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site
remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.2 billion in both 2007 and
2006. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average
annual expenditures in the range of $0.2 billion to $0.3 billion over the next
two years. 

The
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ruled in February 2002 that
approximately 150,000 pounds of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) must be dredged
from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York state. On
November 2, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
New York approved a consent decree entered into between GE and the EPA that
represents a comprehensive framework for implementation of the EPA s 2002
decision to dredge PCB-containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. The
dredging will be performed in two phases with an intervening peer review of
performance after phase 1. Under this consent decree, we have committed up
to $0.1 billion to reimburse the EPA for its past and future project oversight
costs and agreed to perform the first phase of dredging. We further committed
that, subject to future agreement with the EPA about completion of dredging
after completion of phase 1 and the peer review, we will be responsible for
further costs, including costs of phase 2 dredging. Our Statement of
Financial Position as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, included
liabilities for the estimated costs of this remediation. 

Employee
Relations 

At
year-end 2007, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed
approximately 327,000 persons, of whom approximately 155,000 were employed in
the United States. For further information about employees, see page 63 of
the 2007 Annual Report to Shareowners. 

Approximately
20,500 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are
represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 125
different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union
locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE-CWA,
The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC.
During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four-year contracts with unions
representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United
States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011. 

(14) 

Approximately
3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United
States are covered by about 160 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a
party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates
and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. 

Executive
Officers 

See
Part III, Item 10 of this 10-K Report for information about Executive Officers
of the Registrant. 

Other 

Because
of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic
dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide
variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely
affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. 

We
own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously
being obtained through our research and development activities as existing
patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are
licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any
single patent or group of related patents. 

Agencies
of the U.S. Government constitute our largest single customer. An analysis of
sales of goods and services as a percentage of revenues follows: 

GE
is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. 

The
Company s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments
to those reports are available, without charge, on our website,
www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are filed electronically with the SEC. Copies are also available,
without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike,
Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or
obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information
regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling
the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this report
are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, or should be viewed as, an
incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available
through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part
of this report. 

(15) 

Item
      1A. 

Risk
      Factors. 

The
following discussion of risk factors contains  forward-looking statements,  as
discussed in Item 1. These risk factors may be important to understanding any
statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following
information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and
Analysis (MD A), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes
incorporated by reference in this report. 

Our
businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our
future results to be different  -  sometimes
materially different  -  than we presently
anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses
encounter can be found in the MD A section of our 2007 Annual Report to
Shareowners and in the business descriptions in Item 1. of this Form 10-K.
Below, we have described certain important strategic risks. Our reactions to
material future developments as well as our competitors  reactions to those
developments will determine our future results. 

Our
global growth is subject to a number of economic and political
risks 

We
conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. Global economic
developments affect businesses such as ours in many ways. Operations are subject
to the effects of global competition. Our global business is affected by local
economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility.
Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our
supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location.
While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial
instruments and some are insurable, such attempts to mitigate these risks are
costly and not always successful. 

Our
credit ratings are important to our cost of capital 

The
major debt agencies routinely evaluate our debt and have given their highest
debt ratings to us. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which
include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies
and  timeliness of financial reporting. One of our strategic
objectives is to maintain our  Triple A  ratings as they serve to lower our
borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders. Failure to
maintain our Triple A debt ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and
related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital
markets. 

The
success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic
acquisitions and dispositions 

With
respect to acquisitions and mergers, we may not be able to identify suitable
candidates at terms acceptable to us, or may not achieve expected returns and
other benefits as a result of integration challenges, such as personnel and
technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and
businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to
sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or
alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could
delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or we may dispose of a
business at a price or on terms, which are less than we had anticipated. In
addition, there is a risk that we sell a business whose subsequent performance
exceeds our expectations, in which case our decision would have potentially
sacrificed enterprise value. Correspondingly, we may be too optimistic about a
particular business s prospects, in which case we may be unable to find a buyer
at a price acceptable to us and therefore may have potentially sacrificed
enterprise value. 

(16) 

We
are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations 

Our
businesses are subject to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and foreign
laws, regulations and policies. Changes to laws or regulations may even require
us to modify our business objectives if existing practices become more
restricted, subject to escalating costs or prohibited outright. Particular risks
include regulatory risks arising from local laws, such as laws that reduce the
allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, from local liquidity
regulations that may increase the risks of not being able to retrieve assets,
and changes to tax law that may affect our return on investments. For example,
GE s effective tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and
indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S.
rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S.
tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial
services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a
dividend. This provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits
U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with foreign banks
and other foreign financial institutions in global markets. This provision,
which is scheduled to expire at the end of 2008, has been scheduled to expire on
four previous occasions, and each time it has been extended by Congress. If this
provision is not extended, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial
services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more
difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets.
Our businesses and the industries in which we operate are also at times being
reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions,
fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and
damages. 

Changes
in the real estate markets are highly uncertain 

We
provide financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various
types of properties. We also consider opportunities to buy and sell properties
which may result in significant outlays or proceeds of cash, either individually
or in the aggregate. The profitability of real estate investments is largely
dependent upon the specific geographic market in which they are located and the
perceived value of that market at the time of sale. We may have difficulty
optimizing that mix and such activity may vary significantly from one year to
the next. 

Item 1B.  

Unresolved
      Staff Comments. 

Not
applicable. 

Item
      2. 

Properties. 

Manufacturing
operations are carried out at approximately 300 manufacturing plants located in
40 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at 261 manufacturing plants
located in 40 other countries. 

Item
      3. 

Legal
      Proceedings. 

As
previously reported, in January 2005 the staff of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) informed us that it had commenced an investigation and
requested certain documents and information with respect to the use of hedge
accounting for derivatives by us and GE Capital. In August 2005 the SEC staff
advised us that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation in the
matter. The SEC staff has taken testimony in this matter and has requested
information about other GE accounting policies and practices, including items
related to revenue recognition. 

(17) 

In
connection with the SEC s investigation, we are conducting an internal review of
revenue recognition matters. Our review has been thorough and extensive,
continuing for more than a year, and has been conducted using substantial
internal and external resources. These resources have included extensive
redeployment of our 430 person audit staff to focus on this review; substantial
time and resources of our controllership and finance organizations and our
internal legal organization; accounting and expert support from our auditor,
KPMG; and extensive resources from outside legal counsel and accounting
expertise, who have advised us and our audit committee. We have regularly
reported results of the review to the SEC staff as conclusions have been reached
and in cases where errors have been identified, we have publicly disclosed them
in our filings with the SEC. 

In
a Form 8-K filed January 18, 2008, we reported that we had determined that we
made an error in the manner in which we changed our accounting for profits on
certain aftermarket spare parts. As we reported, under long-term product
services agreements, we provide repair and maintenance for installed products,
including spare parts. We recognize revenue and profits over the contract period
in proportion to our contract costs. An element of our contract costs is the
cost of spare parts. Before January 1, 2002, our Aviation business accounted for
the profits on spare parts installed pursuant to long-term product service
agreements either in its spare parts unit or in its revenue recognition model
for commercial engines. Effective January 1, 2002, with the concurrence of KPMG,
we changed our accounting for spare parts in two ways that largely offset: to
exclude all spare parts from the model for engine sales and to include margin in
long-term services agreements to the extent spare parts are associated with such
agreements. 

In
making this change, we changed our estimate of the unperformed portions of
long-term product services agreements to use our cost instead of catalogue list
price. We have determined that because we did not also re-compute our pre-2002
spare parts costs on the same basis, we overestimated the percentage of
completion of affected agreements and underestimated the related contract profit
rates, an error that resulted in accelerating revenues and profits attributable
to such agreements in 2002 and understating revenues and profits in some future
periods. Similar adjustments in the accounting method for estimating the cost of
spare parts installed pursuant to long-term services agreements were made by
Aviation in 2003 with respect to spare parts manufactured by a joint venture
partner and in our Energy business in 2006. We also reported that we had
determined that for periods prior to 2004, we made an error in our application
and description of appropriate revenue measurement principles in certain
Infrastructure businesses. Our associated routines and controls failed to
prevent or detect these errors. 

We
and our audit committee, with the assistance of the committee s independent
counsel, have evaluated the circumstances surrounding and the effect on our
previously reported financial statements of the items reported in our January
18, 2008 Form 8-K, and have determined that the adjustments relating to these
items, both individually and together with the adjustments for the errors
identified in our Form 10-Qs filed on July 27, 2007 and November 2, 2007, are
not material to our financial statements and have determined that restatement of
our prior period financial statements is not required. We have included the
adjustments for these items in prior period financial information reported in
this Form 10-K. 

We
also have considered these matters in context of our review of our internal
control over financial reporting and have concluded that the internal control
deficiencies implicated by the items identified above constitute significant
deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, but do not
(individually or in the aggregate with other identified deficiencies) constitute
a material weakness in the Company s internal control. 

(18) 

We
and our audit committee take these internal control matters very seriously and
are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes and
procedures. In response to these matters, we and our audit committee have been
actively engaged in the planning and implementation of remediation efforts to
address the identified deficiencies in our internal controls with respect to our
revenue recognition policies and procedures, and to enhance our overall control
environment.  We have already undertaken, and are continuing to
implement, a number of remedial actions and internal control
enhancements: 

Strengthening
      our expertise and technical controllership resources in corporate
      accounting and our internal audit staff devoted to complex accounting
      matters; 

Implementing
      improved procedures for our corporate accounting and internal audit staff
      for review of accounting for unusual
  transactions; 

Enhancing
      our operational controllership resources, structure and processes to
      oversee GE businesses to better ensure controllership policies are fully
      executed; 

Enhancing
      and clarifying our global accounting policies and procedures for revenue
      recognition and our related training programs and
      communication; 

Improving
      the processes and procedures around documentation of critical accounting
      areas and judgments and accounting changes, and enhancing communication of
      these matters to senior management and our audit
  committee; 

Continuing
      to stress leadership communication about integrity, accuracy and
      transparency; and 

Evaluating
      responsibility, where errors have occurred, with respect to the employees
      involved in the transactions related to such errors and making appropriate
      personnel determinations based on such
  evaluations. 

We
continue to cooperate with the ongoing SEC investigation and to discuss the
investigation and issues arising in that investigation and our internal review
with the SEC staff with a goal of completing our review and resolving these
matters as soon as practicable. Our senior management and audit committee are
monitoring the review closely with the assistance of outside counsel and
accounting experts.  We and our audit committee are committed to
addressing issues that arise and to providing transparent disclosure to our
investors concerning these matters. 

The Antitrust
Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the SEC are continuing to
conduct an industry-wide investigation of marketing and sales of guaranteed
investment contracts, and other financial instruments, to municipalities. In
connection with this investigation, two subsidiaries of GE Capital received
subpoenas in 2006: GE Funding CMS (Trinity Funding Co.) received a subpoena from
the DOJ requesting documents and GE Funding Capital Market Services, Inc.
received a subpoena from the SEC that requests similar information about Trinity
Funding Company, LLC. The Company is cooperating fully with the SEC and DOJ in
this matter. 

(19) 

As
previously reported, in April 2006 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) informed the company that it was contemplating seeking $990,000 in
penalties for violations of the Clean Air Act at its recently sold Mt. Vernon,
Indiana Plastics facility. EPA has asserted that the company failed to
adequately control emissions from valves and inlet pipes in an underground
piping system. We disagree with those assertions and EPA has already modified
its position to reduce the number of potential violations based on conversations
with GE. The company has engaged in settlement discussions with the Agency over
both the nature and severity of the alleged violations. 

Item
      4. 

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders. 

Not
applicable. 

Part
      II 

Item
      5. 

Market
      for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
      Purchases of Equity Securities. 

With
respect to  Market Information,  in the United States, GE common stock is listed
on the New York Stock Exchange (its principal market) and on the Boston Stock
Exchange. GE common stock also is listed on the London Stock Exchange and on
Euronext Paris. Trading prices, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange,
Inc., Composite Transactions Tape, and dividend information follow: 

As
of January 31, 2008, there were about 607,000 shareowner accounts of
record. 

(20) 

(a) 

Information
      is presented on a fiscal calendar basis, consistent with our quarterly
      financial reporting. 

(b) 

This
      category includes 1,433 thousand shares repurchased from our various
      benefit plans, primarily the GE Savings and Security Program (the
      S SP). Through the S SP, a defined contribution plan with 401(k)
      features, we repurchase shares resulting from changes in investment
      options by plan participants. 

(c) 

This
      balance represents the number of shares that were repurchased through the
      2004 GE Share Repurchase Program as modified by the GE Board in November
      2005 and July 2007 (the 2004 Program) under which we were authorized to
      repurchase up to $27 billion of Company common stock through 2008. This
      program was completed as of December 31, 2007. The GE Board approved a new
      three-year, $15 billion program in December 2007 (the 2007 Program), of
      which $14.9 billion remains. The 2004 Program and 2007 Program,
      collectively referred to as the Programs are flexible and shares are
      acquired with a combination of borrowings and free cash flow from the
      public markets and other sources, including GE Stock Direct, a stock
      purchase plan that is available to the public. As major acquisitions or
      other circumstances warrant, we modify the frequency and amount of share
      repurchases under the Programs. 

(d) 

This
      amount includes 2,900 thousand shares from the new program. 

Item
      6. 

Selected
      Financial Data. 

Incorporated
by reference to data for revenues; net earnings; net earnings per share (basic
and diluted); dividends declared; dividends declared per share; long-term
borrowings; and total assets appearing on page 63 of the Annual Report to
Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. 

Item
      7. 

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations. 

Incorporated
by reference to pages 42-62 and 107-111 of the Annual Report to Shareowners
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. 

Item
      7A.   

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk. 

Incorporated
by reference to pages 55 and 56 of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. 

Item
      8. 

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data. 

See
index under Item 15. 

Item
      9. 

Changes
      in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure. 

Not
applicable. 

(21) 

Item
      9A. 

Controls
      and Procedures. 

Under
the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we
evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting and concluded that (i) our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2007, and (ii) except as described
in  Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings,  no change in internal control over
financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2007, that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, such
internal control over financial reporting. 

Management s
annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of our
independent registered public accounting firm are incorporated by reference to
pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2007. 

Item
      9B. 

Other
      Information. 

Not
applicable. 

Part
      III 

Item
      10. 

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance. 

Executive
Officers of the Registrant (As of February 20, 2008) 

Name 

Position 

Age 

Date
      assumed 

                  Executive 

                  Officer
      Position 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

52 

January
      1997 

Philip
      D. Ameen 

Vice
      President and Comptroller 

59 

April
      1994 

Kathryn
      A. Cassidy 

Vice
      President and GE Treasurer 

53 

March
      2003 

Pamela
      Daley 

Senior
      Vice President, Corporate Business Development 

55 

July
      2004 

Brackett
      B. Denniston III 

Senior
      Vice President and General Counsel 

60 

February
      2004 

Joseph
      M. Hogan 

Senior
      Vice President, GE Healthcare 

50 

November
      2000 

John
      F. Lynch 

Senior
      Vice President, Human Resources 

55 

January
      2007 

Michael
      A. Neal 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company; Chairman, GE Capital Services,
      Inc. 

54 

September
      2002 

John
      G. Rice 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company; President   CEO, GE
      Infrastructure 

51 

September
      1997 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company and Chief Financial
      Officer 

49 

January
      1999 

Lloyd
      G. Trotter 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company; President   CEO, GE
      Industrial 

62 

November
      1992 

Robert
      C. Wright 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company 

64 

July
      2000 

(22) 

All
Executive Officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term
which continues until the Board meeting immediately preceding the next annual
statutory meeting of shareowners, and thereafter are elected for one-year terms
or until their successors have been elected. All Executive Officers have been
executives of GE for the last five years. 

The
remaining information called for by this item is incorporated by reference to
 Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance,   Board of Directors and
Committees  and  Additional Information  -  Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for
our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held April 23, 2008,
which will be filed within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year ended December
31, 2007 (the 2008 Proxy Statement). 

Item
      11. 

Executive
      Compensation. 

Incorporated
by reference to  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee
Report,   Summary Compensation Table,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards, 
 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,   Option Exercises and Stock
Vested,   Pension Benefits,   Nonqualified Deferred Compensation,   Potential
Payments Upon Termination  and  Non-management Directors  Compensation  in the
2008 Proxy Statement. 

Item
      12. 

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
      Shareholder Matters. 

Incorporated
by reference to  Information on Stock Ownership  in the 2008 Proxy
Statement. 

The
remaining information called for by this item relating to  Securities Authorized
for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans  is incorporated by reference to
note 23 on pages 94-96 of the Annual Report to Shareowners for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2007. 

Item
      13. 

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence. 

Incorporated
by reference to  Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  in the
2008 Proxy Statement. 

Item
      14. 

Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services. 

Incorporated
by reference to  Independent Auditor  in the 2008 Proxy Statement. 

(23) 

Part
      IV 

Item
      15. 

Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules. 

(a)1.  

Financial
      statements applicable to General Electric Company and consolidated
      affiliates are contained on the page(s) indicated in the GE Annual Report
      to Shareowners for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, a copy of
      which is attached as Exhibit 13. 

(a)2. 

The
      schedules listed in Reg. 210.5-04 have been omitted because they are not
      applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated
      financial statements or notes thereto. 

(a)3. 

Exhibit
      Index 

3(a) 

The
      Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of General Electric Company
      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3.1) of General Electric s Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated April 25, 2007 (Commission file number
      001-00035)). 

(24) 

(25) 

4(h) 

Form
      of Global Medium-Term Note, Series A, Floating Rate Registered Note
      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(n) to the GECC s Registration
      Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-100527 (Commission file number
      1-6461)). 

4(i) 

Form
      of LIBOR Floating Rate Note (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of
      General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 29, 2003
      (Commission file number 001-00035)). 

4(j) 

Eighth
      Amended and Restated Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement among GECC, GE
      Capital Australia Funding Pty Ltd., GE Capital European Funding, GE
      Capital Canada Funding Company, GE Capital UK Funding and JPMorgan Chase
      Bank, N.A., and J.P. Morgan Bank Luxembourg, S.A., dated as of May 12,
      2006 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(f) to General Electric
      Capital Services, Inc. s Form 10-K Report for the fiscal year ended
      December 31, 2006). 

4(k) 

Agreement
      to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request a copy
      of instruments defining the rights of holders of certain long-term debt of
      the registrant and consolidated subsidiaries.* 

4(l) 

Indenture
      dated December 1, 2005, between General Electric and The Bank of New York
      (as successor to JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.) (Incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 4(a) of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
      December 9, 2005 (Commission file number 001-00035)). 

4(m) 

Form
      of LIBOR Floating Rate Note due 2008 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      4(b) of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 9,
      2005 (Commission file number 001-00035)). 

4(n) 

Form
      of 5.250% Note due 2017 (Incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 4(b) of
      General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2007
      (Commission file number 001-00035)). 

4(o) 

Letter
      from the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of General
      Electric to GECC dated September 15, 2006, with respect to returning
      dividends, distributions or other payments to GECC in certain
      circumstances described in the Indenture for Subordinated Debentures dated
      September 1, 2006, between GECC and the Bank of New York (as successor to
      JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A.) (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to
      GECC s Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on
      Form S-3, File No. 333-132807). 

(26) 

(27) 

(28) 

(q) 

Form
      of Agreement for Long Term Performance Award Grants to Executive Officers
      under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan
      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of General Electric s Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file number
      001-0035)). 

(r) 

Form
      of Agreement for Performance Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers under
      the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan (Incorporated
      by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of General Electric s Current Report on Form
      8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file
      number 001-0035)). 

(11) 

Statement
      re Computation of Per Share Earnings.** 

(12) 

Computation
      of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.* 

(13) 

GE s
      2007 Annual Report to Shareowners, certain sections of which have been
      incorporated herein by reference.* 

(21) 

Subsidiaries
      of Registrant.* 

(23) 

Consent
      of independent registered public accounting firm.* 

(24) 

Power
      of Attorney.* 

31(a) 

Certification
      Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934, as amended. * 

31(b) 

Certification
      Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934, as amended.* 

(32) 

Certification
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.* 

99(a)  

Income
      Maintenance Agreement, dated March 28, 1991, between the Registrant and
      General Electric Capital Corporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      99(h) to General Electric Capital Corporation s Registration Statement on
      Form S-3 (File No. 333-100527)). 

(29) 

99(b)  

Undertaking
      for Inclusion in Registration Statements on Form S-8 of General Electric
      Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99(b) to General Electric
      Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 001-00035) for the
      fiscal year ended December 31, 1992). 

* 

Filed
      electronically herewith. 

**  

Information
      required to be presented in Exhibit 11 is provided in note 8 to the 2007
      Annual Report to Shareowners in accordance with the provisions of FASB
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128,  Earnings per
      Share . 

(30) 

Signatures  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2007, to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, and in
the capacities indicated, thereunto duly authorized in the Town of Fairfield and
State of Connecticut on the 20 th  day of February
2008. 

General
      Electric Company 

                  (Registrant) 

By 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

                  Vice
      Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 

                  (Principal
      Financial Officer) 

(31) 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Signer  

Title  

Date  

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Principal
      Financial Officer 

February
      20, 2008 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

                  Vice
      Chairman and 

                  Chief
      Financial Officer 

/s/
      Philip D. Ameen 

Principal
      Accounting Officer 

February
      20, 2008 

Philip
      D. Ameen 

                  Vice
      President and Comptroller 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt* 

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors 

                  (Principal
      Executive Officer) 

James
      I. Cash, Jr.* 

Director 

William
      M. Castell* 

Director 

Ann
      M. Fudge* 

Director 

Claudio
      X. Gonzalez* 

Director 

Susan
      Hockfield* 

Director 

Andrea
      Jung* 

Director 

Alan
      G. Lafley* 

Director 

Robert
      W. Lane* 

Director 

Ralph
      S. Larsen* 

Director 

Rochelle
      B. Lazarus* 

Director 

Sam
      Nunn* 

Director 

Roger
      S. Penske* 

Director 

Robert
      J. Swieringa* 

Director 

Douglas
      A. Warner III* 

Director 

Robert
      C. Wright* 

Director 

A
      majority of the Board of Directors 

*By 

/s/
      Michael R. McAlevey 

Michael
      R. McAlevey 

                  Attorney-in-fact 

                  February
      20, 2008 

(32) 

<EX-4.K>
 2
 ex4.htm

ex4.htm 

Exhibit
4(k) 

Kathryn
      A. Cassidy 

                Vice
      President and GE Treasurer 

General
      Electric Company 

                3135
      Easton Turnpike 

                Fairfield,
      CT 06828 

Securities
and Exchange Commission 

        100
F Street, NE 

        Washington,
DC 20549 

February
20, 2008 

Dear
Sirs: 

Neither
General Electric Company (the  Company ) nor any of its consolidated
subsidiaries has outstanding any instrument with respect to its long-term debt,
other than those filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, under
which the total amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total assets
of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In accordance
with paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of
Regulation S-K (17 CFR Sec. 229.601), the Company
hereby agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon
request, a copy of each instrument that defines the rights of holders of such
long term debt not filed or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to the
Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2007. 

Very
truly yours, 

GENERAL
ELECTRIC COMPANY 

/s/
      Kathryn A. Cassidy 

Kathryn
      A. Cassidy 

Vice
      President and GE Treasurer 

</EX-4.K>

<EX-12>
 3
 ex12.htm

ex12.htm 

Exhibit
12 

General
Electric Company 

        Ratio
of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

(a) 

Earnings
      before income taxes, minority interest, discontinued operations and
      cumulative effect of accounting changes. 

(b) 

Included
      interest on tax deficiencies. 

(c) 

Considered
      to be representative of interest factor in rental
  expense. 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 4
 ex13.htm

ex13.htm 

Exhibit
13 

Financial
Section 

Contents 

40 

Management s
      Discussion of Financial Responsibility 

We
      begin with a letter from our Chief Executive and Financial Officers
      discussing our unyielding commitment to rigorous oversight,
      controllership, informative disclosure and visibility to
      investors. 

40 

Management s
      Annual Report on Internal 

                  Control
      Over Financial Reporting 

In
      this report our Chief Executive and Financial Officers provide their
      assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
      reporting. 

41 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public 

                  Accounting
      Firm 

Our
      independent auditors, KPMG LLP, express their opinions on our financial
      statements and our internal control over financial reporting. 

42 

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis (MD A) 

42 

Operations 

We
      begin the Operations section of MD A with an overview of our earnings,
      including a perspective on how the global economic environment has
      affected our businesses over the last three years. We then discuss various
      key operating results for GE industrial (GE) and financial services
      (GECS). Because of the fundamental differences in these businesses,
      reviewing certain information separately for GE and GECS offers a more
      meaningful analysis. Next we provide a description of our global risk
      management process. Our discussion of segment results includes
      quantitative and qualitative disclosure about the factors affecting
      segment revenues and profits, and the effects of recent acquisitions,
      dispositions and significant transactions. We conclude the Operations
      section with an overview of our operations from a geographic perspective
      and a discussion of environmental matters. 

53 

Financial
      Resources and Liquidity 

In
      the Financial Resources and Liquidity section of MD A, we provide an
      overview of the major factors that affected our consolidated financial
      position and insight into the liquidity and cash flow activities of GE and
      GECS. 

58 

Critical
      Accounting Estimates 

Critical
      Accounting Estimates are necessary for us to prepare our financial
      statements. In this section, we discuss what these estimates are, why they
      are important, how they are developed and uncertainties to which they are
      subject. 

61 

Other
      Information 

We
      conclude MD A with a brief discussion of new accounting standards that
      will become effective for us beginning in 2008. 

62 

Selected
      Financial Data 

Selected
      Financial Data provides five years of financial information for GE and
      GECS. This table includes commonly used metrics that facilitate comparison
      with other companies. 

64 

Audited
      Financial Statements and Notes 

64 

Statement
      of Earnings 

64 

Consolidated
      Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity 

66 

Statement
      of Financial Position 

68 

Statement
      of Cash Flows 

70 

Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements 

107 

Supplemental
      Information 

We
      provide Supplemental Information to reconcile certain  non-GAAP financial
      measures  referred to in our report to the most closely associated GAAP
      financial measures. We also provide information about our stock
      performance over the last five years. 

112 

Glossary 

For
      your convenience, we also provide a Glossary of key terms used in our
      financial statements. 

We
      also present our financial information electronically at  www.ge.com/investor . 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 39 

Management s
Discussion of Financial Responsibility 

We
believe that great companies are built on a foundation of reliable financial
information and compliance with the spirit and letter of the law. For GE, that
foundation includes rigorous management oversight of, and an unyielding
dedication to, controllership. The financial disclosures in this report are one
product of our commitment to high quality financial reporting. In addition, we
make every effort to adopt appropriate accounting policies, we devote our full
resources to ensuring that those policies are applied properly and consistently
and we do our best to fairly present our financial results in a manner that is
complete and understandable. 

Rigorous
Management Oversight 

Members
of our corporate leadership team review each of our businesses routinely on
matters that range from overall strategy and financial performance to staffing
and compliance. Our business leaders monitor financial and operating systems,
enabling us to identify potential opportunities and concerns at an early stage
and positioning us to respond rapidly. Our Board of Directors oversees
management s business conduct, and our Audit Committee, which consists entirely
of independent directors, oversees our internal control over financial
reporting. We continually examine our governance practices in an effort to
enhance investor trust and improve the Board s overall effectiveness. The Board
and its committees annually conduct a performance self-evaluation and recommend
improvements. Our Presiding Director led three meetings of non-management
directors this year, helping us sharpen our full Board meetings to better cover
significant topics. Compensation policies for our executives are aligned with
the long-term interests of GE investors. 

Dedication
to Controllership 

In
the last year we identified and disclosed several errors in our previously
reported financial results and several deficiencies in our internal control over
financial reporting. We and our Audit Committee take these matters very
seriously. We have taken steps to remediate these deficiencies and further
strengthen our controllership organization, processes and procedures. We strive
to maintain a dynamic system of internal controls and procedures  -  including internal
control over financial reporting  -  designed to ensure
reliable financial record-keeping, transparent financial reporting and
disclosure, and protection of physical and intellectual property. We recruit,
develop and retain a world-class financial team. Our internal audit function,
including members of our Corporate Audit Staff, conducts thousands of financial,
compliance and process improvement audits each year. Our Audit Committee
oversees the scope and evaluates the overall results of these audits, and
members of that Committee regularly attend GE Capital Services Board of
Directors, Corporate Audit Staff and Controllership Council meetings. Our global
integrity policies  -   The Spirit  
The Letter   - 
require compliance with law and policy, and pertain to such vital issues as
upholding financial integrity and avoiding conflicts of interest. These
integrity policies are available in 31 languages, and are provided to all of our
employees, holding each of them accountable for compliance. Our strong
compliance culture reinforces these efforts by requiring employees to raise any
compliance concerns and by prohibiting retribution for doing so. To facilitate
open and candid communication, we have designated ombudspersons throughout the
Company to act as independent resources for reporting integrity or compliance
concerns. We hold our directors, consultants, agents and independent contractors
to the same integrity standards. 

Informative
Disclosure and Visibility to Investors 

We
are keenly aware of the importance of full and open presentation of our
financial position and operating results and rely for this purpose on our
disclosure controls and procedures, including our Disclosure Committee, which
comprises senior executives with detailed knowledge of our businesses and the
related needs of our investors. We ask this committee to review our compliance
with accounting and disclosure requirements, to evaluate the fairness of our
financial and non-financial disclosures, and to report their findings to us. We
further ensure strong disclosure by holding more than 350 analyst and investor
meetings annually. 

Conclusion 

We
welcome the strong oversight of our financial reporting activities by our
independent registered public accounting firm, KPMG LLP, engaged by and
reporting directly to the Audit Committee. U.S. legislation requires management
to report on internal control over financial reporting and for auditors to
render an opinion on such controls. Our report follows and the KPMG LLP report
for 2007 appears on the following page. 

We
present our financial information proudly, with the expectation that those who
use it will understand our Company, recognize our commitment to performance with
integrity, and share our confidence in GE s future. 

Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for the Company. With our participation, an evaluation of
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting was conducted
as of December 31, 2007, based on the framework and criteria established in
 Internal Control   -   Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. 

Based
on this evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007. 

Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our
internal control over financial reporting. Their report appears on the following
page. 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Chairman
      of the Board and 

                  Chief
      Executive Officer 

Vice
      Chairman and 

                  Chief
      Financial Officer 

February
      20, 2008 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 40 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To
Shareowners and Board of Directors of General Electric Company: 

We
have audited the accompanying statement of financial position of General
Electric Company and consolidated affiliates ( GE ) as of December 31, 2007
and 2006, and the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners  equity
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2007. We also have audited GE s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established
in  Internal Control
  -   Integrated Framework  issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
( COSO ). GE management is responsible for these consolidated financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and an opinion on GE s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements appearing on pages 64, 66,
68, 70-106 and the Summary of Operating Segments table on page 47 present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of GE as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. Also, in our opinion, GE maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in  Internal Control  -  Integrated Framework  issued
by COSO. 

As
discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, GE, in 2007,
changed its methods for accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and for a
change or projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes
generated by leveraged lease transactions, and, in 2006, changed its methods of
accounting for pension and other postretirement benefits and for share-based
compensation. 

Our
audits of GE s consolidated financial statements were made for the purpose of
forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
The accompanying consolidating information appearing on pages 65, 67 and 69 is
presented for purposes of additional analysis of the consolidated financial
statements rather than to present the financial position, results of operations
and cash flows of the individual entities. The consolidating information has
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the
consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all
material respects in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole. 

/s/
KPMG LLP 

Stamford,
Connecticut 

February
20, 2008 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 41 

Management s
Discussion and Analysis 

Operations 

Our
consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing, services
and media businesses of General Electric Company (GE) with the financial
services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or
financial services). 

In
the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information
derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our
financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered  non-GAAP
financial measures  under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
rules. For such measures, we have provided supplemental explanations and
reconciliations in the Supplemental Information section. 

We
present Management s Discussion of Operations in five parts: Overview of Our
Earnings from 2005 through 2007, Global Risk Management, Segment Operations,
Geographic Operations and Environmental Matters. Unless otherwise indicated, we
refer to captions such as revenues and earnings from continuing operations
simply as  revenues  and  earnings  throughout this Management s Discussion and
Analysis. Similarly, discussion of other matters in our consolidated financial
statements relates to continuing operations unless otherwise
indicated. 

Overview
of Our Earnings from 2005 through 2007 

Our
results for the last three years reflect our strategy to strengthen our position
as a worldwide growth company operating in diverse industries in which we
maintain strong market-leader positions. During these three years, we increased
revenues through organic growth (averaging 9% per year) and reallocated
resources from nonstrategic operations to businesses that provide higher
returns. As a result, over the last three years our revenues grew 26% and
earnings, 29%. Orders for products and services also increased. Emerging markets
continued to provide us opportunities to grow as evidenced by a 42% increase in
global revenues during this period. We also experienced a weaker U.S. dollar and
rising energy cost during this period.  

Our
debt continues to receive the highest ratings of the major rating agencies and
has allowed us to consistently fund our operations in an efficient manner even
through this difficult credit environment. 

The
information that follows will show how our global diversification and risk
management strategies have helped us to grow revenues and earnings to record
levels. We also believe that the disposition of our less strategic businesses,
our restructuring actions and our investment in businesses with strong growth
potential position us well for the future. 

Of
our six segments, Infrastructure (32% and 36% of consolidated three-year
revenues and total segment profit, respectively) was one of the most
significantly affected by the recent economic environment, growing revenue and
profit about 40% over the three-year period. We continued to invest in
market-leading technology and services at Aviation, Energy, Oil   Gas,
Transportation and Water. At December 31, 2007, we owned 1,479 commercial
aircraft, of which all but five were on lease, and we held $20.0 billion (list
price) of multiple-year orders for various Boeing, Airbus and other aircraft,
including 75 aircraft ($5.1 billion list price) scheduled for delivery in 2008,
all under agreement to commence operations with commercial airline customers.
Product services and sales of our Evolution Series locomotives continue to be
strong. 

Commercial
Finance (20% and 21% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment
profit, respectively) is a large, profitable growth business in which we
continue to invest with confidence. In a competitive environment, this business
grew earnings by $0.7 billion and $0.8 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively,
and has delivered strong results through solid core growth, disciplined risk
management and successful acquisitions. The most significant acquisitions
affecting Commercial Finance results in 2007 were the custom fleet business of
National Australia Bank Ltd.; Sanyo Electric Credit Co., Ltd.; and Diskont und
Kredit AG and Disko Leasing GmbH (DISKO) and ASL Auto Service-Leasing GmbH
(ASL), the leasing businesses of KG Allgemeine Leasing GmbH   Co. These
acquisitions collectively contributed $1.4 billion and $0.2 billion to 2007
revenues and net earnings, respectively. During the first half of 2007,
Commercial Finance faced margin compression as a decline in market risk premiums
for new financing opportunities outpaced the decline in cost of our investment
grade debt. In the second half of 2007, Commercial Finance was able to
capitalize on markets in transition, using its size, liquidity and financial
flexibility for opportunistic originations, taking advantage of the liquidity
conditions with which certain competitors contended. Commercial Finance is well
positioned for growth in 2008 and beyond. 

GE
Money (13% of both consolidated three-year revenues and total segment profit)
continues to succeed despite the slowing U.S. economy, tightening credit
conditions and limited liquidity. GE Money grew earnings by $1.0 billion and
$0.7 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and has delivered strong results
through solid core growth, disciplined risk management and 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 42 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

successful
acquisitions. In mid-2007, as a result of pressures in the U.S. subprime
mortgage industry, GE Money decided to sell its U.S. mortgage business (WMC).
This liquidity-challenged environment in which GE Money operates continues to
cause issues for some of its U.S. customers, and U.S. delinquencies increased in
2007. In response, GE Money tightened underwriting standards related to the U.S.
consumer. GE Money will continue its process of regularly reviewing and
adjusting reserve levels in response to when it is probable that losses have
been incurred in the portfolio. 

We
have achieved strong growth in Healthcare (11% and 12% of consolidated
three-year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) with a combination
of organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Healthcare realized benefits from
the acquisitions of IDX Systems Corporation in 2006 and Amersham plc (Amersham)
in 2004, expanding the breadth of our product and service offerings to the
healthcare industry. These increases were adversely affected by the effects of
the Deficit Reduction Act on U.S. equipment sales. In addition, lower sales of
surgical imaging equipment resulted from a regulatory suspension on shipments at
one of our facilities. We expect to begin shipping these products in early 2008.
We believe that Healthcare is positioned well for continued strong
growth. 

NBC
Universal (10% and 12% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment
profit, respectively) has developed into a diversified world-class media
company. While the technology and business model for the entertainment media
industry continues to evolve, in 2007, we made significant progress in our
turnaround efforts and believe that NBC Universal is well positioned to compete
in this challenging environment. 

Industrial
(11% and 6% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment profit,
respectively) is particularly sensitive to economic conditions. Despite pressure
from a weaker housing market, the Consumer   Industrial business continued
to grow through product innovation and its focus on high-end appliances. During
2007, Consumer   Industrial launched a comprehensive, multi-year
restructuring plan focused on reducing manufacturing capacity as it moved to a
 design, source and sell  model and to make the business more cost competitive
by transferring work to lower-cost countries. Enterprise Solutions offers
protection and productivity solutions such as safe facilities, plant automation,
power control and sensing applications. 

Overall,
acquisitions contributed $7.7 billion, $3.9 billion and $9.3 billion to
consolidated revenues in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our consolidated
earnings included approximately $0.5 billion in both 2007 and 2006, and $0.9
billion in 2005, from acquired businesses. We integrate acquisitions as quickly
as possible. Only revenues and earnings from the date we complete the
acquisition through the end of the fourth following quarter are attributed to
such businesses. Dispositions also affected our ongoing results through lower
revenues of $3.6 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.9 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. This resulted in higher earnings of $0.4 billion in 2007 and $0.1
billion in 2006 and lower earnings of $0.1 billion in 2005. 

Significant
matters relating to our Statement of Earnings are explained below. 

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS.  In
December 2007, we completed the exit of WMC as a result of continued pressures
in the U.S. subprime mortgage industry. In September 2007, we committed to a
plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business (Lake). We made the decision to
sell this business upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese
regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not
permit us to earn an acceptable return. We are actively pursuing a buyer and
expect to complete the sale of this business by the end of the third quarter of
2008. Both of these businesses were previously reported in the GE Money
segment. 

In
August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business, which was
previously reported in the Industrial segment. We sold this business because of
its cyclicality, rising costs of natural gas and raw materials, and the decision
to redeploy capital resources into higher-growth businesses. 

In
2006, we substantially completed our planned exit of the insurance businesses
through the sale of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance
businesses and the European life and health operations of GE Insurance Solutions
Corporation (GE Insurance Solutions) and the sale of GE Life, our U.K.-based
life insurance operation, to Swiss Reinsurance Company (Swiss Re), and the sale,
through a secondary public offering, of our remaining 18% investment in Genworth
Financial, Inc. (Genworth), our formerly wholly-owned subsidiary that conducted
most of our consumer insurance business, including life and mortgage insurance
operations. Also during 2006, we sold our Advanced Materials business, which was
previously reported in our Industrial segment. 

We
reported the businesses described above as discontinued operations for all
periods presented. 

WE DECLARED $11.7 BILLION IN
DIVIDENDS IN 2007.  Per-share dividends of $1.15 were up 12% from 2006,
following a 13% increase from the preceding year. In December 2007, our Board of
Directors raised our quarterly dividend 11% to $0.31 per share. We have rewarded
our shareowners with over 100 consecutive years of dividends, with 32
consecutive years of dividend growth. 

Except
as otherwise noted, the analysis in the remainder of this section presents the
results of GE (with GECS included on a one-line basis) and GECS. See the Segment
Operations section for a more detailed discussion of the businesses within GE
and GECS. 

GE SALES OF PRODUCT SERVICES 
were $32.2 billion in 2007, a 9% increase over 2006. Increases in product
services in 2007 and 2006 were widespread, led by growth at Infrastructure,
Healthcare and Industrial. Operating profit from product services was $9.1
billion in 2007, up 9% from 2006, reflecting ongoing improvements at
Infrastructure. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 43 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS 
costs were $2.6 billion, $2.3 billion and $1.7 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The cost increased in 2007 primarily because of plan benefit
changes resulting from new U.S. labor agreements and increases in retiree
medical and drug costs, partially offset by increases in discount rates for the
year (principal pension plans  discount rate increased from 5.50% to 5.75%) and
effects of recent investment gains. The cost increased in 2006 and 2005
primarily because of the effects of prior years  investment losses and lower
discount rates. 

Considering
the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected
returns on various categories of assets in which our plans are invested, we have
assumed that long-term returns on our principal pension plan assets would be
8.5% for cost recognition in 2008, the same level as we assumed in 2005, 2006
and 2007. GAAP provides recognition of differences between assumed and actual
returns over a period no longer than the average future service of
employees. 

We
expect the costs of our postretirement benefit plans in 2008 to be about the
same as the 2007 costs. The effects of increasing discount rates (principal
pension plans  discount rate increasing from 5.75% to 6.34%) and recent
investment gains will be offset by additional costs of plan benefits resulting
from union negotiations and a pensioner increase for eligible retirees and
surviving spouses. 

Our
principal pension plans had a surplus of $16.8 billion at December 31,
2007. We will not make any contributions to the GE Pension Plan in 2008. At
December 31, 2007, the fair value of assets for our other pension plans was
$1.6 billion less than the respective projected benefit obligations. We expect
to contribute $0.5 billion to these plans in 2008, compared with actual
contributions of $0.7 billion and $0.5 billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Our principal retiree health and life plans obligations exceeded the fair value
of related assets by $11.2 billion at December 31, 2007. We fund our
retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. We expect to contribute $0.7
billion to these plans in 2008 compared with actual contributions of $0.6
billion in 2007 and 2006. 

The
funded status of our postretirement benefits plans and future effects on
operating results depend on economic conditions and investment performance. See
note 6 for additional information about funded status, components of earnings
effects and actuarial assumptions. 

GE OTHER COSTS AND EXPENSES 
are selling, general and administrative expenses. These costs were 14.2%, 14.3%
and 15.1% of total GE sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

INTEREST ON BORROWINGS AND OTHER
FINANCIAL CHARGES  amounted to $23.8 billion, $18.9 billion and $14.8
billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Substantially all of our
borrowings are in financial services, where interest expense was $22.7 billion,
$17.9 billion and $14.0 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Changes
over the three-year period reflected increased average borrowings and increased
interest rates attributable to rising credit spreads in line with general market
conditions. GECS average borrowings were $456.4 billion, $389.0 billion and
$346.1 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. GECS average composite
effective interest rate was 5.0% in 2007, 4.6% in 2006 and 4.1% in 2005.
Proceeds of these borrowings were used in part to finance asset growth and
acquisitions. In 2007, GECS average assets of $591.1 billion were 17% higher
than in 2006, which in turn were 9% higher than in 2005. See the Financial
Resources and Liquidity section for a discussion of interest rate risk
management. 

INCOME TAXES  are a significant
cost. As a global commercial enterprise, our tax rates are affected by many
factors, including our global mix of earnings, legislation, acquisitions,
dispositions and tax characteristics of our income. Our tax returns are
routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes
affect our tax provisions. 

Income
taxes on consolidated earnings from continuing operations before accounting
changes were 15.5% in 2007 compared with 16.9% in 2006 and 18.1% in 2005. Our
consolidated income tax rate decreased from 2006 to 2007 as the tax benefit on
the disposition of our investment in SES and an increase in favorable
settlements with tax authorities more than offset a decrease in the benefit from
lower-taxed earnings from global operations, which in 2006 included one-time tax
benefits from planning to use non-U.S. tax net operating losses. 

Our
consolidated income tax rate decreased from 2005 to 2006 as growth in
lower-taxed earnings from global operations, including one-time tax benefits
from planning to use non-U.S. tax net operating losses, exceeded 2005 tax
benefits from a reorganization of our aircraft leasing business, a repatriation
of non-U.S. earnings at a reduced rate of U.S. tax, and favorable settlements
with tax authorities. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 44 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

A
more detailed analysis of differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate
and the consolidated rate, as well as other information about our income tax
provisions, is provided in note 7. The nature of business activities and
associated income taxes differ for GE and for GECS and a separate analysis of
each is presented in the paragraphs that follow. 

Because
GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings, the GE effective tax
rate is best analyzed in relation to GE earnings excluding GECS. GE pre-tax
earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECS earnings from continuing
operations, were $12.8 billion, $11.7 billion and $11.0 billion for 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively. On this basis, GE s effective tax rate was 21.8% in
2007, 21.9% in 2006 and 24.3% in 2005. 

Resolution
of audit matters reduced the GE effective tax rate throughout this period. The
effects of such resolutions are included in the following captions in note
7: 

The
GE effective tax rate declined slightly from 2006 to 2007 because the 3.5
percentage point higher 2007 benefit from favorable audit resolutions was
largely offset by a 3.3 percentage point decrease in the benefit in lower-taxed
earnings from global operations, excluding audit resolutions and the effect of
tax law changes. The 2006 benefit from global operations included one-time tax
benefits from planning to use non--U.S. net operating losses against profitable
operations. 

The
GE rate decreased from 2005 to 2006 primarily from growth in lower-taxed
earnings from global operations, including one-time tax benefits from planning
to use non-U.S. net operating losses against profitable operations. These
benefits, which decreased the 2006 GE rate by 3.7 percentage points compared
with 2005, are included in note 7 in the line,  Tax on global activities
including exports.  Partially offsetting these items was a 0.5 percentage point
decrease in the benefit from favorable audit resolutions and the lack of a
counterpart to the 2005 repatriation of non--U.S. earnings at a reduced U.S. tax
rate, discussed below, which reduced the 2005 rate by 1.0 percentage
point. 

The
2005 GE rate reflects audit resolutions and our 2005 repatriation of non-U.S.
earnings at the reduced U.S. tax rate provided in 2004 legislation. 

The
GECS effective tax rate was 9.7% in 2007, compared with 12.0% in 2006 and 11.3%
in 2005. The GECS income tax rate decreased from 2006 to 2007 as the tax benefit
on the disposition of our investment in SES and growth in lower-taxed global
earnings, which decreased the GECS effective tax rate 4.0 and 1.2 percentage
points, respectively, were partially offset by higher net tax expense related to
U.S. and non-U.S. audit activity and from the absence of the 2006 benefit of the
reorganization, discussed below, of our aircraft leasing business which
increased the rate 1.6 and 1.1 percentage points, respectively. 

The
GECS rate increased from 2005 to 2006 as increased benefits from growth in
lower-taxed earnings from global operations was more than offset by a smaller
benefit on the reorganization of our aircraft leasing business. The increased
benefits from lower-taxed earnings from global operations (1.1 percentage
points) and the lower benefits on the reorganization of our aircraft leasing
business (2.1 percentage points) are included in the line,  Tax on global
activities including exports  in note 7. 

As
a result of the repeal of the extraterritorial income (ETI) taxing regime as
part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act), our aircraft leasing
business no longer qualifies for a reduced U.S. tax rate. However, the Act also
extended to aircraft leasing the U.S. tax deferral benefits that were already
available to other GE non-U.S. active operations. These legislative changes,
coupled with a reorganization of our aircraft leasing business and a favorable
Irish ruling, decreased the GECS effective tax rate 1.1 percentage points in
2006, compared with 3.2 percentage points in 2005. 

Global
Risk Management 

A
disciplined approach to risk is important in a diversified organization such as
ours in order to ensure that we are executing according to our strategic
objectives and that we only accept risk for which we are adequately compensated.
It is necessary for us to manage risk at the individual transaction level, and
to consider aggregate risk at the customer, industry, geographic and
collateral-type levels, where appropriate. 

The
GE Board of Directors oversees the risk management process through clearly
established delegation of authority. Board and committee meeting agendas are
jointly developed with management to cover risk topics presented to our
Corporate Risk Committee, including environmental, compliance, liquidity, credit
and market risks. 

The
GECS Board of Directors oversees the risk management process for financial
services, and approves all significant acquisitions and dispositions as well as
borrowings and investments. All participants in the risk management process must
comply with approval limits established by the Board. 

The
GECS Chief Risk Officer is responsible, with the Corporate Risk Function, for
establishing standards for the measurement, reporting and limiting of risk; for
managing and evaluating risk managers; for approving risk management policies;
and for reviewing major risk exposures and concentrations across the
organization. The GECS Corporate Risk Function analyzes certain business risks
and assesses them in relation to aggregate risk appetite and approval limits set
by the GECS Board of Directors. 

Threshold
responsibility for identifying, quantifying and mitigating risks is assigned to
our individual businesses. We employ proprietary analytic models to allocate
capital to our financing activities, to identify the primary sources of risk and
to measure the amount of risk we will take for each product line. This approach
allows us to develop early signals that monitor changes in risk affecting
portfolio performance and actively manage the portfolio. Other corporate
functions such as Financial Planning and Analysis, Treasury, Legal and our
Corporate Audit Staff support business-level risk management. Businesses that,
for example, hedge 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 45 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

financial
risk with derivative financial instruments must do so using our centrally
managed Treasury function, providing assurance that the business strategy
complies with our corporate policies and achieves economies of scale. We review
risks periodically with business-level risk managers, senior management and our
Board of Directors. 

GECS
employs about 19,000 dedicated risk professionals, including 11,500 involved in
collection activities and 500 specialized asset managers who evaluate leased
asset residuals and remarket off-lease equipment. 

GE
and GECS manage a variety of risks including liquidity, credit and market
risks. 

Liquidity
      risk is the risk of being unable to accommodate liability maturities, fund
      asset growth and meet contractual obligations through access to funding at
      reasonable market rates. Additional information about our liquidity and
      how we manage this risk can be found in the Financial Resources and
      Liquidity section and in notes 17 and
26. 

Credit
      risk is the risk of financial loss arising from a customer or counterparty
      failure to meet its contractual obligations. We face credit risk in our
      investing, lending and leasing activities (see the Financial Resources and
      Liquidity and Critical Accounting Estimates sections and notes 1, 9, 12,
      13 and 28) and derivative financial instruments activities (see note
      26). 

Market
      risk is the potential loss in value of investment and other asset and
      liability portfolios, including financial instruments and residual values
      of leased assets. This risk is caused by changes in market variables, such
      as interest and currency exchange rates and equity and commodity prices.
      We are exposed to market risk in the normal course of our business
      operations as a result of our ongoing investing and funding activities.
      Additional information can be found in the Financial Resources and
      Liquidity section and in notes 9, 12, 14 and
26. 

Other
risks include natural disasters, availability of necessary materials, guarantees
of product performance and business interruption. These types of risks are often
insurable, and success in managing these risks is ultimately determined by the
balance between the level of risk retained or assumed and the cost of
transferring risk to others. 

Segment
Operations 

Operating
segments comprise our six businesses focused on the broad markets they serve:
Infrastructure, Commercial Finance, GE Money, Healthcare, NBC Universal and
Industrial. For segment reporting purposes, certain GECS businesses including
Aviation Financial Services, Energy Financial Services and Transportation
Finance are reported in the Infrastructure segment because Infrastructure
actively manages such businesses and reports their results for internal
performance measurement purposes. 

Segment
profit is determined based on internal performance measures used by the Chief
Executive Officer to assess the performance of each business in a given period.
In connection with that assessment, the Chief Executive Officer may exclude
matters such as charges for restructuring; rationalization and other similar
expenses; in-process research and development and certain other
acquisition-related charges and balances; technology and product development
costs; certain gains and losses from dispositions; and litigation settlements or
other charges, responsibility for which preceded the current management
team. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 46 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Summary
of Operating Segments 

(a) 

During
      the fourth quarter of 2007, we transferred the Equipment Services business
      from the Industrial segment to the Commercial Finance segment, where a
      portion of the business is reported in Capital Solutions. 

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial
  statements. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 47 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Segment
profit always excludes the effects of principal pension plans, results reported
as discontinued operations and accounting changes. Segment profit excludes or
includes interest and other financial charges and income taxes according to how
a particular segment s management is measured  -  excluded in
determining segment profit, which we sometimes refer to as  operating profit, 
for Healthcare, NBC Universal, Industrial and the industrial businesses of the
Infrastructure segment; included in determining segment profit, which we
sometimes refer to as  net earnings,  for Commercial Finance, GE Money, and the
financial services businesses of the Infrastructure segment (Aviation Financial
Services, Energy Financial Services and Transportation Finance). 

In
addition to providing information on segments in their entirety, we have also
provided supplemental information for certain businesses within the
segments. 

We
have reclassified certain prior-period amounts to conform to the current
period s presentation. For additional information about our segments, see note
25. 

INFRASTRUCTURE 

Infrastructure
revenues rose 23%, or $11.0 billion, in 2007 on higher volume ($7.9 billion),
higher prices ($1.1 billion) and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.8
billion) at the industrial businesses in the segment. The increase in volume
reflected the effects of acquisitions at Aviation and Oil   Gas and
increased sales of commercial engines and services at Aviation, thermal and wind
equipment at Energy, and equipment and services at Oil   Gas and
Transportation. The increase in price was primarily at Energy and Aviation,
while the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar were primarily at Oil   Gas and
Energy. Revenues also increased as a result of acquisitions ($0.7 billion) and
organic revenue growth ($0.6 billion), primarily at Energy Financial Services
and Aviation Financial Services. 

Segment
profit rose 22% to $10.8 billion in 2007, compared with $8.8 billion in 2006, as
higher volume ($1.3 billion), higher prices ($1.1 billion), productivity ($0.1
billion), the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion) and higher sales
of minority interests in engine programs ($0.1 billion) more than offset the
effects of higher material and other costs ($0.9 billion) at the industrial
businesses in the segment. The increase in volume primarily related to Aviation,
Energy and Oil   Gas. Segment profit from the financial services businesses
increased $0.1 billion, primarily as a result of core growth at Aviation
Financial Services. 

Infrastructure
revenues rose 13%, or $5.3 billion, in 2006 on higher volume ($4.4 billion),
higher prices ($0.3 billion) and the effects of late 2006 weakening of the U.S.
dollar ($0.1 billion) at the industrial businesses in the segment. The increase
in volume reflected increased sales of power generation equipment at Energy,
commercial and military services and commercial engines at Aviation, equipment
at Oil   Gas, and locomotives at Transportation. The increase in price was
primarily at Energy and Transportation. Revenues also increased as a result of
organic revenue growth at Aviation Financial Services ($0.7 billion) and Energy
Financial Services ($0.3 billion). Intra-segment revenues, which increased $0.5
billion, were eliminated from total Infrastructure revenues. 

Segment
profit rose 15% to $8.8 billion in 2006, compared with $7.7 billion in 2005, as
higher volume ($0.6 billion), higher prices ($0.3 billion) and productivity
($0.3 billion) more than offset the effects of higher material and other costs
($0.4 billion) at the industrial businesses in the segment. The increase in
volume primarily related to Aviation, Energy, Transportation and Oil   Gas.
Segment profit from the financial services businesses increased as a result of
core growth at Aviation Financial Services ($0.3 billion), including growth in
lower-taxed earnings from global operations that were more than offset by lower
one-time benefits from our aircraft leasing business reorganization, and core
growth at Energy Financial Services. 

Infrastructure
orders were $64.4 billion in 2007, up from $51.0 billion in 2006. The $58.5
billion total backlog at year-end 2007 comprised unfilled product orders of
$44.4 billion (of which 61% was scheduled for delivery in 2008) and product
services orders of $14.1 billion scheduled for 2008 delivery. Comparable
December 31, 2006, total backlog was $39.2 billion, of which $27.0 billion
was for unfilled product orders and $12.2 billion, for product services orders.
See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to
this segment. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 48 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

COMMERCIAL
FINANCE 

Commercial
Finance 2007 revenues and net earnings increased 11% and 14%, respectively,
compared with 2006. Revenues in 2007 and 2006 included $2.4 billion and $0.1
billion from acquisitions, respectively, and in 2007 were reduced by $2.7
billion as a result of dispositions. Revenues in 2007 also increased $3.7
billion as a result of organic revenue growth ($2.7 billion) and the weaker U.S.
dollar ($1.0 billion). The increase in net earnings resulted from core growth
($0.5 billion), acquisitions ($0.2 billion), the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1
billion), and investment income ($0.1 billion), partially offset by dispositions
($0.1 billion) and lower securitization income ($0.1 billion). Core growth
included $0.5 billion representing the total year s tax benefit on the
disposition of our investment in SES, partially offset by $0.2 billion of higher
credit losses and $0.1 billion in charges related to mark-to-market adjustments
to loans held-for-sale. Investment income included higher SES gains ($0.1
billion) offset by impairments of securitization retained interests ($0.1
billion). 

Real
Estate assets at December 31, 2007, increased $25.5 billion, or 47%, from
December 31, 2006, of which $12.6 billion was real estate investments, also
up 47%. Real Estate net earnings increased 24% compared with 2006, primarily as
a result of a $0.5 billion increase in net earnings from sales of real estate
investments. 

Commercial
Finance 2006 revenues and net earnings increased 13% and 18%, respectively,
compared with 2005. Revenues in 2006 and 2005 included $1.2 billion and $0.1
billion from acquisitions, respectively, and in 2006 were reduced by $0.1
billion as a result of dispositions. Revenues in 2006 also increased as a result
of organic revenue growth ($2.5 billion) and the second quarter 2006
consolidation of GE SeaCo, an entity previously accounted for using the equity
method ($0.2 billion). The increase in net earnings resulted from core growth
($0.7 billion), including growth in lower-taxed earnings from global operations,
and acquisitions ($0.1 billion). 

Real
Estate assets at December 31, 2006, increased $18.5 billion, or 52%, from
December 31, 2005, of which $12.4 billion was real estate investments, up
76%. Real Estate net earnings increased 44% compared with 2005, primarily as a
result of a $0.6 billion increase in net earnings from real estate investments.
See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to
this segment. 

GE
MONEY 

GE
Money 2007 revenues and net earnings increased 26% and 31%, respectively,
compared with 2006. Revenues in 2007 included $0.4 billion from acquisitions.
Revenues in 2007 also increased $4.8 billion as a result of organic revenue
growth ($3.5 billion) and the weaker U.S. dollar ($1.4 billion). The increase in
net earnings resulted primarily from core growth ($0.4 billion), higher
securitization income ($0.4 billion) and the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.2 billion).
Core growth included growth in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.4
billion) and the sale of part of our Garanti investment ($0.2 billion),
partially offset by declines in fair value of retained interests in
securitizations ($0.1 billion) and lower results in the U.S. reflecting the
effects of higher delinquencies. 

GE
Money 2006 revenues and net earnings increased 16% and 29%, respectively,
compared with 2005. Revenues in 2006 included $0.9 billion from acquisitions.
Revenues in 2006 also increased $1.8 billion as a result of organic revenue
growth. The increase in net earnings resulted primarily from core growth ($0.5
billion), including growth in lower-taxed earnings from global operations,
acquisitions ($0.2 billion) and higher securitizations ($0.1 billion). See
Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this
segment. 

HEALTHCARE  revenues rose 3% to
$17.0 billion in 2007 as the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.5 billion)
and higher volume ($0.4 billion) more than offset lower prices ($0.5 billion).
Increased sales in the international diagnostic imaging, clinical systems and
life sciences businesses were partially offset by price pressures on U.S.
equipment sales and lower sales of surgical imaging equipment resulting from
regulatory suspensions of equipment shipments. Segment profit of $3.1 billion in
2007 was 3% lower than in 2006 as lower prices ($0.5 billion) and higher labor
and other costs ($0.2 billion) were substantially offset by the effects of
productivity ($0.4 billion) and higher volume ($0.1 billion). 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 49 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Healthcare
revenues rose 10% to $16.6 billion in 2006 as higher volume ($2.0 billion) more
than offset the effect of lower prices ($0.4 billion). The rise in volume
related to increases in healthcare services, including the 2006 acquisition of
IDX Systems Corporation and stronger equipment sales. Segment profit of $3.1
billion was 21% higher than in 2005 as productivity ($0.6 billion) and higher
volume ($0.4 billion) more than offset lower prices ($0.4 billion) and higher
labor and other costs ($0.1 billion). 

Orders
received by Healthcare were $16.7 billion in both 2007 and 2006. The $5.6
billion total backlog at year-end 2007 comprised unfilled product orders of $3.5
billion (of which 94% was scheduled for delivery in 2008) and product services
orders of $2.1 billion scheduled for 2008 delivery. Comparable December 31,
2006, total backlog was $5.9 billion, of which $3.9 billion was for unfilled
product orders and $2.0 billion for product services orders. See Corporate Items
and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this
segment. 

NBC UNIVERSAL  revenues
declined 5%, or $0.8 billion, in 2007, primarily from the lack of current-year
counterparts to the 2006 Olympic Games broadcasts ($0.7 billion) and 2006 sale
of television stations ($0.2 billion), lower revenues in our broadcast network
and television stations as a result of lower advertising sales ($0.5 billion)
and lower motion picture revenues ($0.1 billion), partially offset by higher
revenues for cable ($0.4 billion) and television production and distribution
($0.3 billion). Segment profit rose 6%, or $0.2 billion, in 2007 as improvements
in cable ($0.2 billion), television production and distribution ($0.2 billion),
motion pictures ($0.1 billion) and the absence of Olympic broadcasts in 2007
($0.1 billion) were partially offset by the lack of a current-year counterpart
to the 2006 sale of four television stations ($0.2 billion) and lower earnings
from our broadcast network and television stations ($0.2 billion). 

Revenues
rose 10%, or $1.5 billion, in 2006, primarily from the 2006 Olympic Games
broadcasts ($0.7 billion), improvements in cable ($0.6 billion) and motion
pictures ($0.2 billion), and the effects of exiting a film distribution
agreement ($0.2 billion), partially offset by the effects of lower broadcast
network and television stations ratings and advertising sales ($0.1 billion) and
the net effects of certain strategic actions in both years ($0.1 billion).
Segment profit declined 6%, or $0.2 billion, in 2006 as lower earnings from
broadcast network and television station operations ($0.4 billion), the 2006
Olympic Games broadcasts ($0.1 billion), and the net effects of certain
strategic actions in both years ($0.1 billion) were partially offset by higher
earnings from cable ($0.2 billion) and the effects of exiting a film
distribution agreement ($0.1 billion). See Corporate Items and Eliminations for
a discussion of items not allocated to this segment. 

INDUSTRIAL 

Industrial
revenues were about the same in 2007 compared with 2006 as lower volume ($0.5
billion) was offset by the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and
higher prices ($0.2 billion). The decrease in volume was primarily at Consumer
  Industrial, reflecting the sale of GE Supply in the third quarter of 2006,
partially offset by increases in volume at Enterprise Solutions. The effects of
the weaker U.S. dollar were at both Consumer   Industrial and Enterprise
Solutions and price increases were primarily at Consumer   Industrial.
Segment profit rose 9%, or $0.1 billion, as productivity ($0.4 billion) and
higher prices ($0.2 billion), primarily at Consumer   Industrial, were
substantially offset by higher material and other costs ($0.4 billion),
primarily at Consumer   Industrial. 

Industrial
revenues rose 4%, or $0.7 billion, in 2006 on higher volume ($0.5 billion) and
higher prices ($0.2 billion). Volume increases were primarily at Enterprise
Solutions and price increases were primarily at Consumer   Industrial.
Segment profit rose 22% as productivity ($0.5 billion), at both Consumer  
Industrial and Enterprise Solutions, and higher prices ($0.2 billion) at
Consumer   Industrial were partially offset by higher material and other
costs ($0.4 billion), primarily at Consumer   Industrial. See Corporate
Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this
segment. 

CORPORATE
ITEMS AND ELIMINATIONS 

Corporate
Items and Eliminations include the effects of eliminating transactions between
operating segments; results of our insurance activities remaining in continuing
operations; cost of, and cost reductions from, our principal pension plans;
underabsorbed corporate overhead; certain non-allocated amounts described below;
and a variety of sundry items. Corporate Items 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 50 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

and
Eliminations is not an operating segment. Rather, it is added to operating
segment totals to reconcile to consolidated totals on the financial
statements. 

Certain
amounts included in the line  Other  above are not allocated to segment results
for internal measurement purposes. In 2007, amounts primarily related to
restructuring, rationalization and other charges were $0.5 billion at Industrial
(including $0.1 billion of product quality issues), $0.4 billion at Healthcare,
$0.3 billion at each of NBC Universal, Commercial Finance and Infrastructure and
$0.1 billion at GE Money. Amounts in 2007 also included technology and product
development costs of $0.1 billion at NBC Universal. GECS amounts are on an
after-tax basis. In 2006, amounts related principally to technology and product
development and restructuring costs of $0.2 billion at NBC Universal,
restructuring and other charges of $0.2 billion at Industrial and principally
for acquisition-related restructuring and other charges of $0.1 billion at
Healthcare. 

Other
operating profit (cost) also reflects a $0.9 billion gain on sale of a business
interest to Hitachi by the Energy business and a $0.3 billion (after-tax basis)
gain on sale of Swiss Re common stock. Other operating profit (cost) also
reflects gains from sales of business interests of $0.4 billion in 2006,
principally GE Supply, and $0.1 billion from the partial sale of an interest in
Genpact in 2005. 

DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS 

Discontinued
operations comprised Lake; WMC; Plastics; Advanced Materials; the property and
casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses and the European life and health
operations of GE Insurance Solutions and most of its affiliates; GE Life, our
U.K.-based life insurance operation; and Genworth, our formerly wholly-owned
subsidiary that conducted most of our consumer insurance business, including
life and mortgage insurance operations. Results of these businesses are reported
as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

In
December 2007, we completed the sale of our WMC business for $0.1 billion in
cash, recognizing an after-tax loss of $0.1 billion. In connection with the
transaction, certain contractual obligations and potential liabilities related
to previously sold loans were retained. 

In
September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Lake business. In connection
with this exit, we recorded an after-tax loss of $0.9 billion, which represents
the difference between the net book value of our Lake business and the projected
sale price. 

In
August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business to Saudi Basic
Industries Corporation for $11.6 billion in cash. As a result, we recognized an
after-tax gain of $1.6 billion. 

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2007 was $0.3 billion, reflecting
a loss from operations at WMC ($0.9 billion), an estimated after-tax loss on the
planned sale of Lake ($0.9 billion), a loss from operations at Lake ($0.3
billion), and an after-tax loss on sale of our WMC business ($0.1 billion),
partially offset by a tax adjustment related to the 2004 initial public offering
of Genworth ($0.1 billion). This was partially offset by an after-tax gain on
sale of our Plastics business ($1.6 billion) and earnings from Plastics
operations ($0.3 billion). 

Earnings
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2006 were $1.4 billion,
reflecting earnings at our Plastics and Advanced Materials businesses ($1.0
billion). Also included in these earnings were earnings at Lake and WMC ($0.2
billion), Genworth ($0.2 billion) and GE Insurance Solutions ($0.1 billion),
partially offset by a loss at GE Life ($0.2 billion). 

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2005 was $0.6 billion, reflecting
a loss at GE Insurance Solutions ($2.8 billion), partially offset by earnings at
Genworth ($0.9 billion), Plastics and Advanced Materials ($0.8 billion) and Lake
and WMC ($0.5 billion). 

For
additional information related to discontinued operations, see note
2. 

Geographic
Operations 

Our
global activities span all geographic regions and primarily encompass
manufacturing for local and export markets, import and sale of products produced
in other regions, leasing of aircraft, sourcing for our plants domiciled in
other global regions and provision of financial services within these regional
economies. Thus, when countries or regions experience currency and/or economic
stress, we often have increased exposure to certain risks, but also often have
new profit opportunities. Potential increased risks include, among other things,
higher receivable delinquencies and bad debts, delays or cancellations of sales
and orders principally related to power and aircraft equipment, higher local
currency financing costs and slowdown in established financial services
activities. New profit opportunities include, among other things, more
opportunities for lower cost outsourcing, expansion of industrial and financial
services activities through purchases of companies or assets at reduced prices
and lower U.S. debt financing costs. 

Revenues
are classified according to the region to which products and services are sold.
For purposes of this analysis, U.S. is presented separately from the remainder
of the Americas. We classify certain operations that cannot meaningfully be
associated with specific geographic areas as  Other Global  for this
purpose. 

GEOGRAPHIC
REVENUES 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 51 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Global
revenues rose 22% to $86.5 billion in 2007, compared with $70.8 billion and
$60.9 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Global revenues to external
customers as a percentage of consolidated revenues were 50% in 2007, compared
with 47% and 45% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effects of currency
fluctuations on reported results were to increase revenues by $4.0
billion, $0.1 billion and $0.8 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. 

GE
global revenues in 2007 were $49.8 billion, up 16% over 2006, led by increases
at Infrastructure, primarily in the Middle East and Africa, Europe and the
Pacific Basin. GE global revenues were $43.0 billion in 2006, up 15% over 2005,
led by increases at Infrastructure, primarily in Europe, Middle East and Africa
and the Pacific Basin. 

GECS
global revenues rose 32% to $36.7 billion in 2007, compared with $27.8 billion
and $23.4 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. Global revenues as a
percentage of total revenues were 51% in 2007, compared with 45% and 42% in 2006
and 2005, respectively. The effects of currency fluctuations on reported results
were to increase revenues by $2.3 billion and $0.6 billion in 2007 and 2005,
respectively, compared with a decrease of $0.1 billion in 2006. 

GECS
revenues in the Middle East and Africa grew 32% in 2007, primarily as a result
of organic revenue growth at Infrastructure. Revenues grew 35% in the Pacific
Basin, 30% in Europe and 23% in the Americas in 2007, primarily as a result of
organic revenue growth, acquisitions and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar,
primarily at Commercial Finance and GE Money. 

Total
assets of global operations on a continuing basis were $420.3 billion in 2007,
an increase of $87.9 billion, or 26%, over 2006. GECS global assets on a
continuing basis of $363.6 billion at the end of 2007 were 21% higher than at
the end of 2006, reflecting core growth, acquisitions and the effects of the
weaker U.S. dollar in Europe, the Pacific Basin and the Americas, primarily at
Commercial Finance and GE Money. 

Financial
results of our global activities reported in U.S. dollars are affected by
currency exchange. We use a number of techniques to manage the effects of
currency exchange, including selective borrowings in local currencies and
selective hedging of significant cross-currency transactions. Such principal
currencies are the pound sterling, the euro, the Japanese yen and the Canadian
dollar. 

Environmental
Matters 

Our
operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under
environmental protection laws. 

We
are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous
wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that
responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of
original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site
remediation actions amounted to $0.2 billion in both 2007 and 2006. We presently
expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures in
the range of $0.2 billion to $0.3 billion over the next two years. 

The
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ruled in February 2002 that
approximately 150,000 pounds of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) must be dredged
from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York state. On November
2, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York approved
a consent decree entered into between GE and the EPA that represents a
comprehensive framework for implementation of the EPA s 2002 decision to dredge
PCB-containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. The dredging will be
performed in two phases with an intervening peer review of performance after
phase 1. Under this consent decree, we have committed up to $0.1 billion to
reimburse the EPA for its past and future project oversight costs and agreed to
perform the first phase of dredging. We further committed that, subject to
future agreement with the EPA about completion of dredging after completion of
phase 1 and the peer review, we will be responsible for further costs, including
costs of phase 2 dredging. Our Statement of Financial Position as of
December 31, 2007 and 2006, included liabilities for the estimated costs of
this remediation. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 52 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Financial
Resources and Liquidity 

This
discussion of financial resources and liquidity addresses the Statement of
Financial Position, the Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity, the
Statement of Cash Flows, Contractual Obligations, Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements, and Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Covenants. 

The
fundamental differences between GE and GECS are reflected in the measurements
commonly used by investors, rating agencies and financial analysts. These
differences will become clearer in the discussion that follows with respect to
the more significant items in the financial statements. 

Overview
of Financial Position 

Major
changes in our financial position resulted from the following: 

During
      2007, we separately reported the assets and liabilities of Plastics, Lake
      and WMC as discontinued operations for all periods presented. As of
      December 31, 2007, we have completed the sales of Plastics and WMC,
      reducing assets and liabilities of discontinued operations by $13.2
      billion and $2.1 billion,
respectively. 

During
      2007, we completed the acquisitions of Smiths Aerospace Group Ltd.; Vetco
      Gray; Oxygen Media Corp.; Sondex PLC; Sparrowhawk Holdings Ltd.; Phoenix;
      Dynamic Imaging, LLC; Sanyo Electric Credit Co., Ltd.; DISKO and ASL, the
      leasing businesses of KG Allgemeine Leasing GmbH   Co.; Trustreet
      Properties, Inc.; Dundee REIT; Crow Holdings; and a controlling interest
      in Regency Energy Partners LP. 

The
      U.S. dollar was weaker at December 31, 2007, than it was at
      December 31, 2006, increasing the translated levels of our non-U.S.
      dollar assets and liabilities. Overall, on average, the U.S. dollar in
      2007 was weaker than during the comparable 2006 period, resulting in
      increasing the translated levels of our operations as noted in the
      preceding Operations section. 

Statement
of Financial Position 

Because
GE and GECS share certain significant elements of their Statements of Financial
Position  - 
property, plant and equipment and borrowings, for example  -  the following
discussion addresses significant captions in the  consolidated  statement.
Within the following discussions, however, we distinguish between GE and GECS
activities in order to permit meaningful analysis of each individual
consolidating statement. 

INVESTMENT SECURITIES  comprise
mainly investment-grade debt securities supporting obligations to annuitants and
policyholders in our run-off insurance businesses and holders of guaranteed
investment contracts (GICS). Investment securities were $45.4 billion at
December 31, 2007, compared with $47.8 billion at December 31, 2006. Of the
amount at December 31, 2007, we held mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and
asset-backed securities (ABS) with estimated fair values of $8.4 billion and
$2.2 billion, respectively. Such amounts included unrealized losses of $0.3
billion and $0.1 billion, respectively. Of the MBS amount, $5.5 billion related
to residential MBS and $2.9 billion to commercial MBS. 

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had approximately $1.6 billion of exposure to
subprime credit supporting our guaranteed investment contracts, a majority of
which relates to residential MBS receiving credit ratings of Double A or better
from the major rating agencies. We purchased an insignificant amount of such
securities in 2007. Our subprime investment securities were collateralized
primarily by pools of individual, direct mortgage loans, not other structured
products such as collateralized debt obligations. 

Monoline
insurers (Monolines) provide credit enhancement for certain of our investment
securities. The current credit environment could have a significant effect on
the ability of such financial guarantors to fulfill their obligations. At
December 31, 2007, our investment securities insured by Monolines amounted
to $3.5 billion, including $1.2 billion of our $1.6 billion investment in
subprime residential MBS. 

We
regularly review investment securities for impairment using both quantitative
and qualitative criteria. Quantitative criteria include length of time and
amount that each security is in an unrealized loss position and, for fixed
maturities, whether the issuer is in compliance with terms and covenants of the
security. Qualitative criteria include the financial health of and specific
prospects for the issuer, as well as our intent and ability to hold the security
to maturity or until forecasted recovery. Our impairment reviews involve our
finance, risk and asset management functions as well as the portfolio management
and research capabilities of our internal and third-party asset managers. Our
qualitative review attempts to identify issuers  securities  at-risk  of
impairment, that is, with a greater than 50% chance of default in the following
12 months. At December 31, 2007, investment securities in an unrealized
loss position included $0.1 billion that was at risk of being charged to
earnings in the next 12 months. 

Impairment
losses totaled $0.1 billion in both 2007 and 2006, primarily at Commercial
Finance. In 2007, we recognized impairments primarily for our retained interests
in off-balance sheet arrangements. In 2006, we recognized impairments on
securities of issuers in a variety of industries; we do not believe that any of
the impairments indicate likely future impairments in the remaining portfolio.
Investments in retained interests in off-balance sheet arrangements at GE Money
also decreased by $0.1 billion during 2007, reflecting declines in fair value
accounted for in accordance with a new accounting standard that became effective
at the beginning of 2007. 

Gross
unrealized gains and losses totaled $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively,
at December 31, 2007, compared with $2.9 billion and $0.3 billion,
respectively, at December 31, 2006, primarily reflecting a decrease in
estimated fair values of U.S. corporate and MBS debt securities and a decrease
caused by sale of certain equity securities. At December 31, 2007,
available 2008 accounting gains could be as much as $0.7 billion, net of
consequential adjustments to certain insurance assets that are amortized based
on anticipated gross profits. The market values 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 53 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

we
used in determining unrealized gains and losses are those defined by relevant
accounting standards and are not a forecast of future gains or losses. We
presently intend to hold our investment securities that are in an unrealized
loss position at December 31, 2007, at least until we can recover their
respective amortized cost and we have the ability to hold our debt securities
until their maturities. See note 9. 

WORKING CAPITAL , representing
GE inventories and receivables from customers, less trade payables and progress
collections, was $5.2 billion at December 31, 2007, down $1.5 billion from
December 31, 2006, reflecting higher progress collections at
Energy. 

We
discuss current receivables and inventories, two important elements of working
capital, in the following paragraphs. 

CURRENT RECEIVABLES  for GE
amounted to $15.1 billion at the end of 2007 and $13.8 billion at the end of
2006, and included $11.0 billion due from customers at the end of 2007 compared
with $8.8 billion at the end of 2006. Turnover of customer receivables from
sales of goods and services was 9.9 in 2007, compared with 10.0 in 2006. Other
current receivables are primarily amounts that did not originate from sales of
GE goods or services, such as advances to suppliers in connection with large
contracts. See note 10. 

INVENTORIES  for GE amounted to
$12.8 billion at December 31, 2007, up $2.9 billion from the end of 2006.
This increase reflected higher inventories from acquisitions and at
Infrastructure, which is in line with anticipated growth. GE inventory turnover
was 7.9 and 8.8 in 2007 and 2006, respectively. See note 11. 

FINANCING RECEIVABLES  is our
largest category of assets and represents one of our primary sources of
revenues. The portfolio of financing receivables, before allowance for losses,
was $389.9 billion at December 31, 2007, and $332.6 billion at
December 31, 2006. The related allowance for losses at December 31,
2007, amounted to $4.3 billion, compared with $4.0 billion at December 31,
2006, representing our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the
portfolio. The 2007 increase reflected overall growth in our portfolio,
increased delinquencies in the U.S. at GE Money, and the weaker U.S. dollar,
primarily at GE Money; partially offset by continued strong credit quality at
Commercial Finance. 

A
discussion of the quality of certain elements of the financing receivables
portfolio follows. For purposes of that discussion,  delinquent  receivables are
those that are 30 days or more past due; and  nonearning  receivables are those
that are 90 days or more past due (or for which collection has otherwise become
doubtful). 

Commercial
Finance financing receivables, before allowance for losses, totaled $187.9
billion at December 31, 2007, compared with $154.2 billion at December 31, 2006,
and consisted of loans and financing leases to the equipment, commercial and
industrial, and real estate industries. This portfolio of receivables increased
primarily from core growth ($63.3 billion), acquisitions ($14.3 billion), and
the weaker U.S. dollar ($5.7 billion), partially offset by securitizations and
sales ($47.1 billion). Related nonearning receivables were $1.7 billion (0.9% of
outstanding receivables) at December 31, 2007, and $1.6 billion (1.0% of
outstanding receivables) at year-end 2006. Commercial Finance financing
receivables are generally backed by assets and there is a broad spread of
geographic and credit risk in the portfolio. 

GE
Money financing receivables, before allowance for losses, were $174.8 billion at
December 31, 2007, compared with $150.4 billion at December 31, 2006,
and consisted primarily of card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and
leases, and residential mortgages. This portfolio of receivables increased
primarily as a result of core growth ($15.0 billion), the weaker U.S. dollar
($9.8 billion) and acquisitions ($1.4 billion), partially offset by loans
transferred to assets held for sale ($1.0 billion) and dispositions ($1.0
billion). Related nonearning receivables were $3.7 billion at December 31,
2007, compared with $3.2 billion at December 31, 2006, both representing
2.1% of outstanding receivables. The increase was primarily related to the
weaker U.S. dollar at the end of the year and overall growth in the
portfolio. 

Infrastructure
financing receivables, before allowance for losses, were $22.1 billion at
December 31, 2007, compared with $21.2 billion at December 31, 2006,
and consisted primarily of loans and leases to the commercial aircraft and
energy industries. Related nonearning receivables were insignificant at
December 31, 2007 and 2006. 

Other
financing receivables, before allowance for losses, were $5.1 billion and $6.9
billion at December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006, respectively, and
consisted primarily of financing receivables in consolidated, liquidating
securitization entities. This portfolio of receivables decreased because we have
stopped transferring assets to these entities. Related nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2007, were $0.1 billion (1.4% of outstanding receivables)
compared with $0.1 billion (1.2% of outstanding receivables) at
December 31, 2006. 

Delinquency
rates on managed Commercial Finance equipment loans and leases and managed GE
Money financing receivables follow. 

Delinquency
rates at Commercial Finance decreased from December 31, 2005, through
December 31, 2007, reflecting continued strong credit quality. 

Delinquency
rates at GE Money increased from December 31, 2006, to December 31,
2007, primarily as a result of the deteriorating consumer credit environment in
the U.S. At December 31, 2007, approximately one-third of our U.S.-managed
portfolio, which consisted of credit card, installment and revolving loans, was
receivable from subprime borrowers. We had no U.S. subprime residential mortgage
loans at December 31, 2007. The U.S. experience had not affected our non-U.S.
portfolios at December 31, 2007; those delinquency rates remained fairly stable.
See notes 12 and 13. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 54 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

OTHER GECS RECEIVABLES  totaled
$22.1 billion at December 31, 2007, and $21.7 billion at December 31,
2006, and consisted primarily of amounts due from GE (generally related to
certain material procurement programs), insurance receivables, nonfinancing
customer receivables, amounts due under operating leases, receivables due on
sale of securities and various sundry items. 

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
amounted to $77.9 billion at December 31, 2007, up $7.2 billion from 2006,
primarily reflecting acquisitions and additions of commercial aircraft at the
Aviation Financial Services business of Infrastructure and fleet vehicles at
Commercial Finance. GE property, plant and equipment consisted of investments
for its own productive use, whereas the largest element for GECS was equipment
provided to third parties on operating leases. Details by category of investment
are presented in note 14. 

GE
additions to property, plant and equipment during 2007 totaled $3.0 billion,
compared with $2.9 billion in 2006. Total expenditures, excluding equipment
leased to others, for the past five years were $13.2 billion, of which 32% was
investment for growth through new capacity and product development; 33% was
investment in productivity through new equipment and process improvements; and
35% was investment for other purposes such as improvement of research and
development facilities and safety and environmental protection. 

GECS
additions to property, plant and equipment were $15.2 billion and $13.2 billion
during 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily reflecting acquisitions and
additions of vehicles at Commercial Finance and commercial aircraft at the
Aviation Financial Services business of Infrastructure. 

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE
ASSETS  amounted to $81.1 billion and $16.2 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2007. Goodwill increased $9.7 billion and other intangible assets
increased $3.3 billion from 2006, primarily from acquisitions  -  including Smiths
Aerospace Group Ltd. and Vetco Gray by Infrastructure, DISKO and ASL and Sanyo
Electric Credit Co., Ltd. by Commercial Finance and Oxygen Media Corp. by NBC
Universal  -  and
from the weaker U.S. dollar. See note 15. 

ALL OTHER ASSETS  totaled
$122.9 billion at year-end 2007, an increase of $31.2 billion, reflecting
increases from additional investments and acquisitions in real estate, increases
in associated companies, prepaid pension assets and assets held for sale. See
note 16. 

BORROWINGS  amounted to $514.1
billion at December 31, 2007, compared with $432.8 billion at the end of
2006. 

GE
total borrowings were $15.8 billion at year-end 2007 ($4.1 billion short term,
$11.7 billion long term) compared with $11.1 billion at December 31, 2006.
The increase ($4.7 billion) is mainly attributable to long-term borrowings and
will partially be used to repay maturing long-term debt in 2008. GE total debt
at the end of 2007 equaled 11.4% of total capital compared with 8.7% at the end
of 2006. 

GECS
borrowings amounted to $500.9 billion at December 31, 2007, of which $192.4
billion is due in 2008 and $308.5 billion is due in subsequent years. Comparable
amounts at the end of 2006 were $426.3 billion in total, $173.3 billion due
within one year and $253.0 billion due thereafter. The increase in borrowings
primarily resulted from new issuances of GE Capital long-term debt ($90.3
billion), the weaker U.S. dollar ($15.8 billion), acquisitions ($11.0 billion)
and increase in short-term borrowings ($6.4 billion), partially offset by
maturities and other redemptions of long-term debt ($47.9 billion). Included in
GECS total borrowings were borrowings of consolidated, liquidating
securitization entities amounting to $9.3 billion and $11.1 billion at December
31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. A large portion of GECS borrowings ($101.1
billion and $93.8 billion at the end of 2007 and 2006, respectively) was issued
in active unsecured commercial paper markets that we believe will continue to be
a reliable source of short-term financing. The average remaining terms and
interest rates of GE Capital commercial paper were 56 days and 4.79% at the end
of 2007, compared with 48 days and 5.09% at the end of 2006. The GE Capital
ratio of debt to equity was 8.10 to 1 at the end of 2007 and 7.52 to 1 at the
end of 2006. See note 17. 

EXCHANGE RATE AND INTEREST RATE
RISKS  are managed with a variety of techniques, including match funding
and selective use of derivatives. We use derivatives to mitigate or eliminate
certain financial and market risks because we conduct business in diverse
markets around the world and local funding is not always efficient. In addition,
we use derivatives to adjust the debt we are issuing to match the fixed or
floating nature of the assets we are acquiring. We apply strict policies to
manage each of these risks, including prohibitions on derivatives trading,
derivatives market-making or other speculative activities. Following is an
analysis of the potential effects of changes in interest rates and currency
exchange rates using so-called  shock  tests that model effects of shifts in
rates. These are not forecasts. 

It
      is our policy to minimize exposure to interest rate changes. We fund our
      financial investments using debt or a combination of debt and hedging
      instruments so that the interest rates and terms of our borrowings match
      the expected yields and terms on our assets. To test the effectiveness of
      our positions, we assumed that, on January 1, 2008, interest rates
      increased by 100 basis points across the yield curve (a  parallel shift 
      in that curve) and further assumed that the increase remained in place for
      2008. We estimated, based on the year-end 2007 portfolio and holding
      everything else constant, that our 2008 GE consolidated net earnings would
      decline by $0.1 billion. 

It
      is our policy to minimize currency exposures and to conduct operations
      either within functional currencies or using the protection of hedge
      strategies. We analyzed year-end 2007 consolidated currency exposures,
      including derivatives designated and effective as hedges, to identify
      assets and liabilities denominated in other than their relevant functional
      currencies. For such assets and liabilities, we then evaluated the effects
      of a 10% shift in exchange rates between those currencies and the U.S.
      dollar. This analysis indicated that there would be an inconsequential
      effect on 2008 earnings of such a shift in exchange
  rates. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 55 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity 

Shareowners 
equity increased by $4.1 billion and $2.9 billion in 2007 and 2006,
respectively, and decreased by $1.5 billion in 2005. Changes over the three-year
period were largely attributable to net earnings, partially offset by dividends
declared of $11.7 billion, $10.7 billion and $9.6 billion in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. In 2007, we purchased $13.9 billion of GE stock (357.9
million shares) and in 2006, we purchased $7.8 billion of GE stock (229.4
million shares) under our share repurchase programs. Currency translation
adjustments increased equity by $4.5 billion in 2007 and $3.6 billion in 2006,
compared with a $4.3 billion decrease in 2005. Changes in currency translation
adjustments reflect the effects of changes in currency exchange rates on our net
investment in non-U.S. subsidiaries that have functional currencies other than
the U.S. dollar. During 2007 and 2006, the U.S. dollar weakened against the
pound sterling and euro, after strengthening in 2005. The U.S. dollar was also
weaker against the Japanese yen in 2007, after strengthening in 2006 and 2005.
See note 22. 

Overview
of Our Cash Flow from 2005 through 2007 

GE
cash from operating activities (CFOA) is a useful measure of performance for our
non-financial businesses and totaled $23.3 billion in 2007, $23.8 billion in
2006 and $19.9 billion in 2005. Generally, factors that affect our earnings
 -  for example,
pricing, volume, costs and productivity  -  affect CFOA
similarly. However, while management of working capital, including timing of
collections and payments and levels of inventory, affects operating results only
indirectly, the effect of these programs on CFOA can be
significant. 

Our
GE Statement of Cash Flows shows CFOA in the required format. While that display
is of some use in analyzing how various assets and liabilities affected our
year-end cash positions, we believe that it is also useful to supplement that
display and to examine in a broader context the business activities that provide
and require cash. 

The
most significant source of cash in CFOA is customer-related activities, the
largest of which is collecting cash following a product or services sale. GE
operating cash collections increased by $12.2 billion in 2007 and $9.8 billion
in 2006. These increases are consistent with the changes in comparable GE
operating segment revenues, comprising Healthcare, NBC Universal, Industrial and
the industrial businesses of the Infrastructure segment. Analyses of operating
segment revenues discussed in the preceding Segment Operations section is the
best way of understanding their customer-related CFOA. 

The
most significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, tax
authorities and others for the wide range of materials and services necessary in
a diversified global organization. GE operating cash payments increased by $10.2
billion in 2007 and by $7.9 billion in 2006, comparable to the increases in GE
total costs and expenses. 

Dividends
from GECS represented distribution of a portion of GECS retained earnings,
including proceeds from certain business sales, and are distinct from cash from
continuing operating activities within the financial services businesses, which
increased in 2007 by $4.6 billion to $26.4 billion, following an increase of
$2.9 billion in 2006. The amount we show in CFOA is the total dividend,
including the normal dividend as well as any special dividends from excess
capital primarily resulting from GECS business sales. 

Based
on past performance and current expectations, in combination with the financial
flexibility that comes with a strong balance sheet and the highest credit
ratings, we believe that we are in a sound position to grow dividends, continue
making selective investments for long-term growth and execute our newly
authorized three-year $15 billion share repurchase program. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 56 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Contractual
Obligations 

As
defined by reporting regulations, our contractual obligations for future
payments as of December 31, 2007, follow. 

(a) 

Included
      all take-or-pay arrangements, capital expenditures, contractual
      commitments to purchase equipment that will be leased to others, software
      acquisition/license commitments, contractual minimum programming
      commitments and any contractually required cash payments for
      acquisitions. 

(b) 

Excluded
      funding commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business by our
      financial services businesses. Further information on these commitments
      and other guarantees is provided in note 28. 

(c) 

Included
      guaranteed investment contracts, structured settlements and single premium
      immediate annuities based on scheduled payouts, as well as those contracts
      with reasonably determinable cash flows such as deferred annuities,
      universal life, term life, long-term care, whole life and other life
      insurance contracts. 

(d) 

Included
      an estimate of future expected funding requirements related to our pension
      and postretirement benefit plans and included liabilities for unrecognized
      tax benefits. Because their future cash outflows are uncertain, the
      following non-current liabilities are excluded from the table above:
      deferred taxes, derivatives, deferred revenue and other sundry items. See
      notes 20 and 26 for further information on certain of these
      items. 

(e) 

Included
      payments for other liabilities. 

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements 

Our
securitization activity is primarily transacted through special purpose vehicles
funded in the asset-backed commercial paper and term bond markets. The assets
that we securitize include receivables secured by equipment, commercial and
residential real estate, credit card receivables, trade receivables and other
assets originated and underwritten by us in the normal course of business. At
December 31, 2007, off-balance sheet securitization entities held $55.1
billion in financial assets, up $9.0 billion during the year. Assets held by
these entities are underwritten based on the same criteria as our on-book
assets. We monitor the underlying credit quality in accordance with our
servicing role and apply rigorous controls to the execution of securitization.
Based on our experience, we believe that, under any plausible future economic
scenario, the likelihood is remote that the financial support arrangement we
provide to securitization entities could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position or results of operations. Investors in these entities usually
have recourse to the underlying assets. In addition, we provide credit
enhancements, most often by retaining a subordinated interest; the carrying
value of our retained interests was $5.8 billion at December 31, 2007, up
$1.1 billion during the year. We recognized impairment losses on retained
interests of $0.1 billion in 2007, primarily at Commercial Finance. Impairment
losses on retained interests in 2006 were insignificant. Investments in retained
interests at GE Money also decreased by $0.1 billion during 2007, reflecting
declines in fair value accounted for in accordance with a new accounting
standard that became effective at the beginning of 2007. We have also entered
into other various credit enhancement positions with these securitization
entities, including liquidity and credit support agreements and guarantee and
reimbursement contracts, and have provided our best estimate of the fair value
of estimated losses on such positions. The estimate of fair value is based on
prevailing market conditions at December 31, 2007. Should market conditions
deteriorate, actual losses could be higher. Our exposure to loss under such
agreements was limited to $2.8 billion at December 31, 2007. 

Debt
Instruments, Guarantees and Covenants 

The
major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate the debt of GE, GECS and GE
Capital, the major borrowing affiliate of GECS. These agencies have given the
highest debt ratings to GE and GE Capital (long-term rating AAA/Aaa; short-term
rating A - 1+/P - 1). One of our
strategic objectives is to maintain these ratings, as they serve to lower our
cost of funds and to facilitate our access to a variety of lenders. We manage
our businesses in a fashion that is consistent with maintaining these
ratings. 

GE,
GECS and GE Capital have distinct business characteristics that the major debt
rating agencies evaluate both quantitatively and qualitatively. 

Quantitative
measures include: 

Earnings
      and profitability, revenue growth, the breadth and diversity of sources of
      income and return on assets 

Asset
      quality, including delinquency and write-off ratios and reserve
      coverage 

Funding
      and liquidity, including cash generated from operating activities,
      leverage ratios such as debt-to-capital, market access, back-up liquidity
      from banks and other sources, composition of total debt and interest
      coverage 

Capital
      adequacy, including required capital and tangible leverage
      ratios 

Qualitative
measures include: 

Franchise
      strength, including competitive advantage and market conditions and
      position 

Strength
      of management, including experience, corporate governance and strategic
      thinking 

Financial
      reporting quality, including clarity, completeness and transparency of all
      financial performance
communications 

GE
Capital s ratings are supported contractually by a GE commitment to maintain the
ratio of earnings to fixed charges at a specified level as described
below. 

During
2007, GECS paid $2.4 billion of special dividends to GE, which were funded by
the proceeds of the sale of Swiss Re common stock and GE Life. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 57 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

During
2007, GECS and GECS affiliates issued $84.6 billion of senior, unsecured
long-term debt and $5.7 billion of subordinated debt. This debt was both fixed
and floating rate and was issued to institutional and retail investors in the
U.S. and 17 other global markets. Maturities for these issuances ranged from one
to 60 years. We used the proceeds primarily for repayment of maturing long-term
debt, but also to fund acquisitions and organic growth. We anticipate that we
will issue approximately $80 billion of long-term debt during 2008. The ultimate
amount we issue will depend on our needs and on market conditions. 

We
target a ratio for commercial paper not to exceed 35% of outstanding debt based
on the anticipated composition of our assets and the liquidity profile of our
debt. GE Capital is the most widely held name in global commercial paper
markets. 

We
continue to believe that alternative sources of liquidity are sufficient to
permit an orderly transition from commercial paper in the unlikely event of
impaired access to those markets. Funding sources on which we would rely would
depend on the nature of such a hypothetical event, but include $64.8 billion of
contractually committed lending agreements with 72 highly-rated global banks and
investment banks. Total credit lines extending beyond one year increased $5.0
billion to $64.8 billion at December 31, 2007. See note 17. 

Beyond
contractually committed lending agreements, other sources of liquidity include
medium and long-term funding, monetization, asset securitization, cash receipts
from our lending and leasing activities, short-term secured funding on global
assets and potential sales of other assets. 

PRINCIPAL DEBT CONDITIONS  are
described below. 

The
following conditions relate to GE and GECS: 

Swap,
      forward and option contracts are required to be executed under standard
      master-netting agreements containing mutual downgrade provisions that
      provide the ability of the counterparty to require assignment or
      termination if the long-term credit rating of either GE or GECS were to
      fall below A - /A3. Our
      related obligation, net of master-netting agreements would have been $3.4
      billion at December 31, 2007. 

In
      connection with certain subordinated debentures for which GECS receives
      equity credit by rating agencies, GE has agreed to forego dividends,
      distributions or other payments from GECS during events of default or
      interest extensions under such subordinated debentures. There were $8.1
      billion of such debentures outstanding at December 31,
      2007. 

The
following conditions relate to consolidated entities. 

If
      the short-term credit rating of GE Capital or certain consolidated
      entities discussed further in note 27 were to be reduced below A - 1/P - 1, GE Capital
      would be required to provide substitute liquidity for those entities or
      provide funds to retire the outstanding commercial paper. The maximum net
      amount that GE Capital would be required to provide in the event of such a
      downgrade is determined by contract, and amounted to $7.2 billion at
      January 1, 2008. 

One
      group of consolidated entities holds high quality investment securities
      funded by the issuance of GICs. If the long-term credit rating of GE
      Capital were to fall below AA - /Aa3 or its
      short-term credit rating were to fall below A - 1+/P - 1, GE Capital
      could be required to provide up to $6.2 billion of capital to such
      entities. 

In
our history, we have never violated any of the above conditions at GE, GECS or
GE Capital. We believe that under any reasonable future economic developments,
the likelihood that any such arrangements could have a significant effect on our
operations, cash flows or financial position is remote. 

Critical
Accounting Estimates 

Accounting
estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider
to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because
they inherently involve significant judgments and uncertainties. For all of
these estimates, we caution that future events rarely develop exactly as
forecast, and the best estimates routinely require adjustment. Also see note 1,
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which discusses the significant
accounting policies that we have selected from acceptable
alternatives. 

LOSSES ON FINANCING
RECEIVABLES  are recognized when they are incurred, which requires us to
make our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Such
estimate requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for
current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant
observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency
rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral
values, and the present and expected future levels of interest rates. Our risk
management process, which includes standards and policies for reviewing major
risk exposures and concentrations, ensures that relevant data are identified and
considered either for individual loans or financing leases, or on a portfolio
basis, as appropriate. 

Our
lending and leasing experience and the extensive data we accumulate and analyze
facilitate estimates that have proven reliable over time. Our actual loss
experience was in line with expectations for 2007, 2006 and 2005. While
Commercial Finance continues to experience strong credit quality, we currently
expect higher delinquencies in the GE Money U.S. portfolio. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 58 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Further
information is provided in the Financial Resources and Liquidity  -  Financing
Receivables section, the Asset Impairment section that follows and in notes 1,
12 and 13. 

REVENUE RECOGNITION ON LONG-TERM
AGREEMENTS  to provide product services (product services agreements)
requires estimates of profits over the multiple-year terms of such agreements,
considering factors such as the frequency and extent of future monitoring,
maintenance and overhaul events; the amount of personnel, spare parts and other
resources required to perform the services; and future billing rate and cost
changes. We routinely review estimates under product services agreements and
regularly revise them to adjust for changes in outlook. We also regularly assess
customer credit risk inherent in the carrying amounts of receivables and
contract costs and estimated earnings, including the risk that contractual
penalties may not be sufficient to offset our accumulated investment in the
event of customer termination. We gain insight into future utilization and cost
trends, as well as credit risk, through our knowledge of the installed base of
equipment and the close interaction with our customers that comes with supplying
critical services and parts over extended periods. Revisions that affect a
product services agreement s total estimated profitability result in an
immediate adjustment of earnings; such adjustments increased earnings by $0.3
billion, $0.7 billion and $0.4 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We
provide for probable losses. 

Carrying
amounts for product services agreements in progress at December 31, 2007
and 2006, were $5.5 billion and $4.8 billion, respectively, and are included in
the line,  Contract costs and estimated earnings  in note 16. 

Further
information is provided in note 1. 

ASSET IMPAIRMENT  assessment
involves various estimates and assumptions as follows: 

INVESTMENTS.  We regularly
review investment securities for impairment based on both quantitative and
qualitative criteria that include the extent to which cost exceeds market value,
the duration of that market decline, our intent and ability to hold to maturity
or until forecasted recovery, and the financial health of and specific prospects
for the issuer. We perform comprehensive market research and analysis and
monitor market conditions to identify potential impairments. 

At
December 31, 2007, our investment in preferred and common stock, $0.3 billion
and $0.1 billion, respectively, of FGIC Corporation (FGIC), a monoline credit
insurer, was accounted for on the cost method and was in an insignificant
unrealized loss position. See note 16. During 2008, credit rating agencies
downgraded FGIC; following the downgrades, various alternative outcomes were
possible. We continue to monitor this investment closely, including review for
impairment. 

Further
information about actual and potential impairment losses is provided in the
Financial Resources and Liquidity  -  Investment
Securities section and in notes 1, 9 and 16. 

LONG-LIVED ASSETS.  We review
long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining
whether an impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and
assumptions, including determining which undiscounted cash flows are directly
related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows
will occur, their amount, and the asset s residual value, if any. In turn,
measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which
is based on the best information available. We derive the required undiscounted
cash flow estimates from our historical experience and our internal business
plans. To determine fair value, we use our internal cash flow estimates
discounted at an appropriate interest rate, quoted market prices when available
and independent appraisals, as appropriate. 

Commercial
aircraft are a significant concentration of assets in Infrastructure, and are
particularly subject to market fluctuations. Therefore, we test recoverability
of each aircraft in our operating lease portfolio at least annually.
Additionally, we perform quarterly evaluations in circumstances such as when
aircraft are re-leased, current lease terms have changed or a specific lessee s
credit standing changes. We consider market conditions, such as the continued
global shortage of commercial aircraft. Estimates of future rentals and residual
values are based on historical experience and information received routinely
from independent appraisers. Estimated cash flows from future leases are reduced
for expected downtime between leases and for estimated technical costs required
to prepare aircraft to be redeployed. Fair value used to measure impairment is
based on current market values from independent appraisers. 

We
recognized impairment losses on our operating lease portfolio of commercial
aircraft of $0.1 billion in 2007 and 2006. Provisions for losses on financing
receivables related to commercial aircraft were insignificant in 2007 and
2006. 

Further
information on impairment losses and our exposure to the commercial aviation
industry is provided in the Operations  -  Overview section
and in notes 14 and 28. 

REAL ESTATE.  We review our
real estate investment portfolio for impairment regularly or when events or
circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Our portfolio is diversified, both geographically and by asset type. However,
the global real estate market is subject to periodic cycles that can cause
significant fluctuations in market values. While the current estimated value of
our Commercial Finance Real Estate investments exceeds our carrying value by
about $3 billion, the same as last year, downward cycles could adversely affect
our ability to realize these gains in an orderly fashion in the future and may
necessitate recording impairments. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 59 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

GOODWILL AND OTHER IDENTIFIED
INTANGIBLE ASSETS.  We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever
events or circumstances make it more likely than not that an impairment may have
occurred, such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a
decision to sell or dispose all or a portion of a reporting unit. Determining
whether an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective
reporting unit, which we estimate using a discounted cash flow method. For
financial services reporting units, these cash flows are reduced for estimated
interest costs. Also, when determining the amount of goodwill to be allocated to
a business disposition for a financial services business, we reduce the cash
proceeds we receive from the sale by the amount of debt which is allocated to
the sold business in order to be consistent with the reporting unit valuation
methodology. When available and as appropriate, we use comparative market
multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. In applying this
methodology, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results,
future business plans, economic projections and market data. 

If
this analysis indicates goodwill is impaired, measuring the impairment requires
a fair value estimate of each identified tangible and intangible asset. In this
case, we supplement the cash flow approach discussed above with independent
appraisals, as appropriate. 

We
test other identified intangible assets with defined useful lives and subject to
amortization by comparing the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash
flows expected to be generated by the asset. We test intangible assets with
indefinite lives annually for impairment using a fair value method such as
discounted cash flows. For our insurance activities remaining in continuing
operations, we periodically test for impairment our deferred acquisition costs
and present value of future profits. 

Further
information is provided in the Financial Resources and Liquidity  -  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets section and in notes 1 and 15. 

PENSION ASSUMPTIONS  are
significant inputs to the actuarial models that measure pension benefit
obligations and related effects on operations. Two assumptions  -  discount rate and
expected return on assets  -  are important
elements of plan expense and asset/liability measurement. We evaluate these
critical assumptions at least annually on a plan and country-specific basis. We
periodically evaluate other assumptions involving demographic factors, such as
retirement age, mortality and turnover, and update them to reflect our
experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given year
will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other
factors. 

Accumulated
and projected benefit obligations are expressed as the present value of future
cash payments. We discount those cash payments using the weighted average of
market-observed yields for high quality fixed income securities with maturities
that correspond to the payment of benefits. Lower discount rates increase
present values and subsequent-year pension expense; higher discount rates
decrease present values and subsequent-year pension expense. 

Our
discount rates for principal pension plans at December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005 were 6.34%, 5.75% and 5.50%, respectively, reflecting market interest
rates. 

To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we
consider the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and
expected returns on various categories of plan assets. Assets in our principal
pension plans earned 13.6% in 2007, and had average annual earnings of 14.9%,
9.2% and 12.2% per year in the five-, 10- and 25-year periods ended December 31,
2007, respectively. We believe that these results, in connection with our
current and expected asset allocations, support our assumed long-term return of
8.5% on those assets. 

At
December 31, 2007, our principal pension plans had $1.0 billion of exposure to
subprime credit, a majority of which related to residential mortgage-backed
securities receiving credit ratings of Double A or better from the major rating
agencies. Monolines insured $0.5 billion, including $0.1 billion of residential
mortgage-backed securities. Our subprime investment securities were
collateralized primarily by pools of individual, direct mortgage loans, not
other structured products such as collateralized debt obligations. 

Sensitivity
to changes in key assumptions for our principal pension plans
follows. 

Discount
      rate  -  A
      25 basis point increase in discount rate would decrease pension cost in
      the following year by $0.2 billion. 

Expected
      return on assets  -  A 50 basis
      point increase in the expected return on assets would decrease pension
      cost in the following year by $0.3
billion. 

Further
information on our pension plans is provided in the Operations  -  Overview section
and in note 6. 

INCOME TAXES . Our annual tax
rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities
available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are
complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective
governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining
our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions including evaluating
uncertainties under Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (FIN)
48,  Accounting for Uncertainty
in Income Taxes . We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the
balances as new information becomes available. Deferred income tax assets
represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in
future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of
these future tax deductions by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable
income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences,
forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These
sources of income inherently rely heavily on estimates. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 60 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

We
use our historical experience and our short and long-range business forecasts to
provide insight. Further, our global and diversified business portfolio gives us
the opportunity to employ various prudent and feasible tax planning strategies
to facilitate the recoverability of future deductions. Amounts recorded for
deferred tax assets related to non-U.S. net operating losses, net of valuation
allowance were $1.7 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Such year-end 2007 amounts are expected to be fully recoverable
within the applicable statutory expiration periods. To the extent we do not
consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a
valuation allowance is established. 

Further
information on income taxes is provided in the Operations  -  Overview section
and in notes 7 and 20. 

DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING.  We
use derivatives to manage a variety of risks, including risks related to
interest rates, foreign exchange and commodity prices. Accounting for
derivatives as hedges requires that, at inception and over the term of the
arrangement, the hedged item and related derivative meet the requirements for
hedge accounting. The rules and interpretations related to derivatives
accounting are complex. Failure to apply this complex guidance correctly will
result in all changes in the fair value of the derivative being reported in
earnings, without regard to the offsetting changes in the fair value of the
hedged item. 

In
evaluating whether a particular relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, we
first determine whether the relationship meets the strict criteria to qualify
for exemption from ongoing effectiveness testing. For a relationship that does
not meet these criteria, we test effectiveness at inception and quarterly
thereafter by determining whether changes in the fair value of the derivative
offset, within a specified range, changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
This test is conducted each reporting period. If fair value changes fail this
test, we discontinue applying hedge accounting to that relationship
prospectively. Fair values of both the derivative instrument and the hedged item
are calculated using internal valuation models incorporating market-based
assumptions, subject to third-party confirmation. 

At
December 31, 2007, derivative assets and liabilities were $3.6 billion and
$2.6 billion, respectively. Further information about our use of derivatives is
provided in notes 17, 22 and 26. 

OTHER LOSS CONTINGENCIES  are
recorded as liabilities when it is probable that a liability has been incurred
and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Disclosure is required when
there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will materially exceed
the recorded provision. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time
periods. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts that
often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties such as
regulators. 

Further
information is provided in notes 19 and 28. 

Other
Information 

New
Accounting Standards 

On
September 15, 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) 157,  Fair Value Measurements ,
which defines fair value, establishes a new framework for measuring that value
and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Broadly, SFAS 157 defines
fair value as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to
transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous
market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants on the measurement date. SFAS 157 established market or observable
inputs as the preferred source of values, followed by assumptions based on
hypothetical transactions in the absence of market inputs. SFAS 157 will
require, among other things, expanded disclosure about fair value measurements
that have a significant portion of the value determined using unobservable
inputs (level 3 measurements). The standard applies prospectively to new fair
value measurements performed after the required effective dates, which are as
follows: on January 1, 2008, the standard applied to our measurements of the
fair values of financial instruments and recurring fair value measurements of
non-financial assets and liabilities; on January 1, 2009, the standard will
apply to all remaining fair value measurements, including non-recurring
measurements of non-financial assets and liabilities such as measurement of
potential impairments of goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived
assets. It also will apply to fair value measurements of non-financial assets
acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. On January 18, 2008,
the FASB issued proposed FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 157-c,  Measuring   Liabilities   under Statement 157 , which
will modify the definition of fair value by requiring estimation of the proceeds
that would be received if the entity were to issue the liability at the
measurement date. Further revisions to the measurement guidance are possible and
we are monitoring emerging interpretations and developments. SFAS 157 will not
have a material effect on our earnings or financial position and will have no
effect on our cash flows. 

On
February 15, 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial
Assets and Financial Liabilities . Under this standard, we may elect to
report individual financial instruments and certain other items at fair value
with changes in value reported in operations. Once made, this election is
irrevocable for those items. SFAS 159 was effective for us on January 1, 2008,
and we made the election for $0.2 billion of assets. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 61 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

On
December 4, 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141R,  Business Combinations , which
we will adopt on January 1, 2009. This standard will significantly change the
accounting for business acquisitions both during the period of the acquisition
and in subsequent periods. Among the more significant changes in the accounting
for acquisitions are the following: 

Transaction
      costs will generally be expensed. Certain such costs are presently treated
      as costs of the acquisition. 

In-process
      research and development (IPR D) will be accounted for as an asset,
      with the cost recognized as the research and development is realized or
      abandoned. IPR D is presently expensed at the time of the
      acquisition. 

Contingencies,
      including contingent consideration, will generally be recorded at fair
      value with subsequent adjustments recognized in operations. Contingent
      consideration is presently accounted for as an adjustment of purchase
      price. 

Decreases
      in valuation allowances on acquired deferred tax assets will be recognized
      in operations. Such changes previously were considered to be subsequent
      changes in consideration and were recorded as decreases in
      goodwill. 

Generally,
the effects of SFAS 141R will depend on future acquisitions. 

On
December 4, 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in
Consolidated Financial Statements , an amendment of ARB No. 51, which we
will adopt on January 1, 2009. This standard will significantly change the
accounting and reporting related to noncontrolling interests in a consolidated
subsidiary. After adoption, noncontrolling interests ($8.0 billion and $7.5
billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively) will be classified as
shareowners  equity, a change from its current classification between
liabilities and shareowners  equity. Earnings attributable to minority interests
($0.9 billion in each of the most recent three years) will be included in net
earnings, although such earnings will continue to be deducted to measure
earnings per share. Purchases and sales of minority interests will be reported
in equity, deferring, perhaps permanently, our recognition of the economic gain
or loss on partial dispositions. Gains on sales of minority interests that would
not have been in net earnings under SFAS 160 amounted to $0.4 billion and $0.3
billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Selected
Financial Data 

The
facing page is divided into three sections: upper portion  -  consolidated data;
middle portion  -  GE data that
reflect various conventional measurements for such enterprises; and lower
portion  -  GECS
data that reflect key information pertinent to financial services
businesses. 

GE S TOTAL RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT  expenditures were $4.1 billion in 2007, compared with $3.5
billion and $3.2 billion in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2007, expenditures
from GE s own funds were $3.0 billion compared with $2.8 billion in 2006.
Expenditures funded by customers (mainly the U.S. government) were $1.1 billion
in 2007 and $0.7 billion in 2006. 

Expenditures
reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management
purposes, we consider amounts spent on product and services technology to
include our reported research and development expenditures, but also amounts for
improving our existing products and services, and the productivity of our plant,
equipment and processes. On this basis, our technology expenditures in 2007 were
$5.5 billion. 

GE S TOTAL BACKLOG  of firm
unfilled orders at the end of 2007 was $65.6 billion, an increase of 42% from
year-end 2006, reflecting increased demand at Infrastructure. Of the total
backlog, $49.4 billion related to products, of which 64% was scheduled for
delivery in 2008. Product services orders, included in this reported backlog for
only the succeeding 12 months, were $16.2 billion at the end of 2007. Orders
constituting this backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in
certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section for further
information. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 62 

Management's
Discussion and Analysis 

Selected
Financial Data 

Transactions
      between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated
      information. 

(a) 

Indicates
      terms are defined in the Glossary. 

(b) 

Excludes
      employees of Genworth in 2005 as a result of the third quarter
      deconsolidation. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 63 

Audited
Financial Statements 

Statement
of Earnings 

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity 

(a) 

The
      effect of the 2006 accounting change was previously included in the
      caption  Benefit plans  - 
      net.  

See
      accompanying notes. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 64 

Audited
Financial Statements 

Statement
of Earnings (Continued) 

In
the consolidating data on this page,  GE  means the basis of consolidation as
described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements;  GECS  means
General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated
companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
 General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 65 

Audited
Financial Statements 

Statement
of Financial Position 

The
sum of accumulated gains (losses) on investment securities, currency translation
adjustments, cash flow hedges and benefit plans constitutes  Accumulated
nonowner changes other than earnings,  as shown in note 22, and was $8,324
million and $3,254 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

See
accompanying notes. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 66 

Audited
Financial Statements 

Statement
of Financial Position (Continued) 

In
the consolidating data on this page,  GE  means the basis of consolidation as
described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements;  GECS  means
General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated
companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
 General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 67 

Audited
Financial Statements 

Statement
of Cash Flows 

See
accompanying notes. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 68 

Audited
Financial Statements 

Statement
of Cash Flows (Continued) 

In
the consolidating data on this page,  GE  means the basis of consolidation as
described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements;  GECS  means
General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated
companies. Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
 General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 69 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 1  

Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies 

Accounting
principles 

Our
financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). 

Consolidation 

Our
financial statements consolidate all of our affiliates  -  companies that we
control and in which we hold a majority voting interest. Associated companies
are companies that we do not control but over which we have significant
influence, most often because we hold a shareholder voting position of 20% to
50%. Results of associated companies are presented on a one-line basis.
Investments in and advances to associated companies are presented on a one-line
basis in the caption  All other assets  in our Statement of Financial Position,
net of allowance for losses that represents our best estimate of probable losses
inherent in such assets. 

Financial
statement presentation 

We
have reclassified certain prior-year amounts to conform to the current year s
presentation. 

Financial
data and related measurements are presented in the following
categories: 

GE  This represents the
      adding together of all affiliates other than General Electric Capital
      Services, Inc. (GECS), whose operations are presented on a one-line
      basis. 

GECS  This affiliate owns
      all of the common stock of General Electric Capital Corporation (GE
      Capital). GE Capital and its respective affiliates are consolidated in the
      accompanying GECS columns and constitute the majority of its
      business. 

CONSOLIDATED  This
      represents the adding together of GE and GECS, giving effect to the
      elimination of transactions between GE and
GECS. 

OPERATING SEGMENTS  These
      comprise our six businesses, focused on the broad markets they serve:
      Infrastructure, Commercial Finance, GE Money, Healthcare, NBC Universal
      and Industrial. For segment reporting purposes, certain GECS businesses
      including Aviation Financial Services, Energy Financial Services and
      Transportation Finance are reported in the Infrastructure segment because
      Infrastructure actively manages such businesses and reports their results
      for internal performance measurement purposes. During the fourth quarter
      of 2007, we transferred the Equipment Services business from the
      Industrial segment to the Commercial Finance segment, where a portion of
      the business is reported in Capital Solutions. Prior period information
      has been reclassified to be consistent with the current
      organization. 

Unless
otherwise indicated, information in these notes to consolidated financial
statements relates to continuing operations. Certain of our operations have been
presented as discontinued. See note 2. 

The
effects of translating to U.S. dollars the financial statements of non-U.S.
affiliates whose functional currency is the local currency are included in
shareowners  equity. Asset and liability accounts are translated at year-end
exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated at average rates for
the respective periods. 

Preparing
financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and
assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results
could differ from those estimates. 

Sales
of goods and services 

We
record all sales of goods and services only when a firm sales agreement is in
place, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered and collectibility
of the fixed or determinable sales price is reasonably assured. If customer
acceptance of goods is not assured, we record sales only upon formal customer
acceptance. 

Sales
of goods in the Industrial segment typically do not include multiple product
and/or services elements. In contrast, sales of goods in the Infrastructure and
Healthcare segments sometimes include multiple components. In such agreements,
the amount assigned to each component is based on the total price and the
undelivered component s objectively determined fair value, determined from
sources such as the separate selling price for that or a similar component or
from competitor prices for similar components. If fair value of the undelivered
component cannot be determined satisfactorily, we defer sales recognition until
it is delivered. When an undelivered performance obligation is inconsequential
or perfunctory, we recognize sales on the total contract and provide for the
cost of the unperformed obligation. 

Except
as otherwise noted, we do not provide for anticipated losses before we record
sales. We often sell consumer products, home videos and computer hardware and
software products with a right of return. We use our accumulated experience to
estimate and provide for such returns when we record the sale. Except for goods
sold under long-term agreements, we recognize sales of goods under the
provisions of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin
104,  Revenue Recognition
 (SAB 104). Among other things, we recognize such sales when we have no
risk of transit damage, a policy that in certain cases requires us to delay
recognition of otherwise qualified sales until the goods have been physically
delivered. 

We
account for revenue recognition on agreements for sales of goods and services
under power generation unit and uprate contracts; nuclear fuel assemblies;
larger oil drilling equipment projects; turbo-machinery unit contracts; military
development contracts; and long-term construction projects, including
construction of information technology systems in our Healthcare segment, under
AICPA Statement of Position (SOP) 81-1,  Accounting for Performance of
Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts . Under SOP 81-1,
we estimate total contract revenue net of price concessions as well as total
contract costs. For goods sold under power generation unit and uprate contracts,
nuclear fuel assemblies, turbo-machinery unit contracts and military development
contracts, we recognize sales as we complete major contract-specified
deliverables, 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 70 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

most
often when customers receive title to the goods or accept the services as
performed. For larger oil drilling equipment projects and long-term construction
projects, we recognize sales based on our progress towards contract completion
measured by actual costs incurred in relation to our estimate of total expected
costs. We measure SOP 81-1 revenues by applying our contract-specific estimated
margin rates to incurred costs. We routinely update our estimates of future
costs for agreements in process and report any cumulative effects of such
adjustments in current operations. We provide for any loss that we expect to
incur on these agreements when that loss is probable. 

We
recognize revenue upon delivery for sales of aircraft engines, military
propulsion equipment and related spare parts not sold under long-term product
services agreements. Delivery of large and small commercial engines, non-U.S.
military equipment and all related spare parts occurs on shipment; delivery of
military propulsion equipment sold to the U.S. Government or agencies thereof
occurs upon receipt of a Material Inspection and Receiving Report, DD Form 250.
Large commercial engines (CF6, CFM56, GE90, GEnx and GP7000) are complex
aerospace equipment manufactured to customer order under a variety of
sometimes-complex, long-term agreements. We measure sales of large commercial
engines by applying our contract-specific estimated margin rates to incurred
costs. We routinely update our estimates of future costs for large commercial
engine agreements in process and report any cumulative effects of such
adjustments in current operations. We measure revenue for small aircraft
engines, military propulsion equipment and spare parts not subject to long-term
product services agreements based on the specific contract on a
specifically-measured output basis, although no faster than ratably. We provide
for any loss that we expect to incur on these agreements when that loss is
probable; consistent with industry practice, for commercial engines, we make
such provision only if such losses are not recoverable from future highly
probable sales of spare parts for those engines. 

We
sell product services under long-term agreements in our Infrastructure segment,
principally Aviation, Energy and Transportation, where costs of performing
services are incurred on other than a straight-line basis. We also sell product
services in Healthcare, where such costs are expected to be on a straight-line
basis. All of these agreements are accounted for under FASB Technical Bulletin
(FTB) 90-1,  Accounting for
Separately Priced Extended Warranty and Product Maintenance Contracts .
For the Infrastructure FTB 90-1 agreements, we recognize related sales based on
the extent of our progress towards completion measured by actual costs incurred
in relation to total expected costs. We routinely update our estimates of future
costs for agreements in process and report any cumulative effects of such
adjustments in current operations. For the Healthcare FTB 90-1 agreements, we
recognize revenues on a straight-line basis and expense related costs as
incurred. We provide for any loss that we expect to incur on any of these
agreements when that loss is probable. 

NBC
Universal records broadcast and cable television and Internet advertising sales
when advertisements are aired, net of provision for any viewer shortfalls (make
goods). We record sales from theatrical distribution of films as the films are
exhibited; sales of home videos, net of a return provision, when the videos are
delivered to and available for sale by retailers; fees from cable/satellite
operators when services are provided; and licensing of film and television
programming when we make the material available for airing. 

GECS
revenues from services (earned income) 

We
use the interest method to recognize income on all loans. Interest on loans
includes origination, commitment and other non-refundable fees related to
funding (recorded in earned income on the interest method). We stop accruing
interest at the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes
doubtful or the account becomes 90 days past due. We recognize interest income
on nonearning loans either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as
conditions warrant. We resume accruing interest on nonearning, non-restructured
commercial loans only when (a) payments are brought current according to the
loan s original terms and (b) future payments are reasonably assured. When we
agree to restructured terms with the borrower, we resume accruing interest only
when reasonably assured that we will recover full contractual payments, and such
loans pass underwriting reviews equivalent to those applied to new loans. We
resume accruing interest on nonearning consumer loans when the customer s
account is less than 90 days past due. 

We
recognize financing lease income on the interest method to produce a level yield
on funds not yet recovered. Estimated unguaranteed residual values at the date
of lease inception represent our initial estimates of the fair value of the
leased assets at the expiration of the lease and are based primarily on
independent appraisals, which are updated periodically. Guarantees of residual
values by unrelated third parties are considered part of minimum lease payments.
Significant assumptions we use in estimating residual values include estimated
net cash flows over the remaining lease term, anticipated results of future
remarketing, and estimated future component part and scrap metal prices,
discounted at an appropriate rate. 

We
recognize operating lease income on a straight-line basis over the terms of
underlying leases. 

Fees
include commitment fees related to loans that we do not expect to fund and
line-of-credit fees. We record these fees in earned income on a straight-line
basis over the period to which they relate. We record syndication fees in earned
income at the time related services are performed, unless significant
contingencies exist. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 71 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Depreciation
and amortization 

The
cost of GE manufacturing plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated
economic life. U.S. assets are depreciated using an accelerated method based on
a sum-of-the-years digits formula; non-U.S. assets are depreciated on a
straight-line basis. 

The
cost of GECS equipment leased to others on operating leases is amortized on a
straight-line basis to estimated residual value over the lease term or over the
estimated economic life of the equipment. 

The
cost of individually significant customer relationships is amortized in
proportion to estimated total related sales; cost of other intangible assets is
amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset s estimated economic life. We
review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
See notes 14 and 15. 

NBC
Universal film and television costs 

We
defer film and television production costs, including direct costs, production
overhead, development costs and interest. We do not defer costs of exploitation,
which principally comprise costs of film and television program marketing and
distribution. We amortize deferred film and television production costs, as well
as associated participation and residual costs, on an individual production
basis using the ratio of the current period s gross revenues to estimated total
remaining gross revenues from all sources; we state such costs at the lower of
amortized cost or fair value. Estimates of total revenues and costs are based on
anticipated release patterns, public acceptance and historical results for
similar products. We defer the costs of acquired broadcast material, including
rights to material for use on NBC Universal s broadcast and cable/satellite
television networks, at the earlier of acquisition or when the license period
begins and the material is available for use. We amortize acquired broadcast
material and rights when we broadcast the associated programs; we state such
costs at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. 

Losses
on financing receivables 

Our
allowance for losses on financing receivables represents our best estimate of
probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Our method of calculating estimated
losses depends on the size, type and risk characteristics of the related
receivables. Write-offs are deducted from the allowance for losses and
subsequent recoveries are added. Impaired financing receivables are written down
to the extent that we judge principal to be uncollectible. 

Our
portfolio consists entirely of homogenous consumer loans and of commercial loans
and leases. The underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use to
provide for losses are continually updated to reflect our view of current
conditions. Changes in such estimates can significantly affect the allowance and
provision for losses. It is possible to experience credit losses that are
different from our current estimates. 

Our
consumer loan portfolio consists of smaller balance, homogenous loans including
card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases and residential
mortgages. We collectively evaluate each portfolio for impairment. The allowance
for losses on these receivables is established through a process that estimates
the probable losses inherent in the portfolio based upon statistical analyses of
portfolio data. These analyses include migration analysis, in which historical
delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current aging of the
portfolio, together with other analyses that reflect current trends and
conditions. We also consider overall portfolio indicators including nonearning
loans, trends in loan volume and lending terms, credit policies and other
observable environmental factors. 

We
write off unsecured closed-end installment loans at 120 days contractually past
due and unsecured open-ended revolving loans at 180 days contractually past due.
We write down consumer loans secured by collateral other than residential real
estate to the fair value of the collateral, less costs to sell, when such loans
are 120 days past due. Consumer loans secured by residential real estate (both
revolving and closed-end loans) are written down to the fair value of
collateral, less costs to sell, no later than when they become 360 days past
due. During 2007, we conformed our reserving methodology in our residential
mortgage loan portfolios. Unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy are written off
within 60 days of notification of filing by the bankruptcy court or within
contractual write-off periods, whichever occurs earlier. 

Our
commercial loan and lease portfolio consists of a variety of loans and leases,
including both larger balance, non-homogenous loans and leases and smaller
balance homogenous commercial and equipment loans and leases. Losses on such
loans and leases are recorded when probable and estimable. We routinely survey
our entire portfolio for potential specific credit or collection issues that
might indicate an impairment. For larger balance, non-homogenous loans and
leases, this survey first considers the financial status, payment history,
collateral value, industry conditions and guarantor support related to specific
customers. Any delinquencies or bankruptcies are indications of potential
impairment requiring further assessment of collectibility. We routinely receive
financial as well as rating agency reports on our customers, and we elevate for
further attention those customers whose operations we judge to be marginal or
deteriorating. We also elevate customers for further attention when we observe a
decline in collateral values for asset-based loans. While collateral values are
not always available, when we observe such a decline, we evaluate relevant
markets to assess recovery alternatives - for example, for
real estate loans, relevant markets are local; for aircraft loans, relevant
markets are global. We provide allowances based on our evaluation of all
available information, including expected future cash flows, fair value of
collateral, net of disposal costs, and the secondary market value of the
financing receivables. After providing for specific incurred losses, we then
determine an allowance for losses that have been incurred in the balance of the
portfolio but cannot yet be identified to a specific loan or lease. This
estimate is based on historical and projected default rates and loss severity,
and it is prepared by each respective line of business. 

Experience
is not available with new products; therefore, while we are developing that
experience, we set loss allowances based on our experience with the most closely
analogous products in our portfolio. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 72 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

When
we repossess collateral in satisfaction of a loan, we write down the receivable
against the allowance for losses. Repossessed collateral is included in the
caption  All other assets  in the Statement of Financial Position and carried at
the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. 

The
remainder of our commercial loans and leases are portfolios of smaller balance
homogenous commercial and equipment positions that we evaluate collectively by
portfolio for impairment based upon various statistical analyses considering
historical losses and aging. 

Partial
sales of business interests 

We
record gains or losses on sales of their own shares by affiliates except when
realization of gains is not reasonably assured, in which case we record the
results in shareowners  equity. We record gains or losses on sales of interests
in commercial and military engine and turbo-machinery equipment
programs. 

Cash
and equivalents 

Debt
securities with original maturities of three months or less are included in cash
equivalents unless designated as available-for-sale and classified as investment
securities. 

Investment
securities 

We
report investments in debt and marketable equity securities, and equity
securities in our insurance portfolio, at fair value based on quoted market
prices or, if quoted prices are not available, discounted expected cash flows
using market rates commensurate with the credit quality and maturity of the
investment. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment
securities are included in shareowners  equity, net of applicable taxes and
other adjustments. We regularly review investment securities for impairment
based on both quantitative and qualitative criteria that include the extent to
which cost exceeds market value, the duration of that market decline, our intent
and ability to hold to maturity or until forecasted recovery, and the financial
health of and specific prospects for the issuer. Unrealized losses that are
other than temporary are recognized in earnings. Realized gains and losses are
accounted for on the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses
on investment securities classified as trading and certain retained interests
are included in earnings. 

Inventories 

All
inventories are stated at the lower of cost or realizable values. Cost for a
significant portion of GE U.S. inventories is determined on a last-in, first-out
(LIFO) basis. Cost of other GE inventories is determined on a first-in,
first-out (FIFO) basis. LIFO was used for 56% and 49% of GE inventories at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. GECS inventories consist of finished
products held for sale; cost is determined on a FIFO basis. 

Intangible
assets 

We
do not amortize goodwill, but test it annually for impairment using a fair value
approach at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment,
or a business one level below that operating segment (the component level) if
discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment
management. However, components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if
they have similar economic characteristics. We recognize an impairment charge
for any amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit s goodwill
exceeds its fair value. We use discounted cash flows to establish fair values.
When available and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to
corroborate discounted cash flow results. When all or a portion of a reporting
unit is disposed of, goodwill is allocated to the gain or loss on disposition
using the relative fair value method. 

We
amortize the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives unless
such lives are deemed indefinite. The cost of intangible assets is amortized on
a straight-line basis over the asset s estimated economic life, except that
individually significant customer-related intangible assets are amortized in
relation to total related sales. Amortizable intangible assets are tested for
impairment based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, written down to
fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Intangible
assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and written down
to fair value as required. 

GECS
investment contracts, insurance liabilities and insurance annuity
benefits 

Certain
entities, which we consolidate, provide guaranteed investment contracts to
states, municipalities and municipal authorities. 

Our
insurance activities also include providing insurance and reinsurance for life
and health risks and providing certain annuity products. Three product groups
are provided: traditional insurance contracts, investment contracts and
universal life insurance contracts. Insurance contracts are contracts with
significant mortality and/or morbidity risks, while investment contracts are
contracts without such risks. Universal life insurance contracts are a
particular type of long-duration insurance contract whose terms are not fixed
and guaranteed. 

For
short-duration insurance contracts, including accident and health insurance, we
report premiums as earned income over the terms of the related agreements,
generally on a pro-rata basis. For traditional long-duration insurance contracts
including term, whole life and annuities payable for the life of the annuitant,
we report premiums as earned income when due. 

Premiums
received on investment contracts (including annuities without significant
mortality risk) and universal life contracts are not reported as revenues but
rather as deposit liabilities. We recognize revenues for charges and assessments
on these contracts, mostly for mortality, contract initiation, administration
and surrender. Amounts credited to policyholder accounts are charged to
expense. 

Liabilities
for traditional long-duration insurance contracts represent the present value of
such benefits less the present value of future net premiums based on mortality,
morbidity, interest and other assumptions at the time the policies were issued
or acquired. Liabilities for investment contracts and universal life policies
equal the account value, that is, the amount that accrues to the benefit of the
contract or policyholder including credited interest and assessments through the
financial statement date. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 73 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Liabilities
for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses represent our best estimate of
the ultimate obligations for reported and incurred-but-not-reported claims and
the related estimated claim settlement expenses. Liabilities for unpaid claims
and claims adjustment expenses are continually reviewed and adjusted through
current operations. 

Accounting
changes 

On
January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation (FIN) 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes , and FASB Staff Position (FSP) FAS 13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected
Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a
Leveraged Lease Transaction . Among other things, FIN 48 requires
application of a  more likely than not  threshold to the recognition and
derecognition of tax positions. FSP FAS 13-2 requires recalculation of returns
on leveraged leases when there is a change in the timing or projected timing of
cash flows relating to income taxes associated with such leases. The January 1,
2007, transition reduced our retained earnings by $126 million, $49 million
associated with FIN 48 and $77 million with FSP FAS 13-2. Of this total, $89
million was a decrease in goodwill and $77 million was a decrease in financing
receivables - net, partially
offset by a $40 million decrease in income tax liabilities. 

On
January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) 155,  Accounting for
Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments . This statement amended SFAS 133,
 Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities , as amended, to include within its
scope prepayment features in newly created or acquired retained interests
related to securitizations. SFAS 155 changed the basis on which we recognize
earnings on these retained interests from level yield to fair value. See notes 9
and 27. 

We
adopted SFAS 123 (Revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment 
(SFAS 123R) and related FSPs, effective January 1, 2006. Among other
things, SFAS 123R requires expensing the fair value of stock options, a
previously optional accounting method that we adopted voluntarily in 2002, and
classification of excess tax benefits associated with share-based compensation
deductions as cash from financing activities rather than cash from operating
activities. We chose the modified prospective transition method, which requires
that the new guidance be applied to the unvested portion of all outstanding
stock option grants as of January 1, 2006, and to new grants after that date. We
further applied the alternative transition method provided in FSP
FAS 123(R)-3,  Transition
Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment
Awards . The transitional effects of SFAS 123R and related FSPs
consisted of a reduction in net earnings of $10 million for the year ended
December 31, 2006, to expense the unvested portion of options granted in 2001;
and classification of $173 million related to excess tax benefits from
share-based compensation deductions as cash from financing activities in our
Statement of Cash Flows beginning in 2006, which previously would have been
included in cash from operating activities. 

SFAS 158,
 Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans , became effective
for us as of December 31, 2006, and requires recognition of an asset or
liability in the statement of financial position reflecting the funded status of
pension and other postretirement benefit plans such as retiree health and life,
with current-year changes in the funded status recognized in shareowners 
equity. SFAS 158 did not change the existing criteria for measurement of
periodic benefit costs, plan assets or benefit obligations. The incremental
effect of the initial adoption of SFAS 158 reduced our shareowners  equity at
December 31, 2006, by $3,819 million. 

Note 2  

Discontinued
Operations 

We
classified our Japanese personal loan business (Lake), our U.S. mortgage
business (WMC), Plastics, Advanced Materials, GE Life, Genworth Financial, Inc.
(Genworth) and most of GE Insurance Solutions Corporation (GE Insurance
Solutions) as discontinued operations. Associated results of operations,
financial position and cash flows are separately reported for all periods
presented. 

WMC 

In
December 2007, we completed the sale of our U.S. mortgage business for $117
million in cash. In connection with the transaction, certain contractual
obligations and potential liabilities related to previously sold loans were
retained. We sold this business because of continued pressures in the U.S.
subprime mortgage industry. As a result, we recognized an after-tax loss of $62
million during 2007. WMC revenues from discontinued operations were ($1,424)
million, $536 million and $607 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In
total, WMC s loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $987 million
in 2007, compared with earnings of $29 million and $122 million in 2006 and
2005, respectively. 

Lake 

In
September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Lake business. We made the
decision to sell this business upon determining that, despite restructuring,
Japanese regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did
not permit us to earn an acceptable return. We are actively pursuing a buyer and
expect to complete the sale of this business by the end of the third quarter of
2008. In connection with this exit, we recorded an after-tax loss of $908
million in 2007, which represents the difference between the net book value of
our Lake business and the projected sale price. Lake revenues from discontinued
operations were $1,056 million, $1,440 million and $1,737 million in 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively. In total, Lake s loss from discontinued operations, net
of taxes, was $1,231 million in 2007, compared with earnings of $211 million and
$401 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Plastics
and Advanced Materials 

In
August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business to Saudi Basic
Industries Corporation for $11,577 million in cash. We sold this business
because of its cyclicality, rising costs of natural gas and raw materials, and
the decision to redeploy  

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 74 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

capital
resources into higher-growth businesses. Also, during the fourth quarter of
2006, we sold our Advanced Materials business. As a result of these sales, we
recognized after-tax gains of $1,578 million and $441 million during 2007 and
2006, respectively. Plastics and Advanced Materials revenues from discontinued
operations were $4,286 million, $8,795 million and $8,882 million in 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively. In total, GE Plastics and Advanced Materials earnings
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $1,867 million, $959 million
and $793 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

GE
Life 

In
December 2006, we completed the sale of GE Life, our U.K.-based life insurance
operation, to Swiss Reinsurance Company (Swiss Re) for $910 million. As a
result, we recognized after-tax losses of $3 million and $267 million during
2007 and 2006, respectively. GE Life revenues from discontinued operations were
$2,096 million and $2,286 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In total, GE
Life losses from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $3 million, $178
million and $28 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

GE
Insurance Solutions 

In
June 2006, we completed the sale of the property and casualty insurance and
reinsurance businesses and the European life and health operations of GE
Insurance Solutions to Swiss Re for $9,297 million, including the assumption of
$1,700 million of debt. We received $5,359 million in cash and $2,238 million of
newly issued Swiss Re common stock, representing a 9% interest in Swiss Re. As a
result of the exit, we recognized earnings of $16 million in 2007, compared with
losses of $134 million and $934 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. GE
Insurance Solutions revenues from discontinued operations were $2,815 million
and $7,451 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In total, GE Insurance
Solutions earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $15 million
and $148 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, compared with a loss of $2,850
million in 2005. 

Genworth 

In
March 2006, we completed the sale of our remaining 18% investment in Genworth
through a secondary public offering of 71 million shares of Class A Common Stock
and direct sale to Genworth of 15 million shares of Genworth Class B Common
Stock. As a result of initial and secondary public offerings, we recognized
after-tax gains of $85 million (primarily from a tax adjustment related to the
2004 initial public offering), $220 million and $552 million in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. Genworth revenues from discontinued operations were $5
million and $7,908 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In total, Genworth
earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $79 million, $193
million and $928 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Summarized
financial information for discontinued GE industrial operations is shown
below. 

Summarized
financial information for discontinued GECS operations is shown
below. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 75 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Assets
and liabilities at December 31, 2007, were primarily at our Lake
business. 

Note 3  

Other
Income 

Note 4  

GECS
Revenues from Services 

Note 5  

Supplemental
Cost Information 

Total
expenditures for research and development were $4,075 million, $3,480 million
and $3,235 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The portion we funded
was $3,009 million in 2007, $2,790 million in 2006 and $2,551 million in
2005. 

Rental
expense under operating leases is shown below. 

At
December 31, 2007, minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating
leases aggregated $2,647 million and $3,671 million for GE and GECS,
respectively. Amounts payable over the next five years follow. 

Payments
under revenue sharing partnerships amounted to $1.9 billion, $1.4 billion and
$1.2 billion in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and are included in cost of
goods sold. GE s selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $14,148
million in 2007, $12,893 million in 2006 and $12,316 million in
2005. 

Note 6  

Postretirement
Benefit Plans 

Retiree
Health and Life Benefits 

We
sponsor a number of retiree health and life insurance benefit plans (retiree
benefit plans). Principal retiree benefit plans are discussed below; other such
plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate. We use a December 31
measurement date for our plans. 

PRINCIPAL RETIREE BENEFIT
PLANS  provide health and life insurance benefits to certain employees who
retire under the GE Pension Plan with 10 or more years of service. Eligible
retirees share in the cost of healthcare benefits. These plans cover
approximately 235,000 retirees and dependents. 

COST
OF PRINCIPAL RETIREE BENEFIT PLANS 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 76 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS  are
described below .  The
discount rates at December 31 measured the year-end benefit obligations and the
earnings effects for the subsequent year. 

To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on retiree life plan assets, we
consider the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and
expected returns on various categories of plan assets. We apply our expected
rate of return to a market-related value of assets, which stabilizes variability
in the amounts to which we apply that expected return. 

We
amortize experience gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in
actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the
average future service of employees. 

FUNDING POLICY.  We fund
retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. We expect to contribute
approximately $700 million in 2008 to fund such benefits. We fund retiree life
insurance benefits at our discretion. 

Changes
in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for retiree benefit plans
follow. 

ACCUMULATED
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION (APBO) 

In
July 2007, we approved new four-year labor agreements that were negotiated with
and ratified by most of our U.S. unions. The agreements amended our retiree
health plans in several ways, including eliminating provisions limiting our
future contributions, increasing participants  lifetime maximum coverage,
increasing participant contributions and co-pays, and improving various other
benefits. 

A
one percentage point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have
the following effects. 

FAIR
VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS 

(a) 

Net
      of Medicare Part D subsidy. 

PLAN
ASSET ALLOCATION 

Plan
fiduciaries set investment policies and strategies for the trust and oversee its
investment allocation, which includes selecting investment managers and setting
long-term strategic targets. Long-term strategic investment objectives include
preserving the funded status of the plan and balancing risk and return. Target
allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and occasionally plan
fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target range. 

Trust
assets invested in short-term securities must generally be invested in
securities rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such securities that may be
rated A2/P2. GE common stock represented 5.9% and 6.1% of trust assets at
year-end 2007 and 2006, respectively, and is subject to a statutory limit at 10%
of total trust assets. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 77 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

RETIREE
BENEFIT ASSET (LIABILITY) 

(a) 

Fair
      value of assets less APBO, as shown in the preceding
    tables. 

In
2008, we estimate that we will amortize $675 million of prior service cost and
$40 million of net actuarial loss from shareowners  equity into retiree benefit
plans cost. Comparable amortized amounts in 2007 were $603 million cost and $17
million cost reduction, respectively. 

ESTIMATED
FUTURE BENEFIT PAYMENTS 

Pension
Benefits 

We
sponsor a number of pension plans. Principal pension plans, together with
affiliate and certain other pension plans (other pension plans) detailed in this
note, represent about 99% of our total pension assets. We use a December 31
measurement date for our plans. 

PRINCIPAL PENSION PLANS  are
the GE Pension Plan and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan. 

The
GE Pension Plan provides benefits to certain U.S. employees based on the greater
of a formula recognizing career earnings or a formula recognizing length of
service and final average earnings. Certain benefit provisions are subject to
collective bargaining. 

The
GE Supplementary Pension Plan is an unfunded plan providing supplementary
retirement benefits primarily to higher-level, longer-service U.S.
employees. 

OTHER PENSION PLANS  in 2007
included 29 U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans with pension assets or obligations
greater than $50 million. These defined benefit plans provide benefits to
employees based on formulas recognizing length of service and
earnings. 

PENSION
PLAN PARTICIPANTS 

COST
OF PENSION PLANS 

ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS  are
described below. The discount rates at December 31 measured the year-end benefit
obligations and the earnings effects for the subsequent year. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 78 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we
consider the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and
expected returns on various categories of plan assets. For the principal pension
plans, we apply our expected rate of return to a market-related value of assets,
which stabilizes variability in the amounts to which we apply that expected
return. 

We
amortize experience gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in
actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the
average future service of employees. 

FUNDING POLICY  for the GE
Pension Plan is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding
requirements as set forth in employee benefit and tax laws plus such additional
amounts as we may determine to be appropriate. We have not made contributions to
the GE Pension Plan since 1987 and will not make any such contributions in 2008.
In 2008, we expect to pay approximately $150 million for benefit payments under
our GE Supplementary Pension Plan and administrative expenses of our principal
pension plans and expect to contribute approximately $505 million to other
pension plans. In 2007, comparative amounts were $136 million and $730 million,
respectively. 

BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS  are
described in the following tables. Accumulated and projected benefit obligations
(ABO and PBO) represent the obligations of a pension plan for past service as of
the measurement date. ABO is the present value of benefits earned to date with
benefits computed based on current compensation levels. PBO is ABO increased to
reflect expected future compensation. 

PROJECTED BENEFIT
OBLIGATION 

ACCUMULATED
BENEFIT OBLIGATION 

PLANS
WITH ASSETS LESS THAN ABO 

(a) 

Primarily
      related to the GE Supplementary Pension
Plan. 

FAIR
VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS 

PLAN
ASSET ALLOCATION 

Plan
fiduciaries of the GE Pension Plan set investment policies and strategies for
the GE Pension Trust and oversee its investment allocation, which includes
selecting investment managers, commissioning periodic asset-liability studies
and setting long-term strategic targets. Long-term strategic investment
objectives include preserving the funded status of the plan and balancing risk
and return. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and
occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target
range. 

GE
Pension Trust assets are invested subject to the following additional
guidelines: 

Short-term
      securities must generally be rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such
      securities that may be rated
A2/P2. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 79 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Real
      estate investments may not exceed 25% of total
  assets. 

Investments
      in restricted securities that are not freely tradable may not exceed 20%
      of total assets (actual was 15% of trust assets at December 31,
      2007). 

At
December 31, 2007, GE Pension Trust assets included exposure to $975 million of
subprime residential mortgage-backed securities. A majority of these assets have
received credit ratings of Double A or better from the major rating agencies.
Our subprime investment securities were collateralized primarily by pools of
individual, direct mortgage loans, not other structured products such as
collateralized debt obligations. 

PENSION
ASSET (LIABILITY) 

(a) 

Fair
      value of assets less PBO, as shown in the preceding tables. 

(b) 

For
      principal pension plans, represents the GE Supplementary Pension Plan
      liability. 

In
2008, we estimate that we will amortize $325 million of prior service cost and
$225 million of net actuarial loss for the principal pension plans from
shareowners  equity into pension cost. For other pension plans, the estimated
prior service cost and net actuarial loss to be amortized over the next fiscal
year are $10 million and $70 million, respectively. Comparable amortized amounts
in 2007, respectively, were $241 million and $693 million for principal pension
plans and $6 million and $163 million for other pension plans. 

ESTIMATED
FUTURE BENEFIT PAYMENTS 

Postretirement
Benefit Plans 

2007
COST OF POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS AND CHANGES IN EQUITY OTHER THAN
TRANSACTIONS WITH SHAREOWNERS 

Note 7  

Provision
for Income Taxes 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 80 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

GE
and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. The GECS provision
for current tax expense includes its effect on the consolidated
return. 

Consolidated
U.S. earnings from continuing operations before income taxes were $8,840 million
in 2007, $9,954 million in 2006 and $10,296 million in 2005. The corresponding
amounts for non-U.S.-based operations were $17,758 million in 2007, $13,376
million in 2006 and $10,882 million in 2005. 

Consolidated
current tax expense includes amounts applicable to U.S. federal income taxes of
$87 million, $514 million and $2,755 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, and amounts applicable to non-U.S. jurisdictions of $3,029
million, $1,500 million and $1,910 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Consolidated deferred taxes related to U.S. federal income taxes were expenses
of $769 million and $1,544 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and a benefit
of $238 million in 2005. 

Deferred
income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as from
net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax
rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered.
Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes
payable on taxable income in future years. We evaluate the recoverability of
these future tax deductions by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable
income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences,
forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. To the
extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will
be recovered, a valuation allowance is established. See note 20. 

Our
businesses are subject to a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and foreign tax
laws and regulations. Changes to these laws or regulations may affect our tax
liability, return on investments and business operations. For example, GE s
effective tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and
indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S.
rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S.
tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial
services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a
dividend. This provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits
U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with foreign banks
and other foreign financial institutions in global markets. This provision,
which is scheduled to expire at the end of 2008, has been scheduled to expire on
four previous occasions, and each time it has been extended by Congress. If this
provision is not extended, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial
services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more
difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If
this provision were not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase
after 2010. 

We
have not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of non-U.S.
affiliates and associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely.
These earnings relate to ongoing operations and, at December 31, 2007, were
approximately $62 billion. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax
credits, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax
liability that would be payable if such earnings were not reinvested
indefinitely. Deferred taxes are provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates
and associated companies when we plan to remit those earnings. 

The
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) allowed U.S. companies a one-time
opportunity to repatriate non-U.S. earnings through 2005 at a 5.25% rate of tax
rather than the normal U.S. tax rate of 35%, provided that certain criteria,
including qualified U.S. reinvestment of those earnings, were met. Available
U.S. foreign tax credits related to the repatriation are reduced under
provisions of the Act. Because the vast majority of our non-U.S. earnings have
been permanently reinvested in active business operations, we repatriated only
$1.2 billion of non-U.S. earnings. Because a U.S. tax provision at normal tax
rates had been provided on the majority of this amount, the result was a
reduction of the 2005 consolidated tax rates of approximately 0.5 percentage
points. 

As
discussed in note 1, on January 1, 2007, we adopted a new accounting standard,
FIN 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes,  resulting in a $49 million decrease in
retained earnings, a $89 million decrease in goodwill and a $40 million decrease
in income tax liability. 

Annually,
we file over 6,500 income tax returns in over 250 global taxing jurisdictions.
We are under examination or engaged in tax litigation in many of these
jurisdictions. During 2007, the IRS completed the audit of our consolidated U.S.
income tax returns for 2000-2002. The IRS is currently auditing our consolidated
U.S. income tax returns for 2003-2005. In addition, certain other U.S. tax
deficiency issues and refund claims for previous years remain unresolved. It is
reasonably possible that the 2003-2005 U.S. audit cycle will be completed during
the next 12 months, which could result in a decrease in our balance of
 unrecognized tax benefits  - that is, the
aggregate tax effect of differences between tax return positions and the
benefits recognized in our financial statements. We believe that there are no
other jurisdictions in which the outcome of unresolved issues or claims is
likely to be material to our results of operations, financial position or cash
flows. We further believe that we have made adequate provision for all income
tax uncertainties. 

The
balance of unrecognized tax benefits, the amount of related interest and
penalties we have provided and what we believe to be the range of reasonably
possible changes in the next 12 months, were: 

(a) 

Some
      portion of such reduction might be reported as discontinued
      operations. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 81 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits
is as follows: 

We
classify interest on tax deficiencies as interest expense; we classify income
tax penalties as provision for income taxes. For the year ended December 31,
2007, $(279) million of interest expense and $(34) million of tax expense
related to penalties were recognized in the statement of
operations. 

A
reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the actual
income tax rate is provided below. 

RECONCILIATION
OF U.S. FEDERAL STATUTORY INCOME TAX RATE TO ACTUAL INCOME TAX RATE 

Note 8  

Earnings
Per Share Information 

(a) 

Included
      dividend equivalents of approximately $1 million in each of the three
      years ended December 31, 2007. 

(b) 

Included
      dilutive effects of subsidiary-issued stock-based awards of approximately
      $11 million in 2005. 

Earnings-per-share
amounts are computed independently for earnings from continuing operations,
earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the
sum of per-share amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations
may not equal the total per-share amounts for net earnings. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 82 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 9  

Investment
Securities 

Investment
securities comprise mainly investment-grade debt securities supporting
obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run-off insurance businesses
and holders of guaranteed investment contracts. 

(a) 

Substantially
      collateralized by U.S. mortgages. 

(b) 

Included
      $2,339 million of retained interests at December 31, 2007, accounted for
      in accordance with SFAS 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid
      Financial Instruments . See note 27. 

(c) 

Amortized
      cost and estimated fair value included $25 million of trading securities
      at December 31, 2007. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 83 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

The
following tables present the gross unrealized losses and estimated fair values
of our available-for-sale investment securities. 

At
December 31, 2007, we held mortgage-backed securities (MBS) and asset-backed
securities (ABS) with estimated fair values of $8,370 million and $2,221
million, respectively. Such amounts included unrealized losses of $274 million
and $89 million, respectively. These amounts excluded retained interests in
securitization entities. See note 27. Of the MBS amount, $5,474 million and
$2,896 million related to residential MBS and commercial MBS, respectively. At
December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1,635 million of exposure to subprime
credit supporting our guaranteed investment contracts, a majority of which
relates to residential MBS receiving credit ratings of Double A or better from
the major rating agencies. We presently intend to hold our investment securities
that are in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007, at least until we
can recover their respective amortized cost. We have the ability to hold our
debt securities until their maturities. Our subprime investment securities were
collateralized primarily by pools of individual, direct mortgage loans, not
other structured products such as collateralized debt obligations. 

CONTRACTUAL
MATURITIES OF GECS INVESTMENT IN AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE DEBT SECURITIES (EXCLUDING
MORTGAGE-BACKED AND ASSET-BACKED SECURITIES) 

We
expect actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities because borrowers
have the right to call or prepay certain obligations. 

Supplemental
information about gross realized gains and losses on available-for-sale
investment securities follows. 

In
the ordinary course of managing our investment securities portfolio, we may sell
securities prior to their maturities for a variety of reasons, including
diversification, credit quality, yield and liquidity requirements and the
funding of claims and obligations to policyholders. 

Proceeds
from investment securities sales amounted to $18,993 million, $12,394 million
and $14,047 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, principally from the
short-term nature of the investments that support the guaranteed investment
contracts portfolio and the 2007 sale of Swiss Re common stock. 

We
recognized pre-tax gains on trading securities of $292 million, $5 million and
$3 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Investments in retained
interests decreased by $106 million during 2007, reflecting declines in fair
value accounted for in accordance with SFAS 155. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 84 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 10  

Current
Receivables 

(a) 

Included
      GE industrial customer receivables factored through a GECS affiliate and
      reported as financing receivables by
GECS. 

GE
receivables balances at December 31, 2007 and 2006, before allowance for losses,
included $11,008 million and $8,845 million, respectively, from sales of goods
and services to customers, and $381 million and $175 million at December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, from transactions with associated
companies. 

GE
current receivables of $252 million and $248 million at December 31, 2007 and
2006, respectively, arose from sales, principally of Aviation goods and services
on open account to various agencies of the U.S. government, our largest single
customer. About 4% of our sales of goods and services were to the U.S.
government in 2007, 2006 and 2005. 

Note 11  

Inventories 

Note 12  

GECS
Financing Receivables (investments in loans and financing leases) 

Included
in the above are $9,708 million and $11,509 million of the financing receivables
of consolidated, liquidating securitization entities at December 31, 2007 and
2006, respectively. 

Details
of financing receivables  -  net
follow. 

(a) 

At
      December 31, 2007, net of credit insurance, approximately 26% of this
      portfolio comprised loans with introductory, below market rates that are
      scheduled to adjust at future dates; with high loan-to-value ratios at
      inception; whose terms permitted interest-only payments; or whose terms
      resulted in negative amortization. 

(b) 

Included
      loans and financing leases of $11,685 million and $11,165 million at
      December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to commercial aircraft
      at Aviation Financial Services and loans and financing leases of $7,898
      million and $7,574 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
      related to Energy Financial Services. 

(c) 

Included
      loans and financing leases of $5,106 million and $6,853 million at
      December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to certain consolidated,
      liquidating securitization
entities. 

GECS
financing receivables include both loans and financing leases. Loans represent
transactions in a variety of forms, including revolving charge and credit,
mortgages, installment loans, intermediate-term loans and revolving loans
secured by business assets. The portfolio includes loans carried at the
principal amount on which finance charges are billed periodically, and loans
carried at gross book value, which includes finance charges. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 85 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Investment
in financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged leases of
aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation equipment, data
processing equipment, medical equipment, commercial real estate and other
manufacturing, power generation, and commercial equipment and
facilities. 

For
federal income tax purposes, the leveraged leases and the majority of the direct
financing leases are leases in which GECS depreciates the leased assets and is
taxed upon the accrual of rental income. Certain direct financing leases are
loans for federal income tax purposes in which GECS is taxable only on the
portion of each payment that constitutes interest, unless the interest is
tax-exempt (e.g., certain obligations of state governments). 

Investment
in direct financing and leveraged leases represents net unpaid rentals and
estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment, less related
deferred income. GECS has no general obligation for principal and interest on
notes and other instruments representing third-party participation related to
leveraged leases; such notes and other instruments have not been included in
liabilities but have been offset against the related rentals receivable. The
GECS share of rentals receivable on leveraged leases is subordinate to the share
of other participants who also have security interests in the leased
equipment. 

For
federal income tax purposes, GECS is entitled to deduct the interest expense
accruing on nonrecourse financing related to leveraged leases. 

NET
INVESTMENT IN FINANCING LEASES 

CONTRACTUAL
MATURITIES 

We
expect actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities. 

Individually
 impaired  loans are defined by GAAP as larger balance or restructured loans for
which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement. An analysis of
impaired loans follows. 

(a) 

Recognized
      principally on cash basis. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 86 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 13  

GECS
Allowance for Losses on Financing Receivables 

See
note 12 for amounts related to consolidated, liquidating securitization
entities. 

SELECTED
FINANCING RECEIVABLES RATIOS 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 87 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 14  

Property,
Plant and Equipment 

(a) 

Estimated
      useful lives exclude land. 

(b) 

Included
      $1,513 million and $1,763 million of original cost of assets leased to GE
      with accumulated amortization of $315 million and $293 million at December
      31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

(c) 

The
      Aviation Financial Services business of Infrastructure recognized
      impairment losses of $110 million in 2007 and $51 million in 2006 recorded
      in the caption  Other costs and expenses  in the Statement of Earnings to
      reflect adjustments to fair value based on current market values from
      independent appraisers. 

Amortization
of GECS equipment leased to others was $7,222 million, $5,839 million and $5,642
million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Noncancellable future rentals due
from customers for equipment on operating leases at December 31, 2007, are as
follows: 

Note 15  

Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets 

(a) 

Indefinite-lived
      intangible assets principally comprised trademarks, tradenames and U.S.
      Federal Communications Commission
licenses. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 88 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Changes in goodwill balances follow.  

Goodwill
balances increased $9,028 million in 2007 as a result of new acquisitions. The
largest goodwill balance increases arose from acquisitions of Smiths Aerospace
Group Ltd. ($3,877 million) and Vetco Gray ($1,379 million) by Infrastructure;
Diskont und Kredit AG and Disko Leasing GmbH (DISKO) and ASL Auto
Service-Leasing GmbH (ASL), the leasing businesses of KG Allgemeine Leasing GmbH
  Co. ($694 million) by Commercial Finance; Oxygen Media ($604 million) by
NBC Universal; and Sanyo Electric Credit Co., Ltd. ($548 million) by Commercial
Finance. The goodwill balance declined by $269 million related to purchase
accounting adjustments to prior-year acquisitions during 2007. 

Goodwill
balances increased $4,430 million in 2006 as a result of new acquisitions. The
largest goodwill balance increases arose from acquisitions of IDX Systems
Corporation ($1,133 million) and Biacore International AB ($308 million) by
Healthcare; iVillage Inc. ($521 million) by NBC Universal; ZENON Environmental
Inc. ($506 million) by Infrastructure; and Banque Artesia Nederland N.V., a
subsidiary of Dexia Group ($340 million) and the custom fleet business of
National Australia Bank Ltd. ($306 million) by Commercial Finance. Goodwill
declined in 2006 as a result of the sale of television stations ($304 million)
by NBC Universal. The goodwill balance also declined by $194 million related to
purchase accounting adjustments to prior-year acquisitions during
2006. 

Upon
closing an acquisition, we estimate the fair values of assets and liabilities
acquired and consolidate the acquisition as quickly as possible. Given the time
it takes to obtain pertinent information to finalize the acquired company s
balance sheet, then to adjust the acquired company s accounting policies,
procedures, books and records to our standards, it is often several quarters
before we are able to finalize those initial fair value estimates. Accordingly,
it is not uncommon for our initial estimates to be subsequently
revised. 

INTANGIBLE
ASSETS SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 89 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

During
2007, we recorded additions to intangible assets subject to amortization of
$4,286 million. The components of finite-lived intangible assets acquired during
2007 and their respective weighted-average useful lives are: $2,277 million - Customer-related
(17.5 years); $299 million - Patents, licenses
and trademarks (20.2 years); $590 million - Capitalized software
(4.2 years); $992 million - Lease valuations
(7.6 years); and $128 million - All other (9.9
years). 

Consolidated
amortization related to intangible assets subject to amortization was $2,080
million and $1,744 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. We estimate that
annual pre-tax amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization over
the next five calendar years to be as follows: 2008 - $1,969 million;
2009 - $1,804
million; 2010 - $1,635 million;
2011 - $1,470
million; 2012 - $1,320
million. 

Note 16  

All
Other Assets 

(a) 

The
      fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method investments in a
      continuous loss position at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were
      insignificant. 

(b) 

GECS
      investment in real estate consisted principally of two categories: real
      estate held for investment and equity method investments. Both categories
      contained a wide range of properties including the following at December
      31, 2007: office buildings (49%), apartment buildings (14%), industrial
      properties (11%), retail facilities (9%), franchise properties (7%),
      parking facilities (2%) and other (8%). At December 31, 2007, investments
      were located in the Americas (48%), Europe (33%) and Asia
      (19%). 

(c) 

Assets
      were classified as held for sale on the date a decision was made to
      dispose of them through sale, securitization or other means. Such assets
      consisted primarily of real estate properties and credit card receivables,
      and were accounted for at the lower of carrying amount or estimated fair
      value less costs to sell. These amounts are net of valuation allowances of
      $153 million and $3 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. 

(d) 

The
      fair value of and unrealized loss on those investments in a continuous
      loss position for less than 12 months at December 31, 2007, were $546
      million and $93 million, respectively, which included $282 million fair
      value and $15 million unrealized losses related to our investment in FGIC
      Corporation (FGIC) preferred stock and $36 million fair value and $29
      million unrealized losses related to our investment in FGIC common stock.
      The fair value of and unrealized loss on those investments in a continuous
      loss position for 12 months or more at December 31, 2007, were $18
      million and $8 million, respectively. The fair value of and unrealized
      loss on those investments in a continuous loss position for less than 12
      months at December 31, 2006, were $113 million and $25 million,
      respectively. The fair value of and unrealized loss on those investments
      in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more at December 31, 2006,
      were $38 million and $8 million, respectively. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 90 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 17  

Borrowings 

SHORT-TERM
BORROWINGS 

(a) 

Based
      on year-end balances and year-end local currency interest rates. Current
      portion of long-term debt included the effects of related interest rate
      and currency swaps, if any, directly associated with the original debt
      issuance. 

(b) 

Entirely
      obligations of consolidated, liquidating securitization entities. See note
      12. 

(c) 

Included
      $1,106 million of asset-backed, liquidating securitization entities at
      December 31, 2007 and none at December 31, 2006. 

(d) 

Included
      $10,789 million and $9,731 million of deposits in non-U.S. banks at
      December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

(e) 

Entirely
      variable denomination floating rate demand
  notes. 

LONG-TERM
BORROWINGS 

(a) 

Based
      on year-end balances and year-end local currency interest rates, including
      the effects of related interest rate and currency swaps, if any, directly
      associated with the original debt issuance. 

(b) 

A
      variety of obligations having various interest rates and maturities,
      including certain borrowings by parent operating components and
      affiliates. 

(c) 

Included
      $3,410 million and $4,684 million of asset-backed senior notes, issued by
      consolidated, liquidating securitization entities at December 31, 2007 and
      2006, respectively. See note 12. 

(d) 

Included
      $750 million of subordinated notes guaranteed by GE at December 31, 2007
      and 2006. 

(e) 

Included
      $8,064 million and $2,019 million of subordinated debentures receiving
      rating agency equity credit at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. 

Our
borrowings are addressed below from the perspectives of liquidity, interest rate
and currency risk management. Additional information about borrowings and
associated swaps can be found in note 26. 

LIQUIDITY  is affected by debt
maturities and our ability to repay or refinance such debt. Long-term debt
maturities over the next five years follow. 

Committed
credit lines totaling $64.8 billion had been extended to us by 72 banks at
year-end 2007. Availability of these lines is shared between GE and GECS with
$15.0 billion and $64.8 billion available to GE and GECS, respectively. The GECS
lines include $37.2 billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can
borrow funds for periods exceeding one year. The remaining 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 91 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

$27.6
billion are 364-day lines that contain a term-out feature that allows GE or GECS
to extend the borrowings for one year from the date of expiration of the lending
agreement. We pay banks for credit facilities, but amounts were insignificant in
each of the past three years. 

INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY
RISK  is managed through the direct issuance of debt or use of
derivatives. We take positions in view of anticipated behavior of assets,
including prepayment behavior. We use a variety of instruments, including
interest rate and currency swaps and currency forwards, to achieve our interest
rate objectives. 

The
following table provides additional information about derivatives designated as
hedges of borrowings in accordance with SFAS 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities ,   as
amended. 

DERIVATIVE
FAIR VALUES BY ACTIVITY/INSTRUMENT 

We
regularly assess the effectiveness of all hedge positions where required using a
variety of techniques, including cumulative dollar offset and regression
analysis, depending on which method was selected at inception of the respective
hedge. Adjustments related to fair value hedges decreased the carrying amount of
debt outstanding at December 31, 2007, by $33 million. At December 31, 2007, the
maximum term of derivative instruments that hedge forecasted transactions was 28
years and related to hedges of long-term, non-U.S. dollar denominated fixed rate
debt. See note 26. 

Note 18  

GECS
Investment Contracts, Insurance Liabilities and Insurance Annuity
Benefits 

(a) 

Life
      insurance benefits are accounted for mainly by a net-level-premium method
      using estimated yields generally ranging from 3.0% to 8.5% in both 2007
      and 2006. 

When
insurance affiliates cede insurance to third parties, they are not relieved of
their primary obligation to policyholders. Losses on ceded risks give rise to
claims for recovery; we establish allowances for probable losses on such
receivables from reinsurers as required. 

We
recognize reinsurance recoveries as a reduction of the Statement of Earnings
caption  Investment contracts, insurance losses and insurance annuity benefits. 
Reinsurance recoveries were $104 million, $162 million and $183 million for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Note 19  

All
Other Liabilities 

This
caption includes liabilities for various items including non-current
compensation and benefits, deferred income, interest on tax liabilities,
unrecognized tax benefits, accrued participation and residuals, environmental
remediation, asset retirement obligations, derivative instruments, product
warranties and a variety of sundry items. 

Accruals
for non-current compensation and benefits amounted to $21,509 million and
$16,997 million for year-end 2007 and 2006, respectively. These amounts include
postretirement benefits, international and supplemental pension benefits, and
other compensation and benefit accruals such as deferred incentive compensation.
The increase in 2007 was primarily the result of plan benefit changes resulting
from new U.S. labor agreements and retiree health cost increases. 

We
are involved in numerous remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as
required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs, exclude
possible insurance recoveries and, when dates and amounts of such costs are not
known, are not discounted. When there appears to be a range of possible costs
with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the low end of such range.
Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information
related to individual sites make it difficult to develop a meaningful estimate
of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure.
However, even in the unlikely event that remediation costs amounted to the high
end of the range of costs for each site, the resulting additional liability
would not be material to our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 92 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 20  

Deferred
Income Taxes 

Aggregate
deferred income tax amounts are summarized below. 

Principal
components of our net liability (asset) representing deferred income tax
balances are as follows: 

(a) 

Represented
      the tax effects of temporary differences related to expense accruals for a
      wide variety of items, such as employee compensation and benefits,
      interest on tax liabilities, product warranties and other sundry items
      that are not currently deductible. 

(b) 

Net
      of valuation allowances of $557 million and $509 million for GE and $225
      million and $171 million for GECS, for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Of the
      net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2007, of $1,735 million, $49
      million relates to net operating loss carryforwards that expire in various
      years ending from December 31, 2008, through December 31, 2010, $141
      million relates to net operating losses that expire in various years
      ending from December 31, 2011, through December 31, 2022, and $1,545
      million relates to net operating loss carryforwards that may be carried
      forward indefinitely. 

Note 21  

Minority
Interest in Equity of Consolidated Affiliates 

Minority
interest in equity of consolidated affiliates includes common shares in
consolidated affiliates and preferred stock issued by affiliates of GE Capital.
Preferred shares that we are required to redeem at a specified or determinable
date are classified as liabilities. The balance is summarized as
follows: 

(a) 

Included
      minority interest in partnerships and common shares of consolidated
      affiliates. 

(b) 

The
      preferred stock primarily pays cumulative dividends at variable rates.
      Dividend rates in local currency on the preferred stock ranged from 3.88%
      to 5.52% during 2007 and 3.28% to 5.49% during
  2006. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 93 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 22  

Shareowners 
Equity 

(a) 

For
      2007, included $(3,122) million of prior service costs for plan
      amendments, $494 million of amortization of prior services costs, $4,666
      million of gains (losses) arising during the year and $528 million of
      amortization of gains (losses)  -  net of
      deferred taxes of $(2,482) million, $339 million, $2,639 million and $364
      million, respectively. 

(b) 

At
      December 31, 2007, included additions of equity of $625 million related to
      hedges of our investments in financial services subsidiaries that have
      functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar and reductions of $668
      million related to cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions, of which
      we expect to transfer $94 million to earnings as an expense in 2008 along
      with the earnings effects of the related forecasted
      transaction. 

(c) 

Total
      dividends and other transactions with shareowners reduced equity by
      $23,102 million in 2007, $17,983 million in 2006 and $13,249 million in
      2005. 

(d) 

2007
      opening balance change reflects cumulative effect of changes in accounting
      principles of $(49) million related to adopting FIN 48 and $(77) million
      related to adoption of FSP FAS
13-2. 

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the aggregate statutory capital and surplus of the
insurance activities totaled $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.
Accounting practices prescribed by statutory authorities are used in preparing
statutory statements. 

In
December 2004, our Board of Directors authorized a three-year, $15 billion share
repurchase program, expanded that program in 2005 to $25 billion and extended it
in July 2007 to $27 billion. In December 2007, our Board approved a new
three-year, $15 billion share repurchase program. Under these share repurchase
programs, on a book basis we repurchased 357.9 million shares for a total of
$13.9 billion during 2007. 

Common
shares issued and outstanding are summarized in the following
table. 

SHARES
OF GE COMMON STOCK 

GE
has 50 million authorized shares of preferred stock ($1.00 par value), but has
not issued any such shares as of December 31, 2007. 

Note 23  

Other
Stock-Related Information 

We
grant stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance share units
(PSUs) to employees under the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan. This plan replaces
the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. In addition, we grant options and RSUs in
limited circumstances to consultants, advisors and independent contractors
(primarily non-employee talent at NBC Universal) under a plan approved by our
Board of Directors in 1997 (the consultants  plan). There are outstanding grants
under one shareowner-approved option plan for non-employee directors. Share
requirements for all plans may be met from either unissued or treasury shares.
Stock options expire 10 years from the date they are granted and vest over
service periods that range from one to five years. RSUs give the recipients the
right to receive shares of our stock upon the lapse of their related
restrictions. Restrictions on RSUs lapse in various increments and at various
dates, beginning after one year from date of grant through grantee retirement.
Although the plan permits us to issue RSUs settleable in cash, we have only
issued RSUs settleable in shares of our stock. PSUs give recipients the right to
receive shares of our stock upon the achievement of certain performance
targets. 

All
grants of GE options under all plans must be approved by the Management
Development and Compensation Committee, which consists entirely of independent
directors. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 94 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

STOCK
COMPENSATION PLANS 

(a) 

In
      2007, the Board of Directors approved the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan
      (the Plan). The Plan replaced the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The
      maximum number of shares that may be granted under the Plan is 500 million
      shares, of which no more than 250 million may be available for awards
      granted in any form provided under the Plan other than options or stock
      appreciation rights. The approximate 105.9 million shares available for
      grant under the 1990 Plan were retired upon approval of the 2007 Plan.
      Total shares available for future issuance under the 2007 Plan amounted to
      473.0 million shares. 

(b) 

Not
      applicable. 

(c) 

Total
      shares available for future issuance under the consultants  plan amount to
      24.0 million shares. 

Outstanding
options expire on various dates through December 6, 2017. 

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2007. 

STOCK
OPTIONS OUTSTANDING 

At
      year-end 2006, options with an average exercise price of $35.93 were
      exercisable on 183 million shares. 

(a) 

Average
      contractual life remaining in
years. 

STOCK
OPTION ACTIVITY 

We
measure the fair value of each stock option grant at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average grant-date fair value
of options granted during 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $9.28, $7.99 and
$8.87, respectively. The following assumptions were used in arriving at the fair
value of options granted during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively: risk-free
interest rates of 4.2%, 4.8% and 4.1%; dividend yields of 2.9%, 2.9% and 2.5%;
expected volatility of 25%, 24% and 28%; and expected lives of six years and ten
months, six years and two months and six years. Risk free interest rates reflect
the yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities. Expected dividend yields
presume a set dividend rate. Expected volatilities are based on implied
volatilities from traded options and historical volatility of our stock. The
expected option lives are based on our historical experience of employee
exercise behavior. 

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted
to $375 million, $587 million and $731 million, respectively. As of December 31,
2007, there was $234 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted
average period of four years. 

Cash
received from option exercises during 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $747 million, $622
million and $403 million, respectively. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 95 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

OTHER
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 

The
fair value of each restricted stock unit is the market price of our stock on the
date of grant. The weighted average grant-date fair value of RSUs granted during
2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $38.48, $33.95 and $34.72, respectively. The
total intrinsic value of RSUs vested during 2007, 2006 and 2005 amounted to $181
million, $132 million and $90 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007,
there was $638 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested RSUs. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of two years and two months. As of December 31, 2007, 1.3 million PSUs
with a weighted average remaining contractual term of 2 years, an aggregate
intrinsic value of $49 million and $14 million of unrecognized compensation cost
were outstanding. 

Note 24  

Supplemental
Cash Flows Information 

Changes
in operating assets and liabilities are net of acquisitions and dispositions of
principal businesses. 

Amounts
reported in the  Payments for principal businesses purchased  line in the
Statement of Cash Flows is net of cash acquired and included debt assumed and
immediately repaid in acquisitions. 

Amounts
reported in the  All other operating activities  line in the Statement of Cash
Flows consists primarily of adjustments to current and noncurrent accruals and
deferrals of costs and expenses, adjustments for gains and losses on assets,
increases and decreases in assets held for sale and adjustments to assets. There
were no significant non-cash transactions in 2007. Significant non-cash
transactions in 2006 and 2005 include the following: In 2006, in connection with
our sale of GE Insurance Solutions, Swiss Re assumed $1,700 million of debt, and
GE received $2,238 million of newly issued Swiss Re common stock. See note 2. In
2005, NBC Universal acquired IAC/InterActiveCorp s 5.44% common interest in VUE
for a total purchase price that included $115 million of non-cash consideration,
representing the fair value of future services to be performed by NBC
Universal. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 96 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Certain
supplemental information related to GE and GECS cash flows is shown
below. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 97 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 25  

Operating
Segments 

REVENUES 

(a) 

Revenues
      of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to
      customers and other income. 

(b) 

Sales
      from one component to another generally are priced at equivalent
      commercial selling prices. 

(c) 

During
      the fourth quarter of 2007, we transferred the Equipment Services business
      from the Industrial segment to the Commercial Finance
    segment. 

Revenues
from customers located in the United States were $86,247 million, $81,057
million and $75,655 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Revenues from
customers located outside the United States were $86,491 million, $70,786
million and $60,925 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

(a) 

Assets
      of discontinued operations are included in Corporate items and
      eliminations for all periods presented. 

(b) 

Total
      assets of the Infrastructure, Commercial Finance, GE Money, Healthcare,
      NBC Universal and Industrial operating segments at December 31, 2007,
      include investment in and advances to associated companies of $4,579
      million, $1,878 million, $11,115 million, $247 million, $384 million and
      $498 million, respectively, which contributed approximately $616 million,
      $241 million, $1,430 million, $32 million, $453 million and $71 million,
      respectively, to segment pre-tax income for the year ended December 31,
      2007. Aggregate summarized financial information for significant
      associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest included: total
      assets of $138,864 million, primarily financing receivables of $83,087
      million; total liabilities of $120,914 million, primarily bank deposits of
      $63,514 million; revenues totaling $22,446 million; and net earnings
      totaling $3,979 million. 

(c) 

Additions
      to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal
      businesses purchased. 

(a) 

Included
      only portions of the segment that are financial services
      businesses. 

(b) 

Included
      amounts for Healthcare, Industrial, NBC Universal and the industrial
      businesses of Infrastructure, for which our measure of segment profit
      excludes interest and other financial charges and income
      taxes. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 98 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Property,
plant and equipment  -  net associated with
operations based in the United States were $27,213 million, $25,699 million and
$24,262 million at year-end 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Property, plant
and equipment - net associated with
operations based outside the United States were $50,682 million, $44,951 million
and $38,106 million at year-end 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Basis
for presentation 

Our
operating businesses are organized based on the nature of markets and customers.
Segment accounting policies are the same as described in note 1. Segment results
for our financial services businesses reflect the discrete tax effect of
transactions, but the intraperiod tax allocation is reflected outside of the
segment unless otherwise noted in segment results. 

Effects
of transactions between related companies are eliminated and consist primarily
of GECS services for material procurement and trade receivables management;
buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased by GE from GECS;
information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft
engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from
third-party producers for lease to others; medical equipment manufactured by GE
that is leased by GECS to others; and various investments, loans and allocations
of GE corporate overhead costs. 

A
description of our operating segments can be found on page 106 and details of
segment profit by operating segment can be found in the Summary of Operating
Segments table on page 47 of this report. 

Note 26  

Financial
Instruments 

(a) 

These
      financial instruments do not have notional amounts. 

(b) 

See
      note 17. 

(c) 

Principally
      cost method investments. 

(d) 

Included
      effects of interest rate and cross-currency derivatives. 

(e) 

Net
      of reinsurance of $2,815 million and $840 million at December 31, 2007 and
      2006, respectively. 

Assets
and liabilities not carried at fair value in our Statement of Financial Position
are discussed below. Apart from certain of our borrowings and certain marketable
securities, few of the instruments discussed below are actively traded and their
fair values must often be determined using financial models. Realization of the
fair value of these instruments depends upon market forces beyond our control,
including marketplace liquidity. Therefore, the disclosed fair values may not be
indicative of net realizable value or reflect future fair values. 

A
description of how we estimate fair values follows. 

Loans 

Based
on quoted market prices, recent transactions and/or discounted future cash
flows, using rates at which similar loans would have been made to similar
borrowers. 

Borrowings 

Based
on discounted future cash flows using current market rates which are comparable
to market quotes. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 99 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Investment
contract benefits 

Based
on expected future cash flows, discounted at currently offered rates for
immediate annuity contracts or cash surrender values for single premium deferred
annuities. 

Guaranteed
investment contracts 

Based
on present value of future cash flows, discounted using current benchmark
interest rates. 

All
other instruments 

Based
on comparable market transactions, discounted future cash flows, quoted market
prices, and/or estimates of the cost to terminate or otherwise settle
obligations. The fair values of our cost method investments that are not
exchange traded represent our best estimates of amounts we could have received
other than on a forced or liquidation basis. 

Assets
and liabilities that are reflected in the accompanying financial statements at
fair value are not included in the above disclosures; such items include cash
and equivalents, investment securities and derivative financial
instruments. 

Additional
information about certain categories in the table above follows. 

Insurance
 -  credit
life 

Certain
insurance affiliates, primarily in GE Money, issue credit life insurance
designed to pay the balance due on a loan if the borrower dies before the loan
is repaid. As part of our overall risk management process, we cede to third
parties a portion of this associated risk, but are not relieved of our primary
obligation to policyholders. 

LOAN
COMMITMENTS 

Derivatives
and hedging 

We
conduct our business activities in diverse markets around the world, including
countries where obtaining local funding is sometimes inefficient. The nature of
our activities exposes us to changes in interest rates and currency exchange
rates. We manage such risks using various techniques including debt whose terms
correspond to terms of the funded assets, as well as combinations of debt and
derivatives that achieve our objectives. We also are exposed to various
commodity price risks and address certain of these risks with commodity
contracts. We value derivatives that are not exchange-traded with internal
market-based valuation models. When necessary, we also obtain information from
our derivative counterparties to validate our models and to value the few
products that our internal models do not address. 

We
use interest rate swaps, currency derivatives and commodity derivatives to
reduce the variability of expected future cash flows associated with variable
rate borrowings and commercial purchase and sale transactions, including
commodities. We use interest rate swaps, currency swaps and interest rate and
currency forwards to hedge the fair value effects of interest rate and currency
exchange rate changes on local and non-functional currency denominated
fixed-rate borrowings and certain types of fixed-rate assets. We use currency
swaps and forwards to protect our net investments in global operations conducted
in non-U.S. dollar currencies. We intend all of these positions to qualify as
hedges and to be accounted for as hedges. 

We
use swaps, futures and option contracts, including caps, floors and collars, as
economic hedges of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and equity
prices on certain types of assets and liabilities. We sometimes use credit
default swaps to economically hedge the credit risk of various counterparties
with which we have entered into loan or leasing arrangements. We occasionally
obtain equity warrants as part of sourcing or financing transactions. Although
these instruments are derivatives, their economic risks are similar to, and
managed on the same basis as, risks of other equity instruments we hold. These
instruments are marked to market through earnings. 

Earnings
effects of derivatives designated as hedges 

At
December 31, 2007, approximately 53% of our total interest rate swaps designated
as hedges were exempt from ongoing tests of effectiveness. The following table
provides information about the earnings effects of derivatives designated and
qualifying as hedges, but not qualifying for the assumption of no
ineffectiveness. 

PRE-TAX
GAINS (LOSSES) 

In
2007, 2006 and 2005, we recognized insignificant gains and losses related to
hedged forecasted transactions and firm commitments that did not occur by the
end of the originally specified period. 

Additional
information regarding the use of derivatives is provided in note 17 and note
22. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 100 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Counterparty
credit risk 

We
manage counterparty credit risk, the risk that counterparties will default and
not make payments to us according to the terms of the agreements, on an
individual counterparty basis. Thus, when a legal right of offset exists, we net
certain exposures by counterparty and include the value of collateral to
determine the amount of ensuing exposure. When net exposure to a counterparty,
based on the current market values of agreements and collateral, exceeds credit
exposure limits (see following table), we take action to reduce exposure. Such
actions include prohibiting additional transactions with the counterparty,
requiring collateral from the counterparty (as described below) and terminating
or restructuring transactions. 

Swaps
are required to be executed under master agreements containing mutual credit
downgrade provisions that provide the ability to require assignment or
termination in the event either party is downgraded below A3 or A - . In certain cases
we have entered into collateral arrangements that provide us with the right to
hold collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury or other highly-rated securities) when
the current market value of derivative contracts exceeds a specified limit. We
evaluate credit risk exposures and compliance with credit exposure limits net of
such collateral. 

Fair
values of our derivatives assets and liabilities represent the replacement value
of existing derivatives at market prices and can change significantly from
period to period based on, among other factors, market movements and changes in
our positions. At December 31, 2007, our exposure to counterparties, after
consideration of netting arrangements and collateral, was about $2,000
million. 

Following
is GECS policy relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure
limits to counterparties. 

COUNTERPARTY
CREDIT CRITERIA 

Credit
      rating 

Moody s 

S P 

Foreign
      exchange forwards and other derivatives less than one year 

P-1 

A-1 

All
      derivatives between one and five years 

Aa3 

(a) 

AA- 

(a) 

All
      derivatives greater than five years 

Aaa 

(a) 

AAA 

(a) 

(a) 

Counterparties
      that have an obligation to provide collateral to cover credit exposure in
      accordance with a credit support agreement must have a minimum A3/A-
      rating. 

EXPOSURE
LIMITS 

(a) 

For
      derivatives with maturities less than one year, counterparties are
      permitted to have unsecured exposure up to $150 million with a minimum
      rating of A-1/P-1. 

Note 27  

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements 

We
securitize financial assets in the ordinary course of business to improve
shareowner returns. The securitization transactions we engage in are similar to
those used by many financial institutions. Beyond improving returns, these
securitization transactions serve as funding sources for a variety of
diversified lending and securities transactions. Historically, we have used both
GE-supported and third-party entities to execute off-balance sheet
securitization transactions funded in the commercial paper and term bond
markets. Assets in off-balance sheet securitization entities amounted to $55,113
million and $46,105 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

In
a typical securitization transaction, we sell assets to a special purpose
entity, which has obtained cash by issuing beneficial interests, usually debt,
to third parties. These beneficial interests are credit enhanced, normally
through over-collateralization, but also with other forms of liquidity and
credit support arrangements. 

Assets
in off-balance sheet securitization entities comprise the
following: 

Gross
securitization gains amounted to $1,812 million in 2007, compared with $1,187
million in 2006 and $1,051 million in 2005. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 101 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Amounts
recognized in our financial statements related to sales to off-balance sheet
securitization entities are as follows: 

RETAINED INTERESTS.  When
      we securitize receivables, we determine fair value of retained interests
      based on discounted cash flow models that incorporate, among other things,
      assumptions about loan pool credit losses, prepayment speeds and discount
      rates. These assumptions are based on our experience, market trends and
      anticipated performance related to the particular assets securitized. We
      classify retained interests in securitized receivables as investment
      securities and mark them to fair value each reporting period, updating our
      models for current assumptions. These assets decrease as cash is received
      in payment. We recorded a loss in operations of $106 million in 2007 to
      reflect decreases in fair value on retained interests in accordance with
      SFAS 155,  Accounting for
      Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments . When the carrying amounts of
      other retained interests exceed their fair value, we evaluate whether the
      unrealized loss is other than temporary and, if it is, record any
      indicated loss in operations. We recorded $113 million and $37 million of
      other than temporary losses in operations during 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. 

SERVICING.  Following a
      securitization transaction, we also may provide servicing for a
      market-based fee based on remaining outstanding principal balances. Where
      the fee does not represent adequate compensation, a servicing asset or
      liability is recorded, as appropriate. Their value is subject to credit,
      prepayment and interest rate risk. 

RECOURSE LIABILITIES. 
      Certain transactions involve credit support agreements. As a result, we
      provide for expected credit losses at amounts that approximate fair
      value. 

The
following table summarizes data related to securitization sales of revolving and
long-term receivables that we completed during 2007 and 2006. 

(a) 

Based
      on weighted averages. 

(b) 

Represented
      a payment rate on credit card
receivables. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 102 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Key
assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests in
securitizations and the sensitivity of the current fair value of residual cash
flows to changes in those assumptions related to all outstanding retained
interests as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, are noted in the following
table. 

(a) 

Based
      on weighted averages. 

(b) 

Represented
      a payment rate on credit card
receivables. 

Note 28  

Commitments
and Guarantees 

Commitments,
including guarantees 

In
our Aviation business of Infrastructure, we had committed to provide financial
assistance on $1,607 million of future customer acquisitions of aircraft
equipped with our engines, including commitments made to airlines in 2007 for
future sales under our GE90 and GEnx engine campaigns. The Aviation Financial
Services business of Infrastructure had placed multiple-year orders for various
Boeing, Airbus and other aircraft with list prices approximating $20,046 million
and secondary orders with airlines for used aircraft of approximately $910
million at December 31, 2007. 

At
December 31, 2007, NBC Universal had $9,722 million of commitments to acquire
motion picture and television programming, including U.S. television rights to
future Olympic Games and National Football League games, contractual commitments
under various creative talent arrangements and various other arrangements
requiring payments through 2014. 

At
December 31, 2007, we were committed under the following guarantee arrangements
beyond those provided on behalf of securitization entities. See note
27. 

CREDIT SUPPORT.  We have
      provided $8,126 million of credit support on behalf of certain customers
      or associated companies, predominantly joint ventures and partnerships,
      using arrangements such as standby letters of credit and performance
      guarantees. These arrangements enable these customers and associated
      companies to execute transactions or obtain desired financing arrangements
      with third parties. Should the customer or associated company fail to
      perform under the terms of the transaction or financing arrangement, we
      would be required to perform on their behalf. Under most such
      arrangements, our guarantee is secured, usually by the asset being
      purchased or financed, but possibly by certain other assets of the
      customer or associated company. The length of these credit support
      arrangements parallels the length of the related financing arrangements or
      transactions. The liability for such credit support was $57 million for
      December 31, 2007. 

INDEMNIFICATION
      AGREEMENTS.  These are agreements that require us to fund up to $608
      million under residual value guarantees on a variety of leased equipment
      and $1,718 million of other indemnification commitments arising primarily
      from sales of businesses or assets. Under most of our residual value
      guarantees, our commitment is secured by the leased asset at termination
      of the lease. The liability for these indemnification agreements was $51
      million at December 31, 2007. 

CONTINGENT
      CONSIDERATION.  These are agreements to provide additional
      consideration in a business combination to the seller if contractually
      specified conditions related to the acquired entity are achieved. At
      December 31, 2007, we had total maximum exposure for future estimated
      payments of $220 million, of which none was earned and
      payable. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 103 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Our
guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business. We underwrite these
guarantees considering economic, liquidity and credit risk of the counterparty.
We believe that the likelihood is remote that any such arrangements could have a
significant adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity. We record liabilities for guarantees at estimated fair value,
generally the amount of the premium received, or if we do not receive a premium,
the amount based on appraisal, observed market values or discounted cash flows.
Any associated expected recoveries from third parties are recorded as other
receivables; not netted against the liabilities. 

Product
warranties 

We
provide for estimated product warranty expenses when we sell the related
products. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best
available information -  mostly historical
claims experience - claims costs may
differ from amounts provided. An analysis of changes in the liability for
product warranties follows. 

(a) 

Primarily
      related to Infrastructure and
Healthcare. 

Note 29  

Quarterly
Information (Unaudited) 

For
GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services less costs of goods
and services sold. 

Earnings-per-share
amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing
operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a
result, the sum of each quarter s per-share amount may not equal the total
per-share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per-share amounts from
continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total
per-share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 104 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Note 30  

Immaterial
Corrections 

As
previously reported, we are conducting an internal review of revenue recognition
matters in connection with an ongoing SEC investigation. In the course of that
review, we have identified certain immaterial non-cash items that we have
corrected from amounts in previous annual reports. These items are as
follows: 

Cut-off 

This
adjustment corrected instances in which we recorded revenues upon shipment
before we sufficiently transferred risks of transit loss, risks that we retained
sometimes through retention of a layer of insurance risk and sometimes as a
consequence of making voluntary customer concessions. In February 2008, during
our ongoing review we identified errors in corrections recorded for cut-off.
Like any error of comparable insignificance discovered at a comparable point in
closing, these were not adjusted in the accompanying financial statements. These
amounts are included below, but removed under the caption,  Not adjusted. 
Amounts not corrected would have increased 2007 revenues by $39 million and
earnings from continuing operations and net earnings by $12
million. 

Contract
cost 

This
adjustment corrected instances in our Aviation product services agreements in
which we attributed excess credit to services contracts for profits on
refurbished spare parts. 

Spare
parts profit 

This
adjustment corrected effects of a 2002 and subsequent overestimate of
contract-to-date profitability on spare parts related to certain long-term
product services agreements. 

Contract
estimates 

This
adjustment corrected effects of an error in applying revenue measurement
principles in certain Infrastructure businesses subject to AICPA Statement of
Position 81-1,  Accounting for
Performance of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type
Contracts . 

(a) 

Amounts
      for 2003 have been revised to correct an error in the spare parts profit
      adjustments previously reported in our filing on Form 8-K dated January
      18, 2008. This correction decreased 2003 net earnings by $202 million,
      correcting an adjustment of the same amount previously attributed to one
      correction in 2002. 

Note 31  

Subsequent
Event 

On
February 4, 2008, we acquired most of Merrill Lynch and Co., Inc. s wholly-owned
middle-market commercial finance business, Merrill Lynch Capital. This
acquisition of over $12 billion in assets expands our Commercial Finance
business, and was primarily funded through the issuance of debt by GECS in the
first quarter of 2008. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 105 

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Our
Businesses 

A
description of operating segments for General Electric Company and consolidated
affiliates as of December 31, 2007, and the basis for presentation in this
report, follows. 

Infrastructure 

Jet
engines, aerospace systems and equipment, replacement parts and repair and
maintenance services for all categories of commercial aircraft; for a wide
variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and
helicopters; for marine applications; and for executive and regional aircraft.
Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers, airlines and
government agencies. 

Transportation
products and maintenance services, including diesel electric locomotives,
transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles, gearing
technology for wind turbines, drill motors, marine and stationary power
generation, and railway signaling and office systems. 

Financial
products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors,
including leases, aircraft purchasing and trading, loans, engine/spare parts
financing, fleet planning and financial advisory services. 

Power
plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and
maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative
turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services,
including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long-term
maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial
customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind turbines and solar
technology. Advanced technology equipment, principally compressors and turbines,
and associated services (including pipeline inspection and integrity solutions)
for applications across the oil and gas industry from the wellhead through
distribution by pipeline. The acquisition of Vetco Gray has added products,
systems and services for onshore and offshore drilling, completion and
production to the portfolio. 

Water
treatment services and equipment, including specialty chemical treatment
programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and
desalination processes. 

Financial
products to the global energy and water industries include structured and common
equity, debt, leasing, project finance, broad-based commercial finance and
investments in operating leases. 

Commercial
Finance 

Loans,
leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers,
distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets.
These assets include industrial-related facilities and equipment; commercial and
residential real estate; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in
many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation,
telecommunications and healthcare industries. 

GE
Money 

Private-label
credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt
consolidation; home equity loans; corporate travel and purchasing cards;
deposits and other savings products; small and medium enterprise lending; and
credit insurance on a global basis. 

Healthcare 

Diagnostic
imaging systems such as magnetic resonance (MR), computed tomography (CT) and
positron emission tomography (PET) scanners, X-ray, nuclear imaging and
ultrasound. Patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, bone densitometry,
anesthesia, oxygen therapy, neonatal and critical care devices. Related
services, including equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies
and customer productivity services. Diagnostic imaging agents used in medical
scanning procedures, products used in the purification of biopharmaceuticals,
and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic
research. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical
facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science
research market. 

NBC
Universal 

Principal
businesses are the broadcast of U.S. network television, production and
distribution of motion pictures and television programs, operation of 26
television stations, operation of cable/satellite television networks around the
world, operation of theme parks, and investment and programming activities in
digital media and the Internet. 

Industrial 

Major
appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers,
electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers,
microwave ovens, room air conditioners and residential water system products.
These products are distributed both to retail outlets and direct to consumers,
mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors and distributors
for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps and
lighting fixtures, including light-emitting diodes. Electrical distribution and
control equipment includes power delivery and control products such as
transformers, meters and relays. Products and services are sold in North America
and in global markets under various GE and private-label brands. 

Measurement
equipment (products and subsystems for sensing temperature, flow rates,
humidity, pressure and inspection equipment that monitors and tests materials
without disassembly or damaging them). Security equipment and systems, including
intrusion and access control systems, video surveillance and sensor monitoring
equipment, integrated facility monitoring systems and explosive detection
systems. A broad range of automation hardware and software. Markets are
extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential, commercial and
industrial end-users, including utilities; original equipment manufacturers;
electrical distributors; retail outlets; airports; railways; and transit
authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and sold in
global markets. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 106 

Supplemental
Information 

Financial
Measures that Supplement Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 

We
sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but
not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are
considered  non-GAAP financial measures  under U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred, in various sections of this
Annual Report, to: 

Growth
      in industrial cash from operating activities (CFOA) in
  2007 

Average
      total shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued
      operations 

GE
      earnings from continuing operations before income taxes excluding GECS
      earnings from continuing operations and the corresponding effective tax
      rates, for the three years ended December 31,
  2007 

GE
      income tax rate excluding GECS earnings for the three years ended December
      31, 2007 

The
reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to
their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow. 

Organic
Revenue Growth in 2007 

Organic
Revenue Growth in 2006 

Organic
Revenue Growth in 2005 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 107 

Supplemental
Information 

Organic
Revenue Growth in 2004 

Organic
Revenue Growth in 2003 

Growth
in Industrial CFOA 

Free
Cash Flow 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 108 

Supplemental
Information 

Operating
Profit Margin 

Average Total Shareowners  Equity,
Excluding Effects of Discontinued Operations  (a)  

(a) 

Used
      for computing return on average shareowners  equity and return on average
      total capital invested shown in the Selected Financial Data
      section. 

(b) 

On
      an annual basis, calculated using a five-point
  average. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 109 

Supplemental
Information 

U.S.
GAAP requires earnings of discontinued operations to be displayed separately in
the Statement of Earnings. Accordingly, the numerators used in our calculations
of returns on average shareowners  equity and average total capital invested,
presented in the Selected Financial Data section, exclude those earnings
(losses). Further, we believe that it is appropriate to exclude from the
denominators, specifically the average total shareowners  equity component, the
cumulative effect of those earnings for each of the years for which related
discontinued operations were presented, as well as our average net investment in
discontinued operations since the second half of 2005. Had we disposed of these
operations before mid-2005, proceeds would have been applied to reduce
parent-supported debt at GE Capital; however, since parent-supported debt at GE
Capital was retired in the first half of 2005, we have assumed that any proceeds
after that time would have been distributed to shareowners by means of share
repurchases, thus reducing average total shareowners  equity. 

Definitions
indicating how the above-named ratios are calculated using average total
shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, can be found
in the Glossary. 

GE
Income Tax Rate, Excluding GECS Earnings 

Reconciliation
of U.S. Federal Statutory Income Tax Rate to GE Income Tax Rate, Excluding GECS
Earnings 

We
believe that meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an
understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about
the likelihood that particular factors will repeat. In some cases, short-term
patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by large factors or events. For
example, events or trends in a particular segment may be so significant as to
obscure patterns and trends of our industrial or financial services businesses
in total. For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see
our revenue growth without the effect of acquisitions, dispositions and currency
exchange rates, and without the effects of the 2006 and 2004 Olympics
broadcasts, the investigation-related adjustments and the reclassification of
discontinued operations, which if included would overshadow trends in ongoing
revenues. Similarly, we believe that investors would find it useful to compare
our 2007 operating cash flow against our 2006 operating cash flow without the
effects of GECS dividends, which can vary from period to period, and to compare
our GE industrial segment s operating margins without the effects of the
financial services businesses within Infrastructure. 

We
also believe that the sum of GE CFOA plus GE cash from investing activities less
the amounts paid for principal businesses purchased and dividends paid
represents an informative measure of cash available for investing and financing
activities that we refer to as free cash flow. 

Delinquency
Rates on Certain Financing Receivables 

Delinquency
rates on managed Commercial Finance equipment loans and leases and managed GE
Money financing receivables follow. 

COMMERCIAL
FINANCE 

GE
MONEY 

(a) 

Not
      meaningful. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 110 

Supplemental
Information 

The
increase in off-book delinquency for GE Money in the U.S. from 5.49% at December
31, 2006, to 6.64% at December 31, 2007, reflects both a change in the mix of
the receivables securitized during 2007 - for example, our
Care Credit receivables which generally have a higher delinquency rate than our
core private label credit card portfolio - as well as the rise
in delinquency across the broader portfolio of U.S. credit card
receivables. 

We
believe that delinquency rates on managed financing receivables provide a useful
perspective on our on and off-book portfolio quality and are key indicators of
financial performance. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 111 

Glossary 

BACKLOG  Unfilled customer
orders for products and product services (12 months for product
services). 

BORROWING  Financial liability
(short or long-term) that obligates us to repay cash or another financial asset
to another entity. 

BORROWINGS AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL
CAPITAL INVESTED  For GE, the sum of borrowings and mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock, divided by the sum of borrowings, mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock, minority interest and total shareowners  equity. 

CASH EQUIVALENTS  Highly liquid
debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less, such as
commercial paper. Typically included with cash for reporting purposes, unless
designated as available-for-sale and included with investment
securities. 

CASH FLOW HEDGES  Qualifying
derivative instruments that we use to protect ourselves against exposure to
volatility in future cash flows. The exposure may be associated with an existing
asset or liability, or with a forecasted transaction. See  Hedge.  

COMMERCIAL PAPER  Unsecured,
unregistered promise to repay borrowed funds in a specified period ranging from
overnight to 270 days. 

DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENT  A
financial instrument or contract with another party (counterparty) that is
structured to meet any of a variety of financial objectives, including those
related to fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity
prices. Options, forwards and swaps are the most common derivative instruments
we employ. See  Hedge.  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 
Certain businesses we have sold or committed to sell within the next year and
which will no longer be part of our ongoing operations. The net earnings, assets
and liabilities, and cash flows of such businesses are separately classified on
our Statement of Earnings, Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Cash
Flows, respectively, for all periods presented. 

EARNED PREMIUMS  Portion of the
premium, net of any amount ceded, pertaining to the segment of the policy period
for which insurance coverage has been provided. 

EFFECTIVE TAX RATE  Provision
for income taxes as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before
income taxes and accounting changes. Does not represent cash paid for income
taxes in the current accounting period. Also referred to as  actual tax rate  or
 tax rate.  

EQUIPMENT LEASED TO OTHERS 
Rental equipment we own that is available to rent and is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation. 

FAIR VALUE HEDGE  Qualifying
derivative instruments that we use to reduce the risk of changes in the fair
value of assets, liabilities or certain types of firm commitments. Changes in
the fair values of derivative instruments that are designated and effective as
fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, but are offset by corresponding
changes in the fair values of the hedged items. See  Hedge.  

FINANCING RECEIVABLES 
Investment in contractual loans and leases due from customers (not investment
securities). 

FORWARD CONTRACT  Fixed price
contract for purchase or sale of a specified quantity of a commodity, security,
currency or other financial instrument with delivery and settlement at a
specified future date. Commonly used as a hedging tool. See
 Hedge.  

GOODWILL  The premium paid for
acquisition of a business. Calculated as the purchase price less the fair value
of net assets acquired (net assets are identified tangible and intangible
assets, less liabilities assumed). 

GUARANTEED INVESTMENT CONTRACTS
(GICS)  Deposit-type products that guarantee a minimum rate of return,
which may be fixed or floating. 

HEDGE  A technique designed to
eliminate risk. Often refers to the use of derivative financial instruments to
offset changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices,
although many business positions are  naturally hedged  - for example, funding
a U.S. fixed-rate investment with U.S. fixed-rate borrowings is a natural
interest rate hedge. 

INTANGIBLE ASSET  A
non-financial asset lacking physical substance, such as goodwill, patents,
licenses, trademarks and customer relationships. 

INTEREST RATE SWAP  Agreement
under which two counterparties agree to exchange one type of interest rate cash
flow for another. In a typical arrangement, one party periodically will pay a
fixed amount of interest, in exchange for which that party will receive variable
payments computed using a published index. See  Hedge.  

INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
Generally, an instrument that provides an ownership position in a corporation (a
stock), a creditor relationship with a corporation or governmental body (a
bond), or rights to ownership such as those represented by options, subscription
rights and subscription warrants. 

MANAGED RECEIVABLES  Total
receivable amounts on which we continue to perform billing and collection
activities, including receivables that have been sold with and without credit
recourse and are no longer reported on our balance sheet. 

MATCH FUNDING  A risk control
policy that provides funds for a particular financial asset having the same
currency, maturity and interest rate characteristics as that asset. Match
funding ensures that we maintain initial financing spreads or margins for the
life of a financial asset, and is executed directly, by issuing debt, or
synthetically, through a combination of debt and derivative financial
instruments. For example, when we lend at a fixed interest rate in the U.S., we
can borrow those U.S. dollars either at a fixed rate of interest or at a
floating rate executed concurrently with a pay-fixed interest rate swap. See
 Hedge.  

MONETIZATION  Sale of financial
assets to a third party for cash. For example, we sell certain loans, credit
card receivables and trade receivables to third-party financial buyers,
typically providing 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 112 

Glossary 

at
least some credit protection and often agreeing to provide collection and
processing services for a fee. Monetization normally results in gains on
interest-bearing assets and losses on non-interest bearing assets. See
 Securitization  and  Variable Interest Entity.  

OPERATING PROFIT  GE earnings
from continuing operations before interest and other financial charges, income
taxes and effects of accounting changes. 

OPTION  The right, not the
obligation, to execute a transaction at a designated price, generally involving
equity interests, interest rates, currencies or commodities. See
 Hedge.  

PREMIUM  Rate that is charged
under insurance/reinsurance contracts. 

PRODUCT SERVICES  For purposes
of the financial statement display of sales and costs of sales in our Statement
of Earnings,  goods  is required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations to include all sales of tangible products, and  services  must
include all other sales, including broadcasting and other services activities.
In our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Operations we refer to sales of
both spare parts (goods) and related services as sales of  product services, 
which is an important part of our operations. 

PRODUCT SERVICES AGREEMENTS 
Contractual commitments, with multiple-year terms, to provide specified services
for products in our Infrastructure installed base - for example,
monitoring, maintenance, overhaul and spare parts for a gas turbine/generator
set installed in a customer s power plant. 

PRODUCTIVITY  The rate of
increased output for a given level of input, with both output and input measured
in constant currency. A decline in output for a given level of input is
 negative  productivity. 

PROGRESS COLLECTIONS  Payments
received from customers as deposits before the associated work is performed or
product is delivered. 

REINSURANCE  A form of
insurance that insurance companies buy for their own protection. 

RETAINED INTEREST  A portion of
a transferred financial asset retained by the transferor that provides rights to
receive portions of the cash inflows from that asset. 

RETURN ON AVERAGE SHAREOWNERS 
EQUITY  Earnings from continuing operations before accounting changes
divided by average total shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued
operations (on an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average). Average
total shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, as of
the end of each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2007, is
described in the Supplemental Information section. 

RETURN ON AVERAGE TOTAL CAPITAL
INVESTED  For GE, earnings from continuing operations before accounting
changes plus the sum of after-tax interest and other financial charges and
minority interest, divided by the sum of the averages of total shareowners 
equity (excluding effects of discontinued operations), borrowings, mandatorily
redeemable preferred stock and minority interest (on an annual basis, calculated
using a five-point average). Average total shareowners  equity, excluding
effects of discontinued operations as of the end of each of the years in the
five-year period ended December 31, 2007, is described in the Supplemental
Information section. 

SECURITIZATION  A process
whereby loans or other receivables are packaged, underwritten and sold to
investors. In a typical transaction, assets are sold to a special purpose
entity, which purchases the assets with cash raised through issuance of
beneficial interests (usually debt instruments) to third-party investors.
Whether or not credit risk associated with the securitized assets is retained by
the seller depends on the structure of the securitization. See  Monetization 
and  Variable Interest Entity.  

SUBPRIME  For purposes of GE
Money related discussion, subprime includes credit card, installment and
revolving loans to U.S. borrowers whose FICO credit score is less than 660. FICO
credit scores are a widely accepted rating of individual consumer
creditworthiness. 

TURNOVER  Broadly based on the
number of times that working capital is replaced during a year. Accounts
receivable turnover is total sales divided by the five-point average balance of
customer receivables from sales of goods and services (trade receivables).
Inventory turnover is total sales divided by a five-point average balance of
inventories. See  Working Capital.  

UNEARNED PREMIUMS  Portion of
the premium received, net of any amount ceded, that relates to future coverage
periods. 

UNPAID CLAIMS AND CLAIMS ADJUSTMENT
EXPENSES  Claims reserves for events that have occurred, including both
reported and incurred-but-not-reported (IBNR) reserves, and the expenses of
settling such claims. 

VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITY 
Entity defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation 46
(Revised), and that must be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. A variable
interest entity has one or both of the following characteristics: (1) its equity
at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) as a group,
the equity investors lack one or more of the following characteristics: (a)
direct/indirect ability to make decisions, (b) obligation to absorb expected
losses, or (c) right to receive expected residual returns. 

WORKING CAPITAL  Sum of
receivables from the sales of goods and services, plus inventories, less trade
accounts payables and progress collections. 

GE
2007 ANNUAL REPORT PAGE 113 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 ex21.htm

ex21.htm 

Exhibit
21 

SUBSIDIARIES
OF REGISTRANT 

General
Electric s principal affiliates as of December 31, 2007, are listed below. All
other affiliates, if considered in the aggregate as a single affiliate, would
not constitute a significant affiliate. 

AFFILIATES
OF REGISTRANT INCLUDED IN REGISTRANT S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Percentage
      of voting 

                  securities
      directly or 

                  indirectly
      owned by 

                  registrant
       (1)  

State
      or Country 

                  of
      incorporation 

                  or
      organization 

Amersham
      Health Norge AS 

100 

Norway 

Amersham
      plc 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

Bently
      Nevada, LLC 

100 

Delaware 

Cardinal
      Cogen, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

Caribe
      GE International of Puerto Rico, Inc.  

100 

Puerto
      Rico 

Datex-Ohmeda,
      Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

Everest
      VIT, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GEA
      Parts, LLC 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Aviation Service Operation LLP  

100 

Singapore 

GE
      Caledonian Limited  

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Canada Company 

100 

Canada 

GE
      Drives   Controls, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Druck Holdings Limited  

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Energy Europe B.V.  

100 

Netherlands 

GE
      Energy Holding SAS 

100 

France 

GE
      Energy Netherlands, B.V. 

100 

Netherlands 

GE
      Energy Parts, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Energy Products France SNC  

100 

France 

GE
      Energy Services, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services - Dallas, LP 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services Distribution, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services UNC Holding I, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Funding Finland KY 

100 

Finland 

GE
      Fanuc Intelligent Platforms, Inc. 

55 

Delaware 

GE
      Fanuc Automation Corporation  

50 

Delaware 

GE
      Gas Turbines (Greenville) L.L.C. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Generators (Pensacola), L.L.C. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Healthcare AS 

100 

Norway 

GE
      Healthcare Bio-Sciences AB 

100 

Sweden 

GE
      Healthcare Finland Oy  

100 

Finland 

GE
      Healthcare Ltd. 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Healthcare Norge AS 

100 

Norway 

GE
      Hungary Co. Ltd. 

100 

Hungary 

Page
1 of 3 

Percentage
      of voting 

                  securities
      directly or 

                  indirectly
      owned by 

                  registrant
       (1)  

State
      or Country 

                  of
      incorporation 

                  or
      organization 

GE
      Infrastructure, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Ionics, Inc. 

100 

Massachusetts 

GE
      Inspection and Repair Services Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Jenbacher GmbH 

100 

Austria 

GE
      Jenbacher GmbH   Co OHG 

100 

Austria 

GE
      Keppel Energy Services Pte. Ltd. 

50 

Singapore 

GE
      Medical Systems Global Technology Company, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Medical Systems Information Technologies, Inc.  

100 

Wisconsin 

GE
      Medical Systems Societe en Commandite Simple 

100 

France 

GE
      Medical Systems, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Medical Systems, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Medical Systems, Ultrasound   Primary Care Diagnostics
      LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Military Systems  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Osmonics, Inc.  

100 

Minnesota 

GE
      Pacific Pte Ltd 

100 

Singapore 

GE
      Packaged Power, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Packaged Power, L.P. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Security, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Transportation Parts, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Transportation Systems Global Signaling, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Water   Process Technologies Canada 

100 

Canada 

GE
      Wind Energy, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Yokogawa Medical Systems Ltd.  

100 

Japan,
      Ryukyu Islands 

GEA
      Products LP  

100 

Delaware 

GEAE
      Technology, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GEFH
      AS 

100 

Norway 

GENE
      Holding LLC 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric (Bermuda) Ltd.  

100 

Bermuda 

General
      Electric Canada Company 

100 

Canada 

General
      Electric CGR Europe SAS  

100 

France 

General
      Electric Europe Holdings C.V. 

100 

Netherlands 

General
      Electric Financing C.V. 

100 

Netherlands 

General
      Electric International (Benelux) BV  

100 

Netherlands 

General
      Electric International, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric Services (Bermuda) Ltd. 

100 

Bermuda 

Granite
      Services, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

IDX
      Systems Corporation 

100 

Vermont 

MRA
      Systems, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

NBC
      Universal, Inc.  

80 

Delaware 

Nuclear
      Fuel Holding Co., Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

Nuovo
      Pignone S.p.A. 

100 

Italy 

Nuovo
      Pignone Holding, S.p.A.  

99 

Italy 

Nuovo
      Pignone International SARL 

100 

Luxembourg 

OEC
      Medical Systems, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

Page
2 of 3 

Percentage
      of voting 

                  securities
      directly or 

                  indirectly
      owned by 

                  registrant
       (1)  

State
      or Country 

                  of
      incorporation 

                  or
      organization 

Panametrics
      Ltd. 

100 

Bermuda 

PII
      Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

Reuter-Stokes,
      Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

Unison
      Industries, LLC 

100 

Delaware 

Vetco
      Gray U.K. Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

Viceroy,
      Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric Capital Services, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric Capital Corporation 

100 

Delaware 

(1) 

With
      respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying
      shares in names of directors are included in above
      percentages. 

Page
3 of 3 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 ex23.htm

ex23.htm 

Exhibit
23 

        Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The
Board of Directors 

        General
Electric Company: 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form
S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-50639, 33-39596, 33-39596-01, 33-29024, 333-59671,
333-120155, 333-72566 and 333-130117), on Form S-4 (Registration No.
333-107556), and on Form S-8 (Registration Nos. 333-01953, 333-42695, 333-74415,
333-83164, 333-98877, 333-94101, 333-65781, 333-88233, 333-117855, 333-99671,
333-102111 and 333-142452) of General Electric Company of our report dated
February 20, 2008, with respect to the statement of financial position of
General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates as of December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners  equity and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
2007, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007, which report appears in the December 31, 2007 annual report
on Form 10-K of General Electric Company. 

Our
report refers to a change in the methods of accounting for uncertainty in income
taxes and for a change or projected change in the timing of cash flows relating
to income taxes generated by leveraged lease transactions in 2007, and to a
change in the methods of accounting for pension and other post retirement
benefits and for share based compensation in 2006. 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 7
 ex24.htm

ex24.htm 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL
MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned, being a director or officer
of General Electric Company, a New York corporation (the  Company ), hereby
constitutes and appoints Jeffrey R. Immelt, Brackett B. Denniston III, Keith S.
Sherin, Philip D. Ameen, Michael R. McAlevey, and Christoph A. Pereira, and each
of them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power
of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place
and stead in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports for the
Company s fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, on Form 10-K under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other form as any such
attorney-in-fact may deem necessary or desirable, any amendments thereto, and
all additional amendments thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them
may approve, and to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents
in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and
authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary
to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable Rules and Regulations adopted or
issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or she
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their substitute or
resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand this
19 th  day of February,
2008. 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chairman
      of the Board 

(Principal
      Executive 

Officer
      and Director) 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

/s/
      Philip D. Ameen 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Philip
      D. Ameen 

Vice
      Chairman and 

                Chief
      Financial Officer 

Vice
      President and Comptroller 

(Principal
      Accounting Officer) 

(Principal
      Financial Officer) 

(Page 1
of 2) 

/s/
      James I. Cash, Jr. 

/s/
      Ralph S. Larsen 

James
      I. Cash, Jr. 

Ralph
      S. Larsen 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      William M. Castell 

/s/
      Rochelle B. Lazarus 

William
      M. Castell 

Rochelle
      B. Lazarus 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Ann M. Fudge 

/s/
      Sam Nunn 

Ann
      M. Fudge 

Sam
      Nunn 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Claudio X. Gonzalez 

/s/
      Roger S. Penske 

Claudio
      X. Gonzalez 

Roger
      S. Penske 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Susan Hockfield 

/s/
      Robert J. Swieringa 

Susan
      Hockfield 

Robert
      J. Swieringa 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Andrea Jung 

/s/
      Douglas A. Warner III 

Andrea
      Jung 

Douglas
      A. Warner III 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Alan G. Lafley 

/s/
      Robert C. Wright 

Alan
      G. Lafley 

Robert
      C. Wright 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Robert W. Lane 

Robert
      W. Lane 

Director 

A
MAJORITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

      (Page 2
of 2) 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 8
 ex31a.htm

ex31a.htm 

Exhibit
31(a) 

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 

      RULES
13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS
AMENDED 

I,
      Jeffrey R. Immelt, certify that: 

1.  

I
      have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric
      Company; 

2

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3.  

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4.  

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)  

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)  

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)  

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
      directors: 

a)  

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b)  

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 19, 2008 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 9
 ex31b.htm

ex31b.htm 

Exhibit
31(b) 

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 

      RULES
13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS
AMENDED 

I,
      Keith S. Sherin, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric
      Company; 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)  

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)  

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)  

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5.  

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of
      directors: 

a)  

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b)  

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 19, 2008 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32>
 10
 ex32.htm

ex32.htm 

Exhibit
32 

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 

      18
U.S.C. SECTION 1350 

In
connection with the Annual Report of General Electric Company (the  registrant )
on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2007 as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  report ), we, Jeffrey R. Immelt
and Keith S. Sherin, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
respectively, of the registrant, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to our knowledge: 

(1)
The report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(2)
The information contained in the report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
registrant. 

February
      19, 2008 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-32>

