<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100219_10-K_edgar_data_40545_0000040545-10-000010_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>22391867</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1489075</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>351135</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9975854</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3914346</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4262054</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>193</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000040545-10-000010.hdr.sgml : 20100219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100219171621
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000040545-10-000010
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		22
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GENERAL ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000040545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]
		IRS NUMBER:				140689340
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00035
		FILM NUMBER:		10620396

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3135 EASTON TURNPIKE
		STREET 2:		W3F
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06828
		BUSINESS PHONE:		203-373-2211

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3135 EASTON TURNPIKE
		STREET 2:		W3F
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06828

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MKDbUp8Zi3KWTqy7OnNo4Z5/klRDAp4mVarncS7kTZ8EcXk7Wt82kw5hJrNp2rZK
 gT1G3eltRGkgySJLFfxlEA==

 0000040545-10-000010.txt : 20100219

10-K
 1
 frm10k.htm

frm10k.htm 

United
States Securities and Exchange Commission 

      WASHINGTON,
D.C. 20549 

FORM
10-K 

(Mark
      One) 

Annual
      Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934 

For
      the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 

or 

Transition
      Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934 

For
      the transition period from ___________to ___________ 

Commission
      file number 001-00035 

General
      Electric Company 

                (Exact
      name of registrant as specified in
charter) 

Securities
      Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 

(Title
      of class) 

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes     No     

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes     No     

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes     No     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 

Large
      accelerated filer     

Accelerated
      filer     

Non-accelerated
      filer     

Smaller
      reporting company     

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). Yes     No     

The
aggregate market value of the outstanding common equity of the registrant as of
the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal
quarter was $124.9 billion. Affiliates of the Company beneficially own, in the
aggregate, less than one-tenth of one percent of such shares. There were
10,669,821,000 shares of voting common stock with a par value of $0.06
outstanding at January 29, 2010. 

DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 

The
definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant s Annual Meeting of
Shareowners, to be held April 28, 2010, is incorporated by reference in Part III
to the extent described therein. 

(1) 

Table
of Contents 

Page 

Part I  

Item 1.  

Business 

3 

Item 1A.  

Risk
      Factors 

14 

Item 1B.  

Unresolved
      Staff Comments 

20 

Item 2.  

Properties 

20 

Item 3.  

Legal
      Proceedings 

20 

Item 4.  

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 

21 

Part II  

Item 5.  

Market
      for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
      Issuer 

Purchases
      of Equity Securities 

22 

Item 6.  

Selected
      Financial Data 

25 

Item 7.  

Management s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations 

26 

Item 7A.  

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

81 

Item 8.  

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data 

81 

Item 9.  

Changes
      in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting 

and
      Financial Disclosure 

168 

Item 9A.  

Controls
      and Procedures 

168 

Item 9B.  

Other
      Information 

168 

Part III  

Item 10.  

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 

168 

Item 11.  

Executive
      Compensation 

169 

Item 12.  

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and 

Related
      Stockholder Matters 

169 

Item 13.  

Certain
      Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence 

169 

Item 14.  

Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services 

169 

Part IV  

Item 15.  

Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules 

170 

Signatures  

175 

(2) 

Part
I 

Item
1. Business.  

General 

Unless
otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms  GE,   GECS  and  GE
Capital  on the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data  of this Form 10-K Report. Also, unless otherwise indicated by the context,
 General Electric  means the parent company, General Electric Company (the
Company). 

General
Electric s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain
executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT
06828-0001. 

We are
one of the largest and most diversified technology, media, and financial
services corporations in the world. With products and services ranging from
aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and household appliances
to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and
industrial products, we serve customers in more than 100 countries and employ
about 300,000 people worldwide.  Since our incorporation in 1892, we
have developed or acquired new technologies and services that have broadened and
changed considerably the scope of our activities. 

In
virtually all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and
able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by
changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With
respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of
the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The
NBC Television Network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network.
NBC Universal also competes with other film and television programming producers
and distributors, cable/satellite television networks and theme park operators.
The businesses in which GECS engages are subject to competition from various
types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment
banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan
companies, independent finance companies and finance companies associated with
manufacturers. 

This
document contains  forward-looking statements    that is, statements related to
future, not past, events. In this context, forward-looking statements often
address our expected future business and financial performance and financial
condition, and often contain words such as  expect,   anticipate,   intend, 
 plan,   believe,   seek,   see,  or  will.  Forward-looking statements by their
nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us,
particular uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially
different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: the
severity and duration of current economic and financial conditions, including
volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the
value of financial assets; the impact of U.S. and foreign government programs to
restore liquidity and stimulate national and global economies; the impact of
conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of
GE Capital s funding and on our ability to reduce GE Capital s asset levels as
planned; the impact of conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates
on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; our ability to maintain
our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive
position if we do not do so; the soundness of other financial institutions with
which GE Capital does business; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and
other conditions which may affect our ability to maintain our quarterly dividend
at the current level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major
industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation,
energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of
regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal
compliance risks, including the impact of proposed financial services
regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our
success in integrating acquired businesses; and numerous other matters of
national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic,
business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future
results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking
statements. These uncertainties are described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A.
"Risk Factors" of this Form 10-K Report. We do not undertake to update our
forward-looking statements. 

(3) 

Our
consolidated global revenues were $84.3 billion in 2009, compared with $97.2
billion in 2008 and $86.3 billion in 2007. For additional information about our
geographic operations, see the Geographic Operations section in Part II, Item 7.
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Operating
Segments 

Segment
revenue and profit information and additional financial data and commentary on
recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment
Operations section in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and in Note 27 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Operating
businesses that are reported as segments include Energy Infrastructure,
Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer  
Industrial. Net earnings of GECS and the effect of transactions between segments
are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of
each of our operating segments follows. 

Results
for 2009 and prior periods in this section are reported on the basis under which
we managed our business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010
reorganization described in this section. 

We also
continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information for
certain businesses within the segments. 

Energy
Infrastructure 

Energy
Infrastructure (23.7%, 21.1% and 17.8% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation
and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as
wind, oil, gas and water. 

Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and
Africa. 

Energy 

Energy
serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide
with products and services related to energy production, distribution and
management. We offer wind turbines as part of our renewable energy portfolio,
which also includes solar technology. We also sell aircraft engine derivatives
for use as industrial power sources. We sell gas turbines and generators that
are used principally in power plants for generation of electricity and for
industrial cogeneration and mechanical drive applications. We are a leading
provider of Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) technology design and
development. IGCC systems convert coal and other hydrocarbons into synthetic gas
that, after cleanup, is used as the primary fuel for gas turbines in
combined-cycle systems. IGCC systems produce fewer air pollutants compared with
traditional pulverized coal power plants. We sell steam turbines and generators
to the electric utility industry and to private industrial customers for
cogeneration applications. Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both
new and installed boiling water reactors are offered through joint ventures with
Hitachi and Toshiba. In addition, we design and manufacture motors and control
systems used in industrial applications primarily for oil and gas extraction and
mining. We provide our customers with total solutions to meet their needs
through a complete portfolio of aftermarket services, including equipment
upgrades, long-term maintenance service agreements, repairs, equipment
installation, monitoring and diagnostics, asset management and performance
optimization tools, remote performance testing and Dry Low NOx (DLN) tuning. We
continue to invest in advanced technology development that will provide more
value to our customers and more efficient solutions that comply with today s
strict environmental regulations. 

In
addition, Energy offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal
water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals,
water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid handling equipment
for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems,
including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes. 

(4) 

Energy
is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain
aero-derivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Energy, but
counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and
component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2009, such counterparty
interests ranged from 5% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to
such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production. 

Worldwide
competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for
power generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and
political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of
regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as
we plan for future development. 

Effective
January 1, 2010, the Sensing   Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy
businesses of the Enterprise Solutions business in the Technology Infrastructure
segment and the Industrial business in the Consumer   Industrial segment
became part of the Energy business. 

Oil
  Gas 

Our
technology helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use
of the world's energy resources. 

Oil
  Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas
industry, used in applications spanning the entire value chain from drilling and
completion through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline
compression, pipeline inspection, and including downstream processing in
refineries and petrochemical plants. The business designs and manufactures
surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating
production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure
reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary
equipment. 

To
ensure that the installed base is maintained at peak condition, our service
business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world's main oil and
gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to
customers  machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production
capability and environmental performance. 

For
information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part
II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Technology
Infrastructure 

Technology
Infrastructure (27.1%, 25.4% and 24.8% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively) is one of the world s leading providers of essential
technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world,
we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology
infrastructure. 

Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South
America. 

Aviation 

Aviation
produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and
related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our
military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters,
bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine
applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of
range: short/medium, intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and
regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International,
a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and
Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt   Whitney
division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed
and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls-Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc.,
a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd. 

Aviation
is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production
responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These
agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing
programs. 

(5) 

Joint
ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require
negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all
of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities.
Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains
related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of
CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance,
LLC. 

Revenue
sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product
programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation,
but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and
component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2009, such counterparty
interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to
such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production. 

Aviation
also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne
platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products,
mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components
for use in both military and commercial aircraft. 

We
provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including
sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of
engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under
long-term maintenance contracts. 

The
worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is
intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles
are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research
and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused
intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design,
manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services
are subject to a number of regulatory standards. 

Potential
sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological
lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in
technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of
relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military
and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each
other. 

Enterprise
Solutions 

Enterprise
Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure,
moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection
equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.
Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies,
including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring
equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. In addition, it
provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality
products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks
and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant
automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including
controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator
interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions.
Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential,
commercial and industrial end-users, including utilities, original equipment
manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and
transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and
sold in global markets. 

During
2009, Enterprise Solutions sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and
detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. GE also dissolved
its joint venture with FANUC Ltd. resulting in GE retaining the global software,
services, embedded systems and control systems businesses. In addition, during
2009 GE signed a definitive agreement with United Technologies Corporation to
sell our security and life safety solutions business, GE Security. The sale is
expected to close in early 2010. 

(6) 

Effective
January 1, 2010, the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms
business was included in our newly-created segment, Home   Business
Solutions. The Sensing   Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy
businesses became part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure
segment. The Security business will be reported in Corporate Items and
Eliminations pending its expected sale. 

Healthcare 

Healthcare
has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical
diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and
biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and
detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and
helping them to tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells
and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast,
non-invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the
ER, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or
brain disorders. With X-ray, digital mammography, Computed Tomography (CT),
Magnetic Resonance (MR) and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates
industry-leading products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body
more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies
include patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone
densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care
devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic
imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery,
biopharmaceutical manufacturing and the latest in cellular
technologies. 

Our
product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical
equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data
management and customer productivity services. 

We
compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services
operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high
product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the
key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Throughout
the world, we play a role in delivering new technology to improve patient
outcomes and productivity tools to help control healthcare costs. 

Our
products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including
the FDA, as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare,
Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs. 

Transportation 

Transportation
provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including
railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve
customers in more than 100 countries. 

Transportation
manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the
Evolution Series , the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient
locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency s
Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the
mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors
operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large
haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs,
and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation
applications. We also provide gearing technology for critical applications such
as wind turbines. 

Transportation
also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet
efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive
enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote
monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway
management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize
asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators.
We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability,
optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan. 

For
information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part
II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report. 

(7) 

NBC
Universal 

NBC
Universal (NBCU) (9.8%, 9.3% and 8.9% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company focused on
the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information
to a global audience. NBCU, which is 80-percent owned by General Electric and
20-percent owned by Vivendi S.A., is engaged in the production and distribution
of film and television programming; the operation of cable/satellite television
networks around the world; the broadcast of network television through owned and
affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and
programming activities in digital media and the Internet. Our film company,
Universal Pictures, is engaged in the production and world-wide distribution of
theatrical, home entertainment and television programming. We own the theme park
Universal Studios Hollywood, operate and hold an ownership interest in the
Universal Studios Florida theme parks and brand, design and develop
international theme parks under exclusive licenses. Our cable/satellite
television networks provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and
information programming to households world-wide. Our cable/satellite television
networks include USA, Bravo, CNBC, SYFY, MSNBC, Oxygen, UniHD, Chiller, Sleuth,
mun2 and branded channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC
television network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network.
Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, our U.S. Spanish-language
broadcast television network, serve 234 affiliated stations within the United
States. At December 31, 2009, we owned and operated 26 television stations each
subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. We have exclusive
U.S. television rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games, National Football
League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012. 

NBCU is
subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations.
Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are in
extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising
patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or
unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon
our ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long-term programming contracts,
including event-based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of
our programming to cable/satellite operators. Our television and film production
and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of
releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets.
Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and
electronic sell-through offer entertainment options through new media,
introducing uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the
unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming,
increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to
protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use. 

On
December 3, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to
transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will
consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation's cable networks,
regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated
investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash and will own a
49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have classified NBCU
assets and liabilities as held for sale at December 31, 2009. The transaction is
subject to receipt of various regulatory approvals and is expected to close
within the next year. 

NBC
Universal s headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout
North America, Europe, South America and Asia. 

Capital
Finance 

Capital
Finance (32.3%, 36.7% and 38.4% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively) offers a broad range of financial products and services worldwide.
Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial
programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial
services. 

During
2009, General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) provided $72 billion of
new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and
municipalities. Additionally, we extended $74 billion of credit to approximately
54 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 14,200
new commercial customers and 40,000 new small businesses during 2009 in the U.S.
and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 346,000 commercial
customers and 174,000 small businesses through retail programs in the
U.S. 

(8) 

Within
our Capital Finance operating segment, we operate the businesses described below
along product lines. 

Our
operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and
Asia. 

Capital
Finance has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI)
over the next three years. To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively
focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have
domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent
return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We
have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that
are deemed to be non-strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in
our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going
forward. 

Effective
January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes
all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In
addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in
GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and
Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in
Consumer, will be included in CLL. Results for 2009 and prior periods are
reported on the basis under which we managed our business in 2009 and do not
reflect the January 2010 reorganization. 

Commercial
Lending and Leasing 

CLL
provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions.
We have particular mid-market expertise, and offer loans, leases and other
financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and
end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets
include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate
aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction,
manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and
healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in
Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer
businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the
U.K. and the credit card business in Ireland. 

Historically,
we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include
commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies
associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition
related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is,
interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently,
competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to
and availability of capital and a reduced number of competitors. Profitability
is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit
quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful
management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate
and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management
systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and
distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal
structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and
productivity. 

In the
first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL)
following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in
PTL. 

Consumer 

Consumer,
through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of
financial services to consumers and retailers in over 40 countries around the
world. We offer a full range of innovative financial products to suit customers 
needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards;
personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt
consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small
and medium enterprise lending. 

In
December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). In the third quarter of
2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which comprised our Japanese
personal loan business (Lake) and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses,
excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. 

(9) 

In
October 2008, we completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In
early 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and
Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card
business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A., which
were included in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale on the
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008. 

In the
first quarter of 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian
residential mortgage business. 

In June
2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired
a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC). 

Our
operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations.
Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in
financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types
of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies,
consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers  captive
finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the
basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management,
and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks
from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the
consumer s capacity to repay debt. 

Real
Estate 

Real
Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions,
including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and
floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial
real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan
structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings,
apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and
industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term,
senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by existing income-producing
commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for,
portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt
bonds. 

We own
and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing
property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business
operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is
economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are
affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and
demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of
future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs. 

Our
competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real
estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity
investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending
business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal
structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the
economic and political environment of each country in which we do
business. 

Energy
Financial Services 

Energy
Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership
financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance to the global
energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries.
Energy Financial Services also owns a controlling interest in Regency Energy
Partners LP, a midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering,
processing, transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas
liquids. 

We
operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks,
financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and
leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest
rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our
success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country
in which we do business. 

(10) 

GE
Capital Aviation Services 

GECAS
engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and
financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry.
Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger
aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions;
aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also
co-sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large
infrastructure projects including gateway airports. GECAS also has in its
portfolio a wide array of products including leases, debt and equity investments
to the global transportation industry (marine, rail and
intermodal). 

We
operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft
manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other
finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing
terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available
capital demand for financing. 

Consumer
  Industrial 

Consumer
  Industrial (6.2%, 6.4% and 7.3% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics  
competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and
service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive
markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of
differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy
efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. While some Consumer  
Industrial products such as major appliances are primarily directed to consumer
applications, and some primarily to industrial applications such as switchgear,
others, such as lighting, are directed to both markets. 

We sell
and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric
and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave
ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for filtration,
softening and heating. Brands are GE Monogram , GE Profile , GE , Hotpoint  and
GE Caf  . 

We
manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component
parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances
sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed
units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is
our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment
manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing
in-home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a
variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets,
including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity
discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products. 

Consumer
  Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used
to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and
distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power
panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage
power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial
applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the
delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial
lighting systems. 

Effective
January 1, 2010, the Industrial business became part of the Energy business
within the Energy Infrastructure segment and the Appliances and Lighting portion
of the Consumer and Industrial business became part of our newly-created
segment, Home   Business Solutions. 

Our
headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky and our operations are located in North
America, Europe, Asia and Latin America. 

Discontinued
Operations 

Discontinued
operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan, WMC and Plastics. 

For
further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7.
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

(11) 

Geographic
Data 

Geographic
data are reported in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Additional
financial data about our geographic operations is provided in the Geographic
Operations section in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Orders
Backlog 

GE s
total backlog  of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2009 was
$67.3 billion, a decrease of 4% from year-end 2008, reflecting decreased demand
at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology
Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.3 billion related to products, of which 61%
was scheduled for delivery in 2010. Product services orders, included in this
reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $21.0 billion at the
end of 2009. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were
approximately $108 billion, which combined with the firm unfilled orders
described above resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175 billion at
December 31, 2009. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by
customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations
section in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report for further
information.  

Research
and Development 

GE-funded
research and development expenditures were $3.3 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.0
billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, research and
development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled
$1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Technology Infrastructure s Aviation business accounts for the
largest share of GE s research and development expenditures with funding from
both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructure s Energy business and
Technology Infrastructure s Healthcare business also made significant
expenditures funded primarily by GE. 

Expenditures
reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management
purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology.
These technology expenditures were $5.2 billion in 2009 and included our
reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to
improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our
plants, equipment and processes. 

Environmental
Matters 

Our
operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under
environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of
remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation
actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a
disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to
approximately $0.3 billion in both 2009 and 2008. We presently expect that such
remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4
billion over the next two years. 

(12) 

In
November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent
decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for
implementation of EPA's 2002 Record of Decision to dredge polychlorinated
biphenyl (PCB)-containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. Under the consent
degree, the dredging is to be performed in two phases and Phase I was completed
in May through November of 2009. Between Phase I and Phase II there will be an
intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel
will evaluate the performance of Phase I dredging operations with respect to
Phase I Engineering Performance Standards, evaluate experience gained from Phase
I and may set forth proposed changes to the standards. This evaluation is
expected to conclude in the summer of 2010 after which EPA, considering the peer
review panel's recommendations, GE's proposed changes, and its own analysis,
will issue its regulatory decision setting forth any changes to the scope of, or
performance standards for, Phase II. Following EPA's decision, GE has 90 days to
either elect to perform Phase II or to opt out of the project, at which point GE
may be responsible for further costs. Our statement of financial position as of
December 31, 2009, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of
the project under the consent decree. 

Employee
Relations 

At
year-end 2009, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed
approximately 304,000 persons, of whom approximately 134,000 were employed in
the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6.
 Selected Financial Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Approximately
15,600 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are
represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 110
different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union
locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE-CWA,
The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC.
During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four-year contracts with unions
representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United
States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011. 

Approximately
3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United
States are covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a
party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates
and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE
affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with
varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,400
employees. 

Executive
Officers 

See Part
III, Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  of this
Form 10-K Report for information about Executive Officers of the
Registrant. 

Other 

Because
of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic
dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide
variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely
affected by the inability to obtain raw materials. 

We own,
or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being
obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents
expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to
others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent
or group of related patents. 

(13) 

Sales of
goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of
revenues follow. 

GE is a
trademark and service mark of General Electric Company. 

The
Company s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments
to those reports are available, without charge, on our website,
www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate
Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports
filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public
Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the
Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience
and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by
reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.
Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this
report. 

Item
1A. Risk Factors.  

The
following discussion of risk factors contains  forward-looking statements,  as
discussed in Item 1.  Business . These risk factors may be important to
understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The
following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7.
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  (MD A), and the consolidated financial statements and related
notes in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this
Form 10-K Report. 

Our
businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our
future results to be different   sometimes materially different   than we
presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our
businesses encounter can be found in the MD A section and in the business
descriptions in Item 1.  Business  of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe
certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material
future developments as well as our competitors  reactions to those developments
will affect our future results. 

Our
global growth is subject to economic and political risks. 

We
conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. In 2009,
approximately 54% of our revenues was attributable to activities outside the
United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition.
They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation,
recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which may be
disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our
activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged
using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such
attempts to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our
ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as
a result of current market conditions. 

We
are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that may change in
significant ways. 

Our
businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and
state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies. 

(14) 

There
can be no assurance that laws and regulations will not be changed in ways that
will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our
returns on investments by making existing practices more restricted, subject to
escalating costs or prohibited outright. In particular, U.S. and non-U.S.
governments are undertaking a substantial review and revision of the regulation
and supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions, consumer lending,
the over-the-counter derivatives market and tax laws and regulations, which may
have a significant effect on GE Capital s structure, operations, liquidity and
performance. We are also subject to a number of trade control laws and
regulations that may affect our ability to sell our products in global markets.
In addition, we are subject to regulatory risks from laws that reduce the
allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, local capital requirements
that may increase the risk of not being able to retrieve assets, and changes to
tax law that may affect our return on investments. For example, GE s effective
tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and indefinitely
reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A
significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law
that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial services
income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This
provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial
services companies to compete more effectively with non-U.S. banks and other
non-U.S. financial institutions in global markets. This provision, which expired
at the end of 2009, has been scheduled to expire and has been extended by
Congress on five previous occasions, including in October of 2008. A one-year
extension was passed by the House of Representatives in 2009 and the Senate
Finance Committee Chairman and Ranking Member have indicated an intention to
extend the provision for one year retroactive to the beginning of 2010, but
there can be no assurance that it will be extended. In the event the provision
is not extended after 2009, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial
services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more
difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If
this provision is not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase
significantly after 2010. The executive branch of the U.S. government recently
proposed the Financial Responsibility Crisis Fee, which would require us to pay
a fee at an annual rate of 15 basis points based on the amount of covered
liabilities (defined as assets less the sum of Tier 1 capital and Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-assessed deposits). This proposal is at an
early stage, and its impact on the company, if any, will depend on a number of
factors that are subject to congressional review and approval. If adopted, this
fee could result in a reduction of our earnings going forward. In addition, the
U.S. government is currently considering broad-based legislation to change
healthcare coverage, that includes provisions for a fee on medical devices,
which could adversely affect the profitability of our Healthcare business and
increase the costs of providing healthcare to our employees. Furthermore, we
have been, and expect to continue, participating in U.S. and international
economic stimulus programs, which require us to comply with strict governmental
regulations. Inability to comply with these regulations could adversely affect
our status in these projects and adversely affect our results of operations,
financial position and cash flows. 

We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance
risks.  

We are
subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks. We and our
subsidiaries, our businesses and the industries in which we operate are at times
being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement
actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and
damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a sizable number
of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a
40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in
Item 1.  Business  of this Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain
other legal proceedings described in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  of this Form
10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management
and compliance programs, the global and diverse nature of our operations means
that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal
proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted
with certainty, will arise from time to time. 

(15) 

The
success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic
acquisitions and dispositions. 

With
respect to acquisitions and mergers, we may not be able to identify suitable
candidates at terms acceptable to us or may not achieve expected returns and
other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration challenges,
such as personnel and technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential
disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our
objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter
difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms
in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic
objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms
that are less than we had anticipated. Even upon reaching an agreement with a
buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject
to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which
may prevent us from completing the transaction. For example, we recently entered
into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU
business to a newly formed entity, pursuant to which we will receive cash and
will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. The transaction is subject
to receipt of various regulatory approvals. In addition, there is a risk that we
may sell a business whose subsequent performance exceeds our expectations, in
which case our decision would have potentially sacrificed enterprise
value. 

Sustained
increases in costs of pension and healthcare benefits may reduce our
profitability. 

Our
results of operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of
income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income
or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect
assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may
change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant
year-end assumptions we used to estimate pension income or expense for 2010 are
the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plans assets. In
addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and
liabilities, which may result in a significant change to equity through a
reduction or increase to Accumulated gains (losses)   net, Benefit plans. At the
end of 2009, the projected benefit obligation of our U.S. principal pension
plans was $48.1 billion and assets were $42.1 billion. For a discussion
regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan
accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Estimates   Pension Assumptions in
Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations  and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements
in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form
10-K Report. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not
directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also
likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as
required under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Failure to
achieve expected returns on plan assets could also result in an increase to the
amount of cash we would be required to contribute to pension plans. In addition,
upward pressure on the cost of providing healthcare benefits to current
employees and retirees may increase future funding obligations. Although we have
actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance
that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure
could reduce our profitability. 

(16) 

Conditions
in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability and cost of GE
Capital s funding. 

A large
portion of GE Capital s borrowings is in the form of commercial paper and
long-term debt. GE Capital s outstanding commercial paper and long-term debt was
$42 billion and $399 billion as of December 31, 2009, respectively. While we
have fully prefunded our planned 2010 long-term debt requirements, we continue
to rely on the availability of the unsecured debt markets to access funding for
term maturities beyond 2010. In addition, we rely on the availability of the
commercial paper markets to refinance maturing short-term commercial paper debt
throughout the year. In order to further diversify our funding sources, we also
plan to expand our reliance on alternative sources of funding, including bank
deposits, securitizations and other asset-based funding. There can be no
assurance that we will succeed in diversifying our funding sources or that the
short and long-term credit markets will be available or, if available, that the
cost of funding will not substantially increase and affect the overall
profitability of GE Capital. Factors that may cause an increase in our funding
costs include: a decreased reliance on short-term funding, such as commercial
paper, in favor of longer-term funding arrangements; refinancing of funding that
we have obtained under the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) at
market rates at the time such funding matures; decreased capacity and increased
competition among debt issuers; and our credit ratings in effect at the time of
refinancing. If GE Capital s cost of funding were to increase, it may adversely
affect its competitive position and result in lower lending margins, earnings
and cash flows as well as lower returns on its shareowner s equity and invested
capital. While we currently do not anticipate any equity offerings, other
sources of funding that involve the issuance of additional equity securities
would be dilutive to our existing shareowners. 

Difficult
conditions in the financial services markets have materially and adversely
affected the business and results of operations of GE Capital and these
conditions may persist. 

Declines
in the real estate markets, increased payment defaults and foreclosures and
sustained levels of high unemployment have resulted in significant write-downs
of asset values by financial institutions, including GE Capital. If these
conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
recover fully the value of certain assets, including goodwill, intangibles and
tax assets. In addition, although we   have established
allowances for losses in GE Capital s portfolio of financing receivables that we
believe are adequate, further deterioration in the economy and in default and
recovery rates could require us to increase these allowances and write-offs,
which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse
effect on our   business ,  financial position and
results of operations. To reduce GE s exposure to volatile conditions in the
financial markets and rebalance the relative size of its financial and
industrial businesses, we have decided to reduce the size of GE Capital, as
measured by its ending net investment. There can be no assurance that we will be
able to timely execute on our reduction targets and failure to do so would
result in greater exposure to financial markets than contemplated under our
strategic funding plan or may result in the need for us to make additional
contributions to GE Capital. 

The
soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect GE
Capital. 

GE
Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and
routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services
industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and
other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to
credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition,
GE Capital s credit risk may be increased when the collateral held cannot be
realized upon sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full
amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has
exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt
instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating
to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties
(as described in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report),
which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no
assurance, however, that any losses or impairments to the carrying value of
financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital s
business, financial position and results of operations. 

(17) 

The
real estate markets in which GE Capital participates are highly
uncertain. 

GE
Capital participates in the commercial real estate market in two ways: it
provides financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various
types of properties, and it also acquires equity positions in various types of
properties. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent
upon the economic conditions in specific geographic markets in which the
properties are located and the perceived value of those markets at the time of
sale. The level of transactions for real estate assets may vary significantly
from one year to the next. Continued high levels of unemployment, slowdown in
business activity, excess inventory capacity and limited availability of credit
are expected to continue to adversely affect the value of real estate assets and
collateral to real estate loans GE Capital holds. Under current market and
credit conditions, there can be no assurance as to the level of sales GE Capital
will complete or the net sales proceeds it will realize. Also, occupancy rates
and market rentals may worsen, which may result in impairments to the carrying
value of equity investments or increases in the allowance for loan losses on
commercial real estate loans. 

GE
Capital is also a residential mortgage lender in certain geographic markets
outside the United States that have been, and may continue to be, adversely
affected by declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses,
consumer bankruptcies and other factors that may negatively impact the credit
performance of our mortgage loans. Our allowance for loan losses on these
mortgage loans is based on our analysis of current and historical delinquency
and loan performance, as well as other management assumptions that may be
inaccurate predictions of credit performance in this environment. There can be
no assurance that, in this environment, credit performance will not be
materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and adversely
affect GE Capital s business, financial position and results of
operations. 

Failure
to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and
related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital
markets. 

The
major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based
on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency
with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. In March 2009,
Standard   Poor s (S P) downgraded GE and GE Capital s long-term rating
by one notch from  AAA  to  AA+  and, at the same time, revised the outlook from
negative to stable. In addition, Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) downgraded
GE and GE Capital s long-term rating by two notches from  Aaa  to  Aa2  with a
stable outlook. The short-term ratings of  A-1+/P-1  were affirmed by both
rating agencies at the same time with respect to GE, GE Capital Services and GE
Capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit
ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and
related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.
Various debt instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting
additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which,
depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material adverse effect
on our liquidity and capital position. 

(18) 

Current
conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve also may
materially and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our
non-financial businesses. 

The
business and operating results of our technology infrastructure, energy
infrastructure, consumer and industrial and media businesses have been, and will
continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions, including conditions
in the air and rail transportation, energy generation, healthcare, media and
other major industries we serve. As a result of slowing global economic growth,
the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased
unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity
prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global
economy, some of our customers have experienced deterioration of their
businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a
result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase
our products and services, including large infrastructure projects, and may not
be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. In particular,
the airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel
is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and international economies. A
prolonged economic downturn in the U.S. or internationally that continues to
result in the loss of business and leisure traffic could have a material adverse
effect on our airline customers and the viability of their business. Service
contract cancellations could affect our ability to fully recover our contract
costs and estimated earnings. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar
conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us.
If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or there is
significant further deterioration in the global economy, our results of
operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely
affected. 

We
are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product
innovations for continued revenue growth. 

The
markets in which we operate are subject to technological change. Our long-term
operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop,
introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products,
to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet
customer requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process,
including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of
technological change or that we will be unable to develop and market new
products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer
demands. 

Our
Intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently
developing products and services similar to or duplicative to ours, and we may
not be able to obtain necessary licenses. 

Our
patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from
independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative of
ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect
our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property
portfolio will adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our
technology. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic
enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities.
Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be
expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party rights,
we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from
offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances
that we will be able to obtain or re-new from third parties the licenses we need
in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on
reasonable terms. 

Significant
raw material shortages, supplier capacity constraints, supplier production
disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our
operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our
products. 

Our
reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers
and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems
used in our products exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of
these materials, parts, components, systems and services. A disruption in
deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service
providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price increases, or
decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse
effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our
operating costs. Quality issues experienced by third-party providers can also
adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and
result in liability and reputational harm. 

(19) 

There
are risks inherent in owning our common stock. 

The
market price and volume of our common stock have been, and may continue to be,
subject to significant fluctuations. These may arise from general stock market
conditions, the impact of the risk factors described above on our financial
condition and results of operations, a change in sentiment in the market
regarding us or our business prospects or from other factors. Changes in the
amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect
the value of our common stock. 

Item
1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

Not
applicable. 

Item
2.  Properties.  

Manufacturing
operations are carried out at approximately 235 manufacturing plants located in
40 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at approximately 240
manufacturing plants located in 41 other countries. 

Item
3.  Legal Proceedings.  

As
previously reported, in July and September 2008, shareholders filed two
purported class actions under the federal securities laws in the United States
District Court for the District of Connecticut naming us as defendant, as well
as our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. These two actions
have been consolidated, and in January 2009, a consolidated complaint was filed
alleging that we and our chief executive officer made false and misleading
statements that artificially inflated our stock price between March 12, 2008 and
April 10, 2008, when we announced that our results for the first quarter of 2008
would not meet our previous guidance and we also lowered our full year guidance
for 2008. The case seeks unspecified damages. Our motion to dismiss the
consolidated complaint was filed in March 2009 and is currently under
consideration by the court. We intend to defend ourselves
vigorously. 

As
previously reported, in October 2008, shareholders filed a purported class
action under the federal securities laws in the United States District Court for
the Southern District of New York naming us as defendant, as well as our chief
executive officer and chief financial officer. The complaint alleges that during
a conference call with analysts on September 25, 2008, defendants made false and
misleading statements concerning (i) the state of GE s funding, cash flows, and
liquidity and (ii) the question of issuing additional equity, which caused
economic loss to those shareholders who purchased GE stock between September 25,
2008 and October 2, 2008, when we announced the pricing of a common stock
offering. The case seeks unspecified damages. Our motion to dismiss the second
amended complaint was filed in January 2010 and is currently under consideration
by the court. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously. 

As
previously reported, in March and April 2009, shareholders filed purported class
actions under the federal securities laws in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York naming as defendants GE, a number of GE
officers (including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer) and
our directors. The complaints, which have now been consolidated, seek
unspecified damages based on allegations related to statements regarding the GE
dividend and projected losses and earnings for GE Capital in 2009. Our motion to
dismiss the consolidated complaint was filed in November 2009 and is currently
under consideration by the court. A shareholder derivative action has been filed
in federal court in Connecticut in May 2009 making essentially the same
allegations as the New York actions. We have moved to consolidate the
Connecticut derivative action with the recently consolidated New York actions.
We intend to defend ourselves vigorously. 

(20) 

As
previously reported, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ)
and the SEC are conducting an industry-wide investigation of marketing and sales
of guaranteed investment contracts, and other financial instruments, to
municipalities. In connection with this investigation, two subsidiaries of GE
Capital have received subpoenas and requests for information in connection with
the investigation: GE Funding CMS (Trinity Funding Co.) and GE Funding Capital
Market Services, Inc. (GE FCMS). GE Capital has cooperated and continues to
cooperate fully with the SEC and DOJ in this matter. In July 2008, GE FCMS
received a  Wells notice  advising that the SEC staff is considering
recommending that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action or institute an
administrative proceeding in connection with the bidding for various financial
instruments associated with municipal securities by certain former employees of
GE FCMS. GE FCMS is one of several industry participants that received Wells
notices during 2008. GE FCMS disagrees with the SEC staff regarding this
recommendation and has been in discussions with the staff, including discussion
of potential resolution of the matter. GE FCMS intends to continue these
discussions and understands that it will have the opportunity to address any
disagreements with the SEC staff with respect to its recommendation through the
Wells process with the full Commission. In March 2008, GE FCMS and Trinity
Funding Co., LLC (Trinity Funding) were served with a federal class action
complaint asserting antitrust violations. This action has been combined with
other related actions in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In addition, GE
FCMS and Trinity Funding also received subpoenas from the Attorneys General of
the State of Connecticut and Florida on behalf of a working group of State
Attorneys General in June 2008. GE FCMS and Trinity Funding are cooperating with
those investigations. 

As
previously reported, and in compliance with SEC requirements to disclose
environmental proceedings potentially involving monetary sanctions of $100,000
or greater, in June 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a
notice of violation alleging non-compliance with the Clean Air Act at a power
cogeneration plant in Homer City, PA. The plant is operated exclusively by EME
Homer City Generation L.P., and is owned and leased to EME Homer City Generation
L.P. by subsidiaries of GE Capital. The notice of violation does not indicate a
specific penalty amount but makes reference to statutory fines. We believe that
we have meritorious defenses and that EME Homer City Generation L.P. is
obligated to indemnify GE Capital s subsidiaries and pay all costs associated
with this matter. 

Item
4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders.  

Not
applicable. 

(21) 

Part
II 

Item
5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.  

With
respect to  Market Information,  in the United States, GE common stock is listed
on the New York Stock Exchange (its principal market). GE common stock is also
listed on the London Stock Exchange and on Euronext Paris. Trading prices, as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Composite Transactions Tape, and
dividend information follow: 

As of
January 31, 2010, there were approximately 598,000 shareowner accounts of
record. 

(22) 

During
the fourth quarter of 2009, we purchased shares of our common stock as
follows. 

(a) 

Information
      is presented on a fiscal calendar basis, consistent with our quarterly
      financial reporting. 

(b) 

This
      category includes 744 thousand shares repurchased from our various benefit
      plans, primarily the GE Savings and Security Program (the S SP).
      Through the S SP, a defined contribution plan with Internal Revenue
      Service Code 401(k) features, we repurchase shares resulting from changes
      in investment options by plan
participants. 

(c) 

This
      balance represents the number of shares that were repurchased from the GE
      Stock Direct Plan, a direct stock purchase plan that is available to the
      public. Repurchases from GE Stock Direct are part of the 2007 GE Share
      Repurchase Program (the Program) under which we are authorized to
      repurchase up to $15 billion of our common stock through 2010. The Program
      is flexible and shares are acquired with a combination of borrowings and
      free cash flow from the public markets and other sources, including GE
      Stock Direct. Effective September 25, 2008, we suspended the Program for
      purchases other than from GE Stock
Direct. 

For
information regarding compensation plans under which equity securities are
authorized for issuance, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

(23) 

Five-year
financial performance graph: 2005-2009 

Comparison
of five-year cumulative return among GE, S P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial
Average 

The
annual changes for the five-year period shown in the graph on this page are
based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in GE stock, the Standard
  Poor s 500 Stock Index (S P 500) and the Dow Jones Industrial Average
(DJIA) on December 31, 2004, and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested.
The total cumulative dollar returns shown on the graph represent the value that
such investments would have had on December 31, 2009. 

(24) 

Item
6.  Selected Financial Data.  

The
following table provides key information for Consolidated, GE and
GECS. 

Transactions
      between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated
      information. 

(b) 

Indicates
      terms are defined in the Glossary. 

(25) 

Item
7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.  

Operations 

Our
consolidated financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing, services
and media businesses of General Electric Company (GE) with the financial
services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or
financial services). 

In the
accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information
derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our
financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered  non-GAAP
financial measures  under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
rules. For such measures, we have provided supplemental explanations and
reconciliations in the Supplemental Information section. 

We
present Management s Discussion of Operations in five parts: Overview of Our
Earnings from 2007 through 2009, Global Risk Management, Segment Operations,
Geographic Operations and Environmental Matters. Unless otherwise indicated, we
refer to captions such as revenues and earnings from continuing operations
attributable to the company simply as  revenues  and  earnings  throughout this
Management s Discussion and Analysis. Similarly, discussion of other matters in
our consolidated financial statements relates to continuing operations unless
otherwise indicated. 

Effective
January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better align our Consumer  
Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization,
we created a new segment called Home   Business Solutions that includes the
Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous Consumer   Industrial
segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business
of our previous Enterprise Solutions business (formerly within our Technology
Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial business of our previous
Consumer   Industrial segment and the Sensing   Inspection Technologies
and Digital Energy businesses of our previous Enterprise Solutions business are
now part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The
Security business of Enterprise Solutions will be reported in Corporate Items
and Eliminations pending its expected sale. Also, effective January 1, 2010, the
Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the
continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the
Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in GE Capital
Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and Leasing
(CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, will
be included in CLL. 

Results
for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our
business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 reorganization described
above. 

Overview
of Our Earnings from 2007 through 2009 

Net
earnings attributable to the Company decreased 37% in 2009 and 22% in 2008,
reflecting the challenging economic conditions of the last two years and the
effect on both our industrial and financial services businesses. Our financial
services businesses were most significantly affected as GECS net earnings
attributable to the Company fell 80% in 2009 and 32% in 2008. Excluding the
financial services businesses, our net earnings attributable to the Company
decreased 7% in 2009 and 13% in 2008, reflecting the weakened global economy and
challenging market conditions. We believe that we are beginning to see signs of
stabilization in the global economy. We have a strong backlog entering 2010 and
are positioned for global growth in 2011 and 2012. 

Energy
Infrastructure (21% and 24% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) has grown significantly over the last several
years as the worldwide demand for energy, and for alternative sources of power,
such as wind and thermal, rose to new levels. Revenues decreased 4% in 2009
after increasing 26% in 2008, and segment profit increased 13% and 26% in 2009
and 2008, respectively. We continue to invest in market-leading technology and
services at Energy and Oil   Gas. 

(26) 

Technology
Infrastructure (26% and 31% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) revenues and earnings both fell 8% in 2009 after
rising 8% and 3%, respectively, in 2008. We continue to invest in market-leading
technologies and services at Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. Aviation
generated strong revenues and earnings as one of the world s leading providers
of aircraft engines and services. Healthcare revenues and earnings trended down
in 2009, reflecting the generally weak global economic conditions and continued
uncertainty in the healthcare markets. Transportation revenues and earnings fell
24% and 51%, respectively, in 2009 after rising 11% and 3%, respectively, in
2008 as the weakened economy has driven overall reductions in U.S. freight
traffic and we updated our estimate of long-term product service
costs. 

NBC
Universal (NBCU) (9% and 11% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company
that has grown over the past several years through business and geographic
diversity. NBCU revenues fell 9% and earnings decreased 28% in 2009 compared
with a 10% increase in revenues and flat earnings in 2008. While the television
and film businesses continue to be challenged by the effects of a difficult
economy, our cable business continues to grow and become more profitable. In
2010, we expect to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed
entity, which will consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation's
cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain
unconsolidated investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash
and will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have
classified NBCU assets and liabilities as held for sale in our Statement of
Financial Position. 

Capital
Finance (36% and 31% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment
profit, respectively) earnings declined to $2.3 billion and $8.6 billion in 2009
and 2008, respectively, in a challenging economic environment, including
disruptions in capital markets, challenging credit markets and rising
unemployment. Throughout 2008 and 2009, we tightened underwriting standards,
shifted teams from origination to collection and maintained a proactive risk
management focus. We also reduced our ending net investment (ENI), excluding the
effects of currency exchange rates, from $525 billion at December 31, 2008 to
$472 billion at December 31, 2009. The current credit cycle has begun to show
signs of stabilization and we expect further signs of stabilization as we enter
2010. Our focus is to continue to manage through the current challenging credit
environment and continue to reposition General Electric Capital Corporation (GE
Capital) as a diversely funded and smaller, more focused finance company with
strong positions in several mid-market, corporate and consumer financing
segments. 

Consumer
  Industrial (7% and 2% of consolidated three-year revenues and total
segment profit, respectively) is also sensitive to changes in economic
conditions. Reflective of the downturn in the U.S. housing market, Consumer
  Industrial revenues have declined 17% in 2009 and 7% in 2008. Over the
past two years, Consumer   Industrial has worked to reposition its business
by eliminating capacity in its incandescent lighting manufacturing sites and
investing in energy efficient product manufacturing in locations such as
Louisville, Kentucky and Bloomington, Indiana. Segment profit increased 10% in
2009 on higher prices and lower material costs and reflects these cost reduction
efforts after declining 65% in 2008, primarily on higher material and other
costs. 

Overall,
acquisitions contributed $3.4 billion, $7.4 billion and $7.7 billion to
consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, excluding the
effects of acquisition gains following our adoption of an amendment to Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810,
 Consolidation . Our
consolidated net earnings included approximately $0.5 billion, $0.8 billion and
$0.5 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from acquired businesses. We
integrate acquisitions as quickly as possible. Only revenues and earnings from
the date we complete the acquisition through the end of the fourth following
quarter are attributed to such businesses. Dispositions also affected our
ongoing results through lower revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009, higher revenues
of $0.1 billion in 2008 and lower revenues of $3.6 billion in 2007. The effects
of dispositions on net earnings were increases of $0.6 billion in 2009 and $0.4
billion in both 2008 and 2007. 

Significant
matters relating to our Statement of Earnings are explained below. 

(27) 

Discontinued Operations.  In
September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan
business (Lake) upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese
regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not
permit us to earn an acceptable return. During 2008, we completed the sale of GE
Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card
businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. In
December 2007, we completed the exit of WMC as a result of continued pressures
in the U.S. subprime mortgage industry. Both of these businesses were previously
reported in the Capital Finance segment. 

In
August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business. We sold this
business because of its cyclicality, rising costs of natural gas and raw
materials, and the decision to redeploy capital resources into higher-growth
businesses. 

We
reported the businesses described above as discontinued operations for all
periods presented. For further information about discontinued operations, see
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

We declared $6.8 billion in dividends
in 2009.  Common per-share dividends of $0.61 were down 51% from 2008,
following an 8% increase from the preceding year. In February 2009, we announced
the reduction of the quarterly GE stock dividend by 68% from $0.31 per share to
$0.10 per share, effective with the dividend approved by the Board in June 2009,
which was paid in the third quarter. This reduction had the effect of reducing
cash outflows of the company by approximately $4 billion in the second half of
2009 and will save approximately $9 billion annually thereafter. On February 12,
2010, our Board of Directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of $0.10 per
share of common stock, which is payable April 26, 2010, to shareowners of record
at close of business on March 1, 2010. In 2009, we declared $0.3 billion in
preferred stock dividends compared with $0.1 billion in 2008. 

Except
as otherwise noted, the analysis in the remainder of this section presents the
results of GE (with GECS included on a one-line basis) and GECS. See the Segment
Operations section for a more detailed discussion of the businesses within GE
and GECS. 

GE sales of product services 
were $35.4 billion in 2009, about flat compared with 2008. Increases in product
services at Energy Infrastructure were offset by decreases at Technology
Infrastructure and Consumer   Industrial. Operating profit from product
services was $10.0 billion in 2009, up 7% from 2008. 

Postretirement benefit plans 
costs were $2.6 billion, $2.2 billion and $2.6 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Costs increased in 2009 primarily because of the effects of lower
discount rates (principal pension plans discount rate decreased from 6.34% at
December 31, 2007 to 6.11% at December 31, 2008) and increases in early
retirements resulting from restructuring activities and contractual
requirements, partially offset by amortization of prior-years' investment gains
and benefits from new healthcare supplier contracts. Costs decreased in 2008
primarily because of the effects of prior years' investment gains, higher
discount rates and benefits from new healthcare supplier contracts, partially
offset by additional costs of plan benefits resulting from union negotiations
and a pensioner increase in 2007. 

Considering
the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected
returns on various categories of assets in which our plans are invested, we have
assumed that long-term returns on our principal pension plan assets will be 8.5%
for cost recognition in 2010, the same level as we assumed in 2009, 2008 and
2007. GAAP provides recognition of differences between assumed and actual
returns over a period no longer than the average future service of
employees. 

We
expect the costs of our postretirement benefits, excluding the effects of 2009
restructuring activities, to increase in 2010 by approximately $1.0 billion as
compared to 2009, primarily because of the effects of prior-year investment
losses and lower discount rates. 

(28) 

Our
principal pension plans were underfunded by $6.0 billion at the end of 2009 as
compared to $4.4 billion at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, the GE
Pension Plan was underfunded by $2.2 billion and the GE Supplementary Pension
Plan, which is an unfunded plan, had a projected benefit obligation of $3.8
billion. The increase in underfunding from year-end 2008 was primarily
attributable to lower discount rates (principal pension plans discount rate
decreased from 6.11% at December 31, 2008 to 5.78% at December 31, 2009, which
increased the pension benefit obligation at year-end 2009 by approximately $1.7
billion). Our principal pension plans  assets increased from $40.7 billion at
the end of 2008 to $42.1 billion at December 31, 2009, a 10.0% increase in
investment values during the year, partially offset by benefit payments. Assets
of the GE Pension Plan are held in trust, solely for the benefit of Plan
participants, and are not available for general company operations. 

On an
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) basis, the GE Pension Plan
remains fully funded at January 1, 2010. We will not make any contributions to
the GE Pension Plan in 2010. Assuming our 2010 actual experience is consistent
with our current benefit assumptions (e.g., expected return on assets and
interest rates), we will not be required to make contributions to the GE Pension
Plan in 2011. 

At
December 31, 2009, the fair value of assets for our other pension plans was $2.7
billion less than the respective projected benefit obligations. The comparable
amount at December 31, 2008, was $2.4 billion. We expect to contribute $0.6
billion to our other pension plans in 2010, compared with actual contributions
of $0.7 billion and $0.6 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We fund our
retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. The unfunded liability for our
principal retiree health and life plans was $11.6 billion and $10.8 billion at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This increase was primarily
attributable to lower discount rates (retiree health and life plans discount
rate decreased from 6.15% at December 31, 2008 to 5.67% at December 31, 2009),
which increased the unfunded liability by approximately $0.6 billion. We expect
to contribute $0.7 billion to these plans in 2010 compared with actual
contributions of $0.6 billion in 2009 and 2008. 

The
funded status of our postretirement benefits plans and future effects on
operating results depend on economic conditions and investment performance. See
Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report for additional
information about funded status, components of earnings effects and actuarial
assumptions. 

GE other costs and expenses 
are selling, general and administrative expenses. These costs were 14.3%, 12.9%
and 14.2% of total GE sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Interest on borrowings and other
financial charges  amounted to $18.8 billion, $26.2 billion and $23.8
billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Substantially all of our
borrowings are in financial services, where interest expense was $17.9 billion,
$25.1 billion and $22.7 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. GECS
average borrowings declined from 2008 to 2009 after increasing from 2007 to
2008, in line with changes in average GECS assets. Interest rates have decreased
over the three-year period attributable to declining global benchmark interest
rates, partially offset by higher average credit spreads. GECS average
borrowings were $499.2 billion, $521.2 billion and $456.4 billion in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. The GECS average composite effective interest rate was
3.6% in 2009, 4.8% in 2008 and 5.0% in 2007. In 2009, GECS average assets of
$649.6 billion were 3% lower than in 2008, which in turn were 13% higher than in
2007. We anticipate that GECS composite effective rates will begin to rise in
2010 as benchmark rates begin to rise globally. See the Liquidity and Borrowings
section for a discussion of liquidity, borrowings and interest rate risk
management. 

Income taxes  have a
significant effect on our net earnings. As a global commercial enterprise, our
tax rates are affected by many factors, including our global mix of earnings,
the extent to which those global earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside
the United States, legislation, acquisitions, dispositions and tax
characteristics of our income. Our tax returns are routinely audited and
settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax
provisions. 

(29) 

Income
taxes (benefit) on consolidated earnings from continuing operations were (10.5)%
in 2009 compared with 5.3% in 2008 and 15.1% in 2007. Our consolidated income
tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of benefits
from lower-taxed global operations, including the use of global funding
structures, and our 2009 and 2008 decisions to indefinitely reinvest prior-year
earnings outside the U.S. 

Our
consolidated income tax rate decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of a
reduction during 2009 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This increased
the relative effect of our tax benefits from lower-taxed global operations,
including the decision, discussed below, to indefinitely reinvest prior-year
earnings outside the U.S. These effects were partially offset by a decrease from
2008 to 2009 in the benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global
operations. 

Cash
taxes paid in 2009 were $2.5 billion, reflecting the effects of changes to
temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and
their tax bases, including the decision, discussed below, to indefinitely
reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S. 

Our
consolidated income tax rate decreased from 2007 to 2008 primarily because of a
reduction during 2008 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This increased
the relative effect of tax benefits from lower-taxed global operations on the
tax rate. In addition, earnings from lower-taxed global operations increased
from 2007 to 2008. The increase in the benefit from lower-taxed global
operations includes a benefit from the 2008 decision to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S., because the use of foreign tax credits no
longer required the repatriation of those prior-year earnings. 

A more
detailed analysis of differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate and the
consolidated rate, as well as other information about our income tax provisions,
is provided in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. The
nature of business activities and associated income taxes differ for GE and for
GECS and a separate analysis of each is presented in the paragraphs that
follow. 

Because
GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings, the GE effective tax
rate is best analyzed in relation to GE earnings excluding GECS. GE pre-tax
earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECS earnings from continuing
operations, were $12.6 billion, $14.2 billion and $13.5 billion for 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. On this basis, GE s effective tax rate was 21.8% in
2009, 24.2% in 2008 and 20.6% in 2007. 

Resolution
of audit matters reduced the GE effective tax rate throughout this period. The
effects of such resolutions are included in the following captions in Note 14 to
the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

The GE
effective tax rate decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of the 3.6
percentage point increase in the benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global
operations, excluding audit resolutions. 

The GE
effective tax rate increased from 2007 to 2008 because of the 4.3 percentage
point lower 2008 benefit from favorable audit resolutions, partially offset by a
1.2 percentage point increase in the benefit in lower-taxed earnings from global
operations, excluding audit resolutions. 

The 2007
GE rate reflects the favorable audit resolutions shown above and the benefit of
lower-taxed earnings from global operations. 

(30) 

The GECS
effective tax rate was 173.4% in 2009, compared with (42.2)% in 2008 and 9.7% in
2007. GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return that
enables GE to use GECS tax deductions and credits to reduce the tax that
otherwise would have been payable by GE. The GECS effective tax rate for each
period reflects the benefit of these tax reductions. GE makes cash payments to
GECS for these tax reductions at the time GE s tax payments are
due. 

Comparing
a tax benefit to pre-tax income resulted in a negative GECS tax rate in 2008 and
comparing a tax benefit to pre-tax loss results in the positive GECS tax rate in
2009. The GECS tax rate increased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of a
reduction during 2009 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This had the
effect of increasing the relative impact on the rate of tax benefits from
lower-taxed global operations, increasing the rate 253.2 percentage points. This
more than offset the decline in those benefits decreasing the rate 68.1
percentage points. The decline in tax benefits from lower-taxed global
operations includes an offset of 15.9 percentage points for increased benefits
from management s decision (discussed below) in 2009 to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S. that was larger than the 2008 decision to
indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S. 

During
2009, following the change in our external credit ratings, funding actions taken
and our continued review of our operations, liquidity and funding, we determined
that undistributed prior-year earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of GECS, on
which we had previously provided deferred U.S. taxes, would now be indefinitely
reinvested outside the U.S. This change increased the amount of prior-year
earnings indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $2 billion,
resulting in an income tax benefit of $0.7 billion in 2009. 

The GECS
rate decreased from 2007 to 2008 primarily because of a reduction during 2008 of
income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This increased the relative effect of tax
benefits from lower-taxed global operations on the tax rate, reducing the rate
30.8 percentage points. In addition, earnings from lower-taxed global operations
increased from 2007 to 2008, causing an additional 19.9 percentage point rate
reduction. The increase in the benefit from lower taxed global operations
includes 6.2 percentage points from the 2008 decision to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S. because the use of foreign tax credits no
longer required the repatriation of those prior-year earnings. 

Global
Risk Management 

A
disciplined approach to risk is important in a diversified organization such as
ours in order to ensure that we are   executing
according to our strategic objectives and that we only accept risk for which we
are adequately   compensated.
We evaluate risk at the individual transaction level, and evaluate aggregate
risk at the customer, industry, geographic and collateral-type levels, where
appropriate. 

The GE
Board of Directors (Board) has overall responsibility for risk oversight with a
focus on the most significant risks facing the company. At the end of each year,
management and the Board jointly develop a list of major risks that GE plans to
prioritize in the next year. Throughout the year, the Board and the committees
to which it has delegated responsibility dedicate a portion of their meetings to
review and discuss specific risk topics in greater detail. Strategic and
operational risks are presented and discussed in the context of the CEO s report
on operations to the Board at regularly scheduled Board meetings and at
presentations to the Board and its committees by the vice chairmen, general
counsel and other officers. The Board has delegated responsibility for the
oversight of specific risks to Board committees as follows: 

(31) 

The
      Audit Committee oversees GE s risk policies and processes relating to the
      financial statements and financial reporting processes, and key credit
      risks, liquidity risks, markets risks, compliance and the guidelines,
      policies and processes for monitoring and mitigating those risks. As part
      of its risk oversight responsibilities for GE overall, the Audit Committee
      also oversees risks related to GECS. At least two times a year, the Audit
      Committee receives a risk update, which focuses on the principal risks
      affecting GE as well as reporting on the company s risk assessment and
      risk management guidelines, policies and processes; and the Audit
      Committee annually conducts an assessment of compliance issues and
      programs. 

The
      Public Responsibilities Committee oversees risks related to GE s public
      policy initiatives, the environment and similar
  matters. 

The
      Management Development and Compensation Committee monitors the risks
      associated with management resources, structure, succession planning,
      development and selection processes, including evaluating the effect
      compensation structure may have on risk
  decisions. 

The
      Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees risks related to
      the company s governance structure and processes and risks arising from
      related person transactions. 

The GE
Board s risk oversight process builds upon management s risk assessment and
mitigation processes, which include standardized reviews of long-term strategic
and operational planning; executive development and evaluation; regulatory and
litigation compliance; health, safety and environmental compliance; financial
reporting and controllership; and information technology and security. In August
2009, GE appointed a chief risk officer (CRO) with responsibility for overseeing
and coordinating risk assessment and mitigation on an enterprise-wide basis. The
CRO leads the Corporate Risk Function and is responsible for the identification
of key business risks, ensuring appropriate management of these risks within
stated limits, and enforcement through policies and procedures. Management has
two committees to further assist it in assessing and mitigating risk. The Policy
Compliance Review Board (PCRB) meets between 12 and 14 times a year, is chaired
by the company s general counsel and includes the chief financial officer and
other senior level functional leaders. It has principal responsibility for
monitoring compliance matters across the company. The Corporate Risk Committee
(CRC) meets at least four times a year, is chaired by the CRO and comprises the
Chairman and CEO and other senior level business and functional leaders. It has
principal responsibility for evaluating and addressing risks escalated to the
CRO and Corporate Risk Function and also reports to the Board on
risk. 

GE's
Corporate Risk Function leverages the risk infrastructures in each of our
businesses, which have adopted an approach that corresponds to the company s
overall risk policies, guidelines and review mechanisms. Our risk infrastructure
is designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks within each of the
following categories: 

(32) 

Strategic.  Strategic
      risk relates to the company s future business plans and strategies,
      including the risks associated with the markets and industries in which we
      operate, demand for our products and services, competitive threats,
      technology and product innovation, mergers and acquisitions and public
      policy. 

Operational.  Operational
      risk relates to the effectiveness of our people, integrity of our internal
      systems and processes, as well as external events that affect the
      operation of our businesses. It includes product life cycle and execution,
      product performance, information management and data security, business
      disruption, human resources and
reputation. 

Financial.  Financial
      risk relates to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate
      credit risk, liquidity risk and exposure to broad market risks, including
      volatility in foreign currency exchange and interest rates and commodity
      prices. Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to accommodate
      liability maturities, fund asset growth and meet contractual obligations
      through access to funding at reasonable market rates and credit risk is
      the risk of financial loss arising from a customer or counterparty failure
      to meet its contractual obligations. We face credit risk in our industrial
      businesses, as well as in our GECS investing, lending and leasing
      activities and derivative financial instruments
  activities. 

Legal and Compliance. 
      Legal and compliance risk relates to changes in the government and
      regulatory environment, compliance requirements with policies and
      procedures, including those relating to financial reporting, environmental
      health and safety, and intellectual property risks. Government and
      regulatory risk is the risk that the government or regulatory actions will
      cause us to have to change our business models or
    practices. 

Risks
identified through our risk management processes are prioritized and, depending
on the probability and severity of the risk, escalated to the CRO. The CRO, in
coordination with the CRC, assigns responsibility of the risks to the business
or functional leader most suited to manage the risk. Assigned owners are
required to continually monitor, evaluate and report on risks for which they
bear responsibility. We have general response strategies for managing risks,
which categorize risks according to whether the company will avoid, transfer,
reduce or accept the risk. These response strategies are tailored to ensure that
risks are within acceptable GE Board tolerance levels. 

Depending
on the nature of the risk involved and the particular business or function
affected, we use a wide variety of risk mitigation strategies, including
hedging, standardized processes, approvals and operating reviews, insurance and
strategic planning reviews. As a matter of policy, we generally hedge the risk
of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity
prices. Our service businesses employ a comprehensive tollgate process leading
up to and through the execution of a contractual service agreement to mitigate
legal, financial and operational risks. Furthermore, we centrally manage certain
risks through insurance determined by the balance between the level of risk
retained or assumed and the cost of transferring risk to others. We counteract
the risk of fluctuations in economic activity and customer demand by monitoring
industry dynamics and responding accordingly, including by adjusting capacity,
implementing cost reductions and engaging in mergers and
acquisitions. 

GECS
Risk Management and Oversight 

GECS has
developed a robust risk infrastructure and processes to manage risks related to
its businesses and the GE Corporate Risk Function relies upon them in
fulfillment of its mission. As discussed above, the GE Audit Committee oversees
GECS  risk assessment and management processes. 

At the
GECS level, the GECS Board of Directors oversees the GECS risk management
process, and approves all significant acquisitions and dispositions as well as
significant borrowings and investments. All participants in the GECS risk
management process must comply with approval limits established by the GECS
Board. 

(33) 

GE
Capital has established an Enterprise Risk Management Committee (ERMC),
comprising the most senior leaders in GE Capital, which has oversight
responsibility for identifying, assessing, mitigating and monitoring risk across
the entire GE Capital enterprise, including credit, market, operational, legal
  compliance, liquidity and funding risk. GE Capital, in coordination with
and under the oversight of the GE CRO, provides comprehensive risk reports to
the GE Audit Committee. At these meetings, which will occur at least four times
a year, GE Capital senior management will focus on the risk strategy and
financial services portfolio, including the risk oversight processes used to
manage all the elements of risk managed by the ERMC. 

GE
Capital's risk management approach rests upon three major tenets: a broad spread
of risk based on managed exposure limits; senior, secured commercial financings;
and a hold to maturity model with transactions underwritten to  on-book 
standards. 

Dedicated
risk professionals across the businesses include underwriters, portfolio
managers, collectors, environmental and engineering specialists, and specialized
asset managers who evaluate leased asset residuals and remarket off-lease
equipment. The senior risk officers have, on average, over 25 years of
experience. 

Additional
information about our liquidity and how we manage this risk can be found in the
Financial Resources and Liquidity section of this Item and in Notes 10 and 22 to
the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. Additional
information about our credit risk and GECS portfolio can be found in the
Financial Resources and Liquidity and Critical Accounting Estimates sections of
this Item and Notes 1, 3, 6, 22 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements
in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form
10-K Report. 

Segment
Operations  

Our five
segments are focused on the broad markets they serve: Energy Infrastructure,
Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer  
Industrial. In addition to providing information on segments in their entirety,
we have also provided supplemental information for certain businesses within the
segments for greater clarity. 

Segment
profit is determined based on internal performance measures used by the Chief
Executive Officer to assess the performance of each business in a given period.
In connection with that assessment, the Chief Executive Officer may exclude
matters such as charges for restructuring; rationalization and other similar
expenses; in-process research and development and certain other
acquisition-related charges and balances; technology and product development
costs; certain gains and losses from acquisitions or dispositions; and
litigation settlements or other charges, responsibility for which preceded the
current management team. 

Segment
profit always excludes the effects of principal pension plans, results reported
as discontinued operations, earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests of
consolidated subsidiaries and accounting changes. Segment profit excludes or
includes interest and other financial charges and income taxes according to how
a particular segment s management is measured   excluded in determining segment
profit, which we sometimes refer to as  operating profit,  for Energy
Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Consumer  
Industrial; included in determining segment profit, which we sometimes refer to
as  net earnings,  for Capital Finance. 

We have
reclassified certain prior-period amounts to conform to the current period s
presentation. For additional information about our segments, see Item 1.
"Business" in Part I and Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

(34) 

See
      accompanying notes to consolidated financial
  statements. 

(a) 

Effective
      January 1, 2009, our Water business was combined with Energy. Prior-period
      amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period's
      presentation. 

Energy
Infrastructure segment revenues decreased 4%, or $1.4 billion, in 2009 as higher
prices ($1.3 billion) were more than offset by lower volume ($1.6 billion), the
stronger U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion) and lower other income ($0.5 billion),
primarily related to lower earnings from associated companies and marks on
foreign currency contracts. The increase in price was primarily at Energy. The
decrease in volume reflected decreased equipment sales at Energy, partially
offset by increased equipment sales at Oil   Gas. The effects of the
stronger U.S. dollar were at both Energy and Oil   Gas. 

(35) 

Segment
profit increased 13% to $6.8 billion, compared with $6.1 billion in 2008, as
higher prices ($1.3 billion) and lower material and other costs ($0.5 billion)
were partially offset by lower other income ($0.7 billion), primarily related to
lower earnings from associated companies and marks on foreign currency
contracts, and lower volume ($0.2 billion). Lower material and other costs were
primarily at Energy. Lower volume at Energy was partially offset by higher
volume at Oil   Gas. 

Energy
Infrastructure segment revenues rose 26%, or $7.9 billion, in 2008 on higher
volume ($6.0 billion), higher prices ($1.4 billion) and the effects of the
weaker U.S. dollar ($0.5 billion). The increase in volume reflected increased
sales of thermal and wind equipment at Energy, and the effects of acquisitions
and increased sales of services at Oil   Gas. The increase in price was
primarily at Energy, while the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar were primarily
at Energy and Oil   Gas. 

Segment
profit rose 26% to $6.1 billion in 2008, compared with $4.8 billion in 2007, as
higher prices ($1.4 billion), higher volume ($1.0 billion) and the effects of
the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion) more than offset the effects of higher
material and other costs ($0.7 billion) and lower productivity ($0.5 billion).
Volume and material and other costs increased across all businesses of the
segment. The effects of productivity were primarily at Energy. 

Energy
Infrastructure segment orders were $36.0 billion in 2009, down from $43.2
billion in 2008. The $28.5 billion total backlog at year-end 2009 comprised
unfilled product orders of $19.3 billion (of which 84% was scheduled for
delivery in 2010) and product services orders of $9.1 billion scheduled for 2010
delivery. Comparable December 31, 2008, total backlog was $32.5 billion, of
which $23.0 billion was for unfilled product orders and $9.5 billion, for
product services orders. See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion
of items not allocated to this segment. 

Technology
Infrastructure revenues decreased 8%, or $3.8 billion, in 2009 as lower volume
($4.1 billion), the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.4 billion) and an update at
Transportation of our estimate of product service costs in maintenance service
agreements ($0.3 billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.5 billion)
and higher other income ($0.5 billion), primarily including gains on the
ATI-Singapore acquisition, dissolution of the joint venture with FANUC Ltd. and
the Times Microwave Systems disposition. The decrease in volume was across all
businesses in the segment. The effects of the stronger U.S. dollar were at
Healthcare, Enterprise Solutions and Aviation. Higher prices, primarily at
Aviation, were partially offset by lower prices at Healthcare. 

Segment
profit decreased 8% to $7.5 billion in 2009, compared with $8.2 billion in 2008,
as the effects of lower volume ($1.0 billion) and lower productivity ($0.4
billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.5 billion) and higher other
income ($0.4 billion), primarily including gains on the ATI-Singapore
acquisition, dissolution of the joint venture with FANUC Ltd. and the Times
Microwave Systems disposition. The decrease in volume was across all businesses
in the segment. Lower productivity at Transportation and Enterprise Solutions
was partially offset by Aviation. 

(36) 

Technology
Infrastructure revenues rose 8%, or $3.5 billion, in 2008 on higher volume ($3.0
billion), the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and higher prices
($0.2 billion). The increase in volume reflected the effects of acquisitions and
increased sales of military and commercial engines and services at Aviation;
increased sales in the international diagnostic imaging, clinical systems and
life sciences businesses of Healthcare; increased equipment sales at
Transportation; and increases at Sensing and Inspection Technologies and Digital
Energy at Enterprise Solutions. The effects of the weaker U.S. dollar were
primarily at Healthcare and Enterprise Solutions. Higher prices were primarily
at Aviation and Transportation, partially offset by lower prices at
Healthcare. 

Segment
profit rose 3% to $8.2 billion in 2008, compared with $7.9 billion in 2007, as
the effects of productivity ($0.5 billion), higher volume ($0.4 billion) and
higher prices ($0.2 billion) more than offset the effects of higher material and
other costs ($0.9 billion). The effects of productivity were primarily at
Healthcare and Aviation. Volume increases were primarily at Aviation and
Transportation. The increase in material costs was primarily at Aviation and
Transportation, partially offset by a decrease at Healthcare. Labor and other
costs increased across all businesses of the segment. 

Technology
Infrastructure orders were $41.6 billion in 2009, down from $47.2 billion in
2008. The $38.6 billion total backlog at year-end 2009 comprised unfilled
product orders of $26.7 billion (of which 45% was scheduled for delivery in
2010) and product services orders of $11.9 billion scheduled for 2010 delivery.
Comparable December 31, 2008, total backlog was $37.6 billion, of which $28.4
billion was for unfilled product orders and $9.2 billion, for product services
orders. See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not
allocated to this segment. 

NBC Universal  revenues
decreased 9%, or $1.5 billion, in 2009 as lower revenues in our broadcast
television business ($1.1 billion), reflecting the lack of a current-year
counterpart to the 2008 Olympics broadcasts and the effects of lower advertising
revenues, lower revenues in film ($0.8 billion) and lower earnings and higher
impairments related to associated companies and investment securities ($0.4
billion) were partially offset by the gain relating to A E Television
Network (AETN) ($0.6 billion) and higher revenues in cable ($0.3 billion).
Segment profit of $2.3 billion decreased 28%, or $0.9 billion, as lower earnings
in film ($0.6 billion), lower earnings and higher impairments related to
associated companies and investment securities ($0.4 billion), lack of
current-year counterpart to 2008 proceeds from insurance claims ($0.4 billion)
and lower earnings in our broadcast television business ($0.2 billion) were
partially offset by the gain related to AETN ($0.6 billion) and higher earnings
in cable ($0.2 billion). 

NBC
Universal revenues increased $1.6 billion, or 10%, to $17.0 billion in 2008, as
revenues from the Olympics broadcasts ($1.0 billion) and higher revenues in
cable ($0.6 billion) and film ($0.4 billion) were partially offset by lower
earnings and higher impairments related to associated companies and investment
securities ($0.3 billion) and lower revenues from our television business ($0.1
billion). Segment profit of $3.1 billion in 2008 was flat compared with 2007, as
higher earnings from cable ($0.3 billion) and proceeds from insurance claims
($0.4 billion) were offset by lower earnings and impairments related to
associated companies and investment securities ($0.3 billion), losses from the
Olympics broadcasts ($0.2 billion), and lower earnings from our television
business ($0.1 billion) and film ($0.1 billion). See Corporate Items and
Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this
segment. 

As of
December 31, 2009, our NBC Universal business has been classified as held for
sale. For additional information, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of
this Form 10-K Report. 

(37) 

(a) 

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Banque Artesia Nederland N.V.
      (Artesia) from CLL to Consumer. Prior-period amounts were reclassified to
      conform to the current period's
presentation. 

Capital
Finance revenues decreased 24% and net earnings decreased 73% compared with
2008. Revenues in 2009 and 2008 included $3.0 billion and $0.4 billion of
revenue from acquisitions, respectively, and in 2009 were reduced by $4.8
billion as a result of dispositions, including the effect of the deconsolidation
of Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL). Revenues in 2009 also decreased $14.1
billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue declines, primarily
driven by a lower asset base and a lower interest rate environment, and the
stronger U.S. dollar. Net earnings decreased by $6.3 billion in 2009 compared
with 2008, primarily due to higher provisions for losses on financing
receivables associated with the challenging economic environment, partially
offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs and the decision to
indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S. 

During
2009, GE Capital provided $72 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various
companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended
$74 billion of credit to approximately 54 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital
provided credit to approximately 14,200 new commercial customers and 40,000 new
small businesses during 2009 in the U.S. and ended the period with outstanding
credit to more than 346,000 commercial customers and 174,000 small businesses
through retail programs in the U.S. 

(38) 

Capital
Finance 2008 revenues increased by 1%, and net earnings decreased 29%, compared
with 2007. Revenues in 2008 and 2007 included $4.4 billion and $0.5 billion from
acquisitions, respectively, and in 2008 were benefited by $0.1 billion as a
result of dispositions. Revenues in 2008 also decreased $3.3 billion as a result
of organic revenue declines ($4.5 billion), partially offset by the weaker U.S.
dollar ($1.2 billion). Net earnings decreased by $3.6 billion in 2008, resulting
from core declines ($3.5 billion), including an increase of $1.9 billion in the
provision for losses on financing receivables, lower investment income ($0.6
billion) and lower securitization income ($0.4 billion), offset by acquisitions
($0.5 billion), the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and dispositions ($0.1
billion). Net earnings included mark-to-market losses and impairments ($1.4
billion), partially offset by increased tax benefits from lower-taxed earnings
from global operations ($0.7 billion) and Genpact mark-to-market gains ($0.2
billion). See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not
allocated to this segment. 

Additional
information about certain Capital Finance businesses follows. 

CLL 2009
revenues decreased 22% and net earnings decreased 45% compared with 2008.
Revenues in 2009 and 2008 included $1.9 billion and $0.3 billion from
acquisitions, respectively, and were reduced by $3.2 billion from dispositions,
primarily related to the deconsolidation of PTL. Revenues in 2009 also included
$0.3 billion related to a gain on the sale of a partial interest in a limited
partnership in PTL and remeasurement of our retained investment. Revenues in
2009 decreased $4.6 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue
declines ($3.9 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion). Net
earnings decreased by $0.8 billion in 2009, reflecting higher provisions for
losses on financing receivables ($0.5 billion), lower gains ($0.5 billion) and
declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.4 billion),
partially offset by acquisitions ($0.4 billion) and higher investment income
($0.3 billion). Net earnings also included the gain on PTL sale and
remeasurement ($0.3 billion) and higher Genpact gains ($0.1 billion), partially
offset by mark-to-market losses and other-than-temporary impairments ($0.1
billion). 

CLL 2008
revenues decreased 2% and net earnings decreased 53% compared with 2007.
Revenues in 2008 and 2007 included $1.8 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively,
from acquisitions, and in 2008 were reduced by $0.3 billion as a result of
dispositions. Revenues in 2008 decreased $1.9 billion compared with 2007 as a
result of organic revenue declines ($2.3 billion), partially offset by the
weaker U.S. dollar ($0.4 billion). Net earnings decreased by $2.0 billion in
2008, resulting from core declines ($2.2 billion), including an increase of $0.5
billion in the provision for losses on financing receivables and lower
investment income ($0.3 billion), partially offset by acquisitions ($0.4
billion) and the effect of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion). Net earnings
included mark-to-market losses and impairments ($0.8 billion), the absence of
the effects of the 2007 tax benefit on the disposition of our investment in SES
($0.5 billion) and SES gains ($0.1 billion), partially offset by Genpact
mark-to-market gains ($0.2 billion). 

Consumer
2009 revenues decreased 24% and net earnings decreased 55% compared with 2008.
Revenues in 2009 included $1.0 billion from acquisitions (including a gain of
$0.3 billion on the remeasurement of our previously held equity investment in
BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) related to the acquisition of a controlling
interest (BAC acquisition gain)) and were reduced by $1.7 billion as a result of
dispositions, and the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2008 gain on
sale of our Corporate Payment Services (CPS) business ($0.4 billion). Revenues
in 2009 decreased $5.0 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue
declines ($3.4 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($1.6 billion). The
decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from core declines ($2.4 billion)
and the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2008 gain on sale of our CPS
business ($0.2 billion). These decreases were partially offset by higher
securitization income ($0.3 billion), the BAC acquisition gain ($0.2 billion)
and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion). Core declines primarily resulted
from lower results in the U.S., U.K., and our banks in Eastern Europe,
reflecting higher provisions for losses on financing receivables ($1.3 billion)
and declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.7 billion). The
benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global operations included $0.5 billion
from the decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the
U.S. 

(39) 

Consumer
2008 revenues increased 1% and net earnings decreased 14% compared with 2007.
Revenues for 2008 included $0.7 billion from acquisitions and $0.4 billion from
the gain on sale of our CPS business and were reduced by $0.2 billion from
dispositions. Revenues in 2008 also decreased $0.6 billion compared with 2007 as
a result of organic revenue declines ($1.2 billion), partially offset by the
weaker U.S. dollar ($0.6 billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted
primarily from core declines ($0.5 billion) and lower securitization income
($0.5 billion). The decreases were partially offset by the gain on the sale of
our CPS business ($0.2 billion), the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion) and
acquisitions ($0.1 billion). Core declines primarily resulted from lower results
in the U.S., reflecting the effects of higher delinquencies ($1.2 billion),
partially offset by growth in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($1.0
billion), including the decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings
outside the U.S. 

Real
Estate 2009 revenues decreased 40% and net earnings decreased $2.7 billion
compared with 2008. Revenues in 2009 decreased $2.6 billion compared with 2008
as a result of organic revenue declines ($2.4 billion), primarily as a result of
a decrease in sales of properties, and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.2 billion).
Real Estate net earnings decreased $2.7 billion compared with 2008, primarily
from an increase in provisions for losses on financing receivables and
impairments ($1.2 billion) and a decrease in gains on sales of properties as
compared to the prior period ($1.1 billion). Depreciation expense on real estate
equity investments totaled $1.2 billion in both 2009 and 2008. In the normal
course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity
investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. 

Real
Estate assets at December 31, 2009, decreased $3.8 billion, or 4%, from December
31, 2008, including $2.7 billion, or 6%, attributable to a decline in real
estate lending reflecting lower originations, principal repayments, and
increased loan reserves, and $0.7 billion, or 2%, attributable to a decline in
real estate investments principally due to depreciation expense and impairments,
partially offset by foreclosures. During 2009, we sold real estate equity
investment assets with a book value totaling $1.5 billion, which resulted in net
earnings of $0.1 billion that were more than offset by losses, impairments and
depreciation. 

Real
Estate 2008 revenues decreased 5% and net earnings decreased 50% compared with
2007. Revenues for 2008 included $0.3 billion from acquisitions. Revenues in
2008 also decreased $0.7 billion compared with 2007 as a result of organic
revenue declines ($0.8 billion), partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar
($0.2 billion). Real Estate net earnings decreased $1.1 billion compared with
2007, primarily from a decline in net earnings from real estate equity
investments ($1.2 billion), partially offset by an increase in net earnings from
real estate lending. Net earnings from the sale of real estate equity
investments in 2008 were lower as a result of increasingly difficult market
conditions. 

Real
Estate assets at December 31, 2008, increased $6.0 billion, or 8%, from December
31, 2007, including $12.1 billion, or 34%, attributable to an increase in real
estate lending, partially offset by a $6.4 billion, or 16%, decline in real
estate equity investments. During 2008, we sold real estate equity investment
assets with a book value totaling $5.8 billion, which resulted in net earnings
of $1.3 billion that were partially offset by losses, impairments and
depreciation. 

Energy
Financial Services 2009 revenues decreased 43% and net earnings decreased 74%
compared with 2008. Revenues in 2009 included $0.1 billion of gains from
dispositions. Revenues in 2009 also decreased $1.7 billion compared with 2008 as
a result of organic declines ($1.7 billion), primarily as a result of the
effects of lower energy commodity prices and a decrease in gains on sales of
assets. The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from core declines,
including a decrease in gains on sales of assets as compared to the prior period
and the effects of lower energy commodity prices. 

Energy
Financial Services 2008 revenues and net earnings increased 54% and 22%,
respectively, compared with 2007. Revenues in 2008 and 2007 included $1.6
billion and $0.3 billion, respectively, from acquisitions. The increase in net
earnings resulted primarily from core growth ($0.2 billion), partially offset by
lower investment income ($0.1 billion). 

GECAS
2009 revenues decreased 4% and net earnings decreased 14% compared with 2008.
The decrease in revenues resulted primarily from lower asset sales ($0.2
billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from lower asset sales
($0.2 billion) and core declines reflecting higher credit losses and
impairments. 

(40) 

GECAS
2008 revenues increased 1% and net earnings decreased 1% compared with 2007. The
increase in revenues is primarily a result of organic revenue growth ($0.1
billion), partially offset by lower investment income. The decrease in net
earnings resulted primarily from lower investment income, partially offset by
core growth. 

Consumer   Industrial 
revenues of $9.7 billion decreased 17%, or $2.0 billion, in 2009 compared with
2008, as lower volume ($2.2 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion)
were partially offset by higher prices ($0.2 billion). The decrease in volume
primarily reflected tightened consumer spending in the European and U.S.
markets. Segment profit increased 10% in 2009 as higher prices ($0.2 billion)
and lower material and other costs ($0.2 billion) were partially offset by lower
productivity ($0.3 billion) and lower other income ($0.1 billion). 

Consumer
  Industrial revenues decreased 7%, or $0.9 billion, to $11.7 billion in
2008 compared with 2007 as lower volume ($1.2 billion) was partially offset by
higher prices ($0.2 billion) and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1
billion). The decrease in volume reflected tightened spending in the U.S.
market. Segment profit decreased 65%, or $0.7 billion, to $0.4 billion as higher
material and other costs ($0.4 billion), lower volume ($0.2 billion), lower
productivity ($0.1 billion) and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar on
manufacturing costs ($0.1 billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.2
billion). See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not
allocated to this segment. 

Corporate
Items and Eliminations include the effects of eliminating transactions between
operating segments; results of our insurance activities remaining in continuing
operations; certain items in our treasury operations; cost of, and cost
reductions from, our principal pension plans; underabsorbed corporate overhead;
certain non-allocated amounts described below; and a variety of sundry items.
Corporate Items and Eliminations is not an operating segment. Rather, it is
added to operating segment totals to reconcile to consolidated totals on the
financial statements. 

Certain
amounts included in Corporate Items and Eliminations cost are not allocated to
GE operating segments because they are excluded from the measurement of their
operating performance for internal purposes. In 2009, these included $0.4
billion at each of Capital Finance and Technology Infrastructure, $0.2 billion
at Energy Infrastructure and $0.1 billion at Consumer   Industrial,
primarily for restructuring, rationalization and other charges and $0.3 billion
at NBC Universal, primarily for restructuring, rationalization and other charges
and technology and product development costs. In 2008, amounts primarily related
to restructuring, rationalization and other charges were $0.5 billion at each of
Capital Finance and NBC Universal, $0.4 billion at Technology Infrastructure and
$0.3 billion at each of Energy Infrastructure and Consumer   Industrial.
Included in these amounts in 2008 were technology and product development costs
of $0.2 billion at NBC Universal and $0.1 billion at Technology Infrastructure
and net losses on business exits of $0.2 billion at Capital Finance. GECS
amounts are on an after-tax basis. 

(41) 

Corporate
Items and Eliminations include the elimination of transactions between our
segments. In 2007, revenues, eliminations and other included a $0.9 billion gain
on sale of a business interest to Hitachi by the Energy business and a $0.6
billion gain on sale of Swiss Re common stock. 

In 2009,
other operating profit (cost) increased $1.0 billion, primarily due to a $1.1
billion increase in restructuring and other charges, which included a $0.6
billion increase in costs related to environmental remediation
matters. 

In 2007,
other operating profit (cost) reflected a $0.9 billion gain on sale of a
business interest to Hitachi by the Energy business and a $0.3 billion
(after-tax basis) gain on sale of Swiss Re common stock. 

Discontinued
operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan, WMC and Plastics. Results of
these businesses are reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented. 

During
the third quarter of 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Lake business and
recorded an after-tax loss of $0.9 billion, which represents the difference
between the net book value of our Lake business and the projected sale price.
During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along
with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership
interest in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. In connection with this sale, and
primarily related to our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, we recorded an
incremental $0.4 billion loss in 2008. 

In
December 2007, we completed the sale of our WMC business for $0.1 billion in
cash, recognizing an after-tax loss of $0.1 billion. In connection with the
transaction, certain contractual obligations and potential liabilities related
to previously sold loans were retained. 

In
August 2007, we completed the sale of our Plastics business to Saudi Basic
Industries Corporation for $11.6 billion in cash. As a result, we recognized an
after-tax gain of $1.6 billion. 

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2009, primarily reflected the
incremental loss on disposal of GE Money Japan ($0.1 billion). 

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2008 was $0.7 billion, primarily
reflecting a loss from operations ($0.3 billion), and the estimated incremental
loss on disposal of GE Money Japan ($0.4 billion). 

Loss
from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2007 was $0.2 billion, reflecting
a loss from operations at WMC ($0.9 billion), an estimated after-tax loss on the
planned sale of Lake ($0.9 billion), a loss from operations at GE Money Japan
($0.3 billion), and an after-tax loss on the sale of our WMC business ($0.1
billion), partially offset by a tax adjustment related to the 2004 initial
public offering of Genworth ($0.1 billion). This was partially offset by an
after-tax gain on sale of our Plastics business ($1.6 billion) and earnings from
Plastics operations ($0.3 billion). 

For
additional information related to discontinued operations, see Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

(42) 

Geographic
Operations 

Our
global activities span all geographic regions and primarily encompass
manufacturing for local and export markets, import and sale of products produced
in other regions, leasing of aircraft, sourcing for our plants domiciled in
other global regions and provision of financial services within these regional
economies. Thus, when countries or regions experience currency and/or economic
stress, we often have increased exposure to certain risks, but also often have
new profit opportunities. Potential increased risks include, among other things,
higher receivable delinquencies and bad debts, delays or cancellations of sales
and orders principally related to power and aircraft equipment, higher local
currency financing costs and slowdown in established financial services
activities. New profit opportunities include, among other things, more
opportunities for lower cost outsourcing, expansion of industrial and financial
services activities through purchases of companies or assets at reduced prices
and lower U.S. debt financing costs. 

Revenues
are classified according to the region to which products and services are sold.
For purposes of this analysis, U.S. is presented separately from the remainder
of the Americas. We classify certain operations that cannot meaningfully be
associated with specific geographic areas as  Other Global  for this
purpose. 

Global
revenues decreased 13% to $84.3 billion in 2009, compared with $97.2 billion and
$86.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Global revenues to external
customers as a percentage of consolidated revenues were 54% in 2009, compared
with 53% and 50% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effects of currency
fluctuations on reported results were to decrease revenues by $3.9 billion in
2009 and increase revenues by $2.0 billion and $4.0 billion in 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

GE
global revenues in 2009 were $56.4 billion, down 5% over 2008. Increases in
emerging markets of 25% in Eastern Europe, 16% in China and 3% in Africa were
more than offset by decreases of 17% in the Americas and 7% in Western Europe.
GE global revenues as a percentage of total GE revenues were 55% in 2009,
compared with 53% and 50% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. GE global revenues
were $59.4 billion in 2008, up 19% over 2007, with broad-based global
growth. 

GECS
global revenues decreased 26% to $27.9 billion in 2009, compared with $37.8
billion and $36.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily as a result
of dispositions in Europe and the Pacific Basin. GECS global revenues as a
percentage of total GECS revenues were 52% in 2009, compared with 53% and 51% in
2008 and 2007, respectively. The effects of currency fluctuations on reported
results were to decrease revenues by $2.5 billion in 2009 and increase revenues
by $1.2 billion and $2.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(43) 

Total
assets of global operations on a continuing basis were $391.1 billion in 2009, a
decrease of $9.3 billion, or 2%, from 2008. GECS global assets on a continuing
basis of $319.1 billion at the end of 2009 were 3% lower than at the end of
2008, reflecting core declines in the Pacific Basin and Europe, partially offset
by acquisitions, and the effects of the weaker U.S. dollar, primarily at
Consumer and CLL. 

Financial
results of our global activities reported in U.S. dollars are affected by
currency exchange. We use a number of techniques to manage the effects of
currency exchange, including selective borrowings in local currencies and
selective hedging of significant cross-currency transactions. Such principal
currencies are the pound sterling, the euro, the Japanese yen and the Canadian
dollar. 

Environmental
Matters 

Our
operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under
environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of
remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation
actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a
disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to
approximately $0.3 billion in both 2009 and 2008. We presently expect that such
remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4
billion over the next two years. 

In
November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent
decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for
implementation of EPA's 2002 Record of Decision to dredge polychlorinated
biphenyl (PCB)-containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. Under the consent
degree, the dredging is to be performed in two phases and Phase I was completed
in May through November of 2009. Between Phase I and Phase II there will be an
intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel
will evaluate the performance of Phase I dredging operations with respect to
Phase I Engineering Performance Standards, evaluate experience gained from Phase
I and may set forth proposed changes to the standards. This evaluation is
expected to conclude in the summer of 2010 after which EPA, considering the peer
review panel's recommendations, GE's proposed changes, and its own analysis,
will issue its regulatory decision setting forth any changes to the scope of, or
performance standards for, Phase II. Following EPA's decision, GE has 90 days to
either elect to perform Phase II or to opt out of the project, at which point GE
may be responsible for further costs. Our statement of financial position as of
December 31, 2009, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of
the project under the consent decree. 

Financial
Resources and Liquidity 

This
discussion of financial resources and liquidity addresses the Statement of
Financial Position, Liquidity and Borrowings, Debt Instruments, Guarantees and
Covenants, the Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity, the Statement of
Cash Flows, Contractual Obligations, and Variable Interest Entities and
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. 

Overview
of Financial Position 

Major
changes to our shareowners  equity are discussed in the Consolidated Statement
of Changes in Shareowners  Equity section. In addition, other significant
changes to balances in our Statement of Financial Position follow. 

(44) 

Statement
of Financial Position 

Because
GE and GECS share certain significant elements of their Statements of Financial
Position   property, plant and equipment and borrowings, for example   the
following discussion addresses significant captions in the  consolidated 
statement. Within the following discussions, however, we distinguish between GE
and GECS activities in order to permit meaningful analysis of each individual
consolidating statement. 

Investment securities  comprise
mainly investment-grade debt securities supporting obligations to annuitants and
policyholders in our run-off insurance operations and holders of guaranteed
investment contracts (GICs), and retained interests in securitization entities.
The fair value of investment securities increased to $51.9 billion at December
31, 2009, from $41.4 billion at December 31, 2008, primarily driven by decreases
in unrealized losses due to market improvements, investment of cash into
short-term investments such as money market funds and certificates of deposits,
and an increase in our retained interests in securitization entities. Of the
amount at December 31, 2009, we held debt securities with an estimated fair
value of $41.7 billion, which included corporate debt securities, residential
mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and commercial mortgage-backed securities
(CMBS) with estimated fair values of $25.5 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.7
billion, respectively. Unrealized losses on debt securities were $2.6 billion
and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. This amount
included unrealized losses on corporate debt securities, RMBS and CMBS of $0.8
billion, $0.8 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2009, as
compared with $2.6 billion, $1.1 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively, at
December 31, 2008. 

Of the
$3.3 billion of RMBS, our exposure to subprime credit was approximately $0.9
billion. These securities are primarily held to support obligations to holders
of GICs. We purchased no such securities in 2009 and 2008. These investment
securities are collateralized primarily by pools of individual direct mortgage
loans, and do not include structured products such as collateralized debt
obligations. Additionally, a majority of exposure to residential subprime credit
related to investment securities backed by mortgage loans originated in 2006 and
2005. 

The vast
majority of our CMBS have investment-grade credit ratings from the major rating
agencies and are in a senior position in the capital structure of the deal. Our
CMBS investments are collateralized by both diversified pools of mortgages that
were originated for securitization (conduit CMBS) and pools of large loans
backed by high quality properties (large loan CMBS), a majority of which were
originated in 2006 and 2007. 

We
regularly review investment securities for impairment. Our review uses both
qualitative and quantitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the FASB amended
ASC 320,  Investments   Debt
and Equity Securities , and modified the requirements for recognizing and
measuring other-than-temporary impairment for debt securities. This did not have
a material impact on our results of operations. We presently do not intend to
sell our debt securities and believe that it is not more likely than not that we
will be required to sell these securities that are in an unrealized loss
position before recovery of our amortized cost. If we do not intend to sell the
security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the
security before recovery of our amortized cost, we evaluate other qualitative
criteria to determine whether a credit loss exists, such as the financial health
of and specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer is in
compliance with the terms and covenants of the security. Quantitative criteria
include determining whether there has been an adverse change in expected future
cash flows. With respect to corporate bonds, we placed greater emphasis on the
credit quality of the issuer. With respect to RMBS and CMBS, we placed greater
emphasis on our expectations with respect to cash flows from the underlying
collateral and with respect to RMBS, we considered other features of the
security, principally monoline insurance. For equity securities, our criteria
include the length of time and magnitude of the amount that each security is in
an unrealized loss position. Our other-than-temporary impairment reviews involve
our finance, risk and asset management functions as well as the portfolio
management and research capabilities of our internal and third-party asset
managers. 

(45) 

Monoline
insurers (Monolines) provide credit enhancement for certain of our investment
securities. The credit enhancement is a feature of each specific security that
guarantees the payment of all contractual cash flows, and is not purchased
separately by GE. At December 31, 2009, our investment securities insured by
Monolines totaled $2.7 billion, including $0.8 billion of our $0.9 billion
investment in subprime RMBS. The Monoline industry continues to experience
financial stress from increasing delinquencies and defaults on the individual
loans underlying insured securities. In evaluating whether a security with
Monoline credit enhancement is other-than-temporarily impaired, we first
evaluate whether there has been an adverse change in estimated cash flows. If
there has been an adverse change in estimated cash flows, we then evaluate the
overall credit worthiness of the Monoline using an analysis that is similar to
the approach we use for corporate bonds. This includes an evaluation of the
following factors: sufficiency of the Monoline s cash reserves and capital,
ratings activity, whether the Monoline is in default or default appears
imminent, and the potential for intervention by an insurance or other regulator.
At December 31, 2009, the unrealized loss associated with securities subject to
Monoline credit enhancement for which there is an expected loss was $0.3
billion, of which $0.2 billion relates to expected credit losses and the
remaining $0.1 billion relates to other market factors. 

Total
pre-tax other-than-temporary impairment losses during the period April 1, 2009,
through December 31, 2009, were $0.8 billion, of which $0.5 billion was
recognized in earnings and primarily relates to credit losses on corporate debt
securities, RMBS and retained interests in our securitization arrangements, and
$0.3 billion primarily relates to non-credit related losses on RMBS and is
included within accumulated other comprehensive income. 

Our
qualitative review attempts to identify issuers  securities that are  at-risk 
of other-than-temporary impairment, that is, for securities that we do not
intend to sell and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to
sell before recovery of our amortized cost, whether there is a possibility of
credit loss that would result in an other-than-temporary impairment recognition
in the following 12 months. Securities we have identified as  at-risk  primarily
relate to investments in RMBS securities and corporate debt securities across a
broad range of industries. The amount of associated unrealized loss on these
securities at December 31, 2009, is $0.6 billion. Credit losses that would be
recognized in earnings are calculated when we determine the security to be
other-than-temporarily impaired. Continued uncertainty in the capital markets
may cause increased levels of other-than-temporary impairments. 

At
December 31, 2009, unrealized losses on investment securities totaled $2.6
billion, including $2.4 billion aged 12 months or longer, compared with
unrealized losses of $5.7 billion, including $3.5 billion aged 12 months or
longer, at December 31, 2008. Of the amount aged 12 months or longer at December
31, 2009, more than 70% of our debt securities were considered to be investment
grade by the major rating agencies. In addition, of the amount aged 12 months or
longer, $1.5 billion and $0.7 billion related to structured securities
(mortgage-backed, asset-backed and securitization retained interests) and
corporate debt securities, respectively. With respect to our investment
securities that are in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2009, the
vast majority relate to debt securities held to support obligations to holders
of GICs and annuitants and policyholders in our run-off insurance operations. We
presently do not intend to sell our debt securities and believe that it is not
more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities that are
in an unrealized loss position before recovery of our amortized cost. The fair
values used to determine these unrealized gains and losses are those defined by
relevant accounting standards and are not a forecast of future gains or losses.
For additional information, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements
in Part II, Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form
10-K Report. 

Fair Value Measurements . We
adopted ASC 820,  Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures , in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we
adopted it for all financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted
for at fair value on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all
non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
Adoption of this did not have a material effect on our financial position or
results of operations. Additional information about our application of this
guidance is provided in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

(46) 

Investments   measured at fair value
in earnings include retained interests in securitizations accounted for at fair
value and equity investments of $3.1 billion at year-end 2009. The earnings
effects of changes in fair value on these assets, favorable and unfavorable,
will be reflected in the period in which those changes occur. As discussed in
Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, we also have assets
that are classified as held for sale in the ordinary course of business,
primarily credit card receivables, loans and real estate properties, carried at
$3.7 billion at year-end 2009, which represents the lower of carrying amount or
estimated fair value less costs to sell. To the extent that the estimated fair
value less costs to sell is lower than carrying value, any favorable or
unfavorable changes in fair value will be reflected in earnings in the period in
which such changes occur. 

Working capital , representing
GE current receivables and inventories, less GE accounts payable and progress
collections, was $(1.6) billion at December 31, 2009, down $5.5 billion from
December 31, 2008, primarily reflecting the effects of operating initiatives and
the classification of NBCU and our Security business as held for sale. As Energy
delivers units out of its backlog over the next few years, progress collections
of $13.0 billion at December 31, 2009, will be earned, which, along with
progress collections on new orders, will impact working capital. Throughout the
last three years, we have executed a significant number of initiatives through
our Operating Council, such as lean cycle time projects, which have resulted in
working capital decreases. We expect to continue these initiatives in 2010,
which should have the effect of significantly offsetting the effects of
decreases in progress collections. 

We
discuss current receivables and inventories, two important elements of working
capital, in the following paragraphs. 

Current receivables  for GE
totaled to $9.8 billion at the end of 2009 and $15.1 billion at the end of 2008,
and included $7.5 billion due from customers at the end of 2009 compared with
$11.3 billion at the end of 2008. GE current receivables turnover, including
NBCU, was 8.0 in 2009, compared with 7.5 in 2008. The overall reduction in
current receivables was due to the Operating Council initiatives and lower
volume across our industrial businesses and the classification of NBCU and our
Security business as held for sale. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of
this Form 10-K Report. 

Inventories  for GE totaled to
$11.9 billion at December 31, 2009, down $1.7 billion from the end of 2008. This
decrease reflected lower inventories at Technology Infrastructure and the
classification of our Security business and NBCU as held for sale, partially
offset by higher inventories at Energy Infrastructure supporting the significant
backlog. GE inventory turnover, including NBCU, was 7.9 and 8.0 in 2009 and
2008, respectively. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Financing receivables  is our
largest category of assets and represents one of our primary sources of
revenues. A discussion of the quality of certain elements of the financing
receivables portfolio follows. 

Our
portfolio of financing receivables is diverse and not directly comparable to
major U.S. banks. Historically, we have had less consumer exposure, which over
time has had higher loss rates than commercial exposure. 

Our
consumer portfolio is largely non-U.S. and primarily comprises mortgage, sales
finance, auto and personal loans in various European and Asian countries. Our
U.S. consumer financing receivables comprise 7% of our total portfolio. Of
those, approximately 36% relate primarily to credit cards, which are often
subject to profit and loss sharing arrangements with the retailer (the results
of which are reflected in GECS revenues), and have a smaller average balance and
lower loss severity as compared to bank cards. The remaining 64% are sales
finance receivables, which provide electronics, recreation, medical and home
improvement financing to customers. In 2007, we exited the U.S. mortgage
business and we have no U.S. auto or student loans. 

(47) 

Our
commercial portfolio primarily comprises senior, secured positions with
comparatively low loss history. The secured receivables in this portfolio are
collateralized by a variety of asset classes, including industrial-related
facilities and equipment; commercial and residential real estate; vehicles,
aircraft, and equipment used in many industries, including the construction,
manufacturing, transportation, telecommunications and healthcare industries. We
are in a secured position for substantially all of this portfolio. 

Overall,
we believe that the global economic markets are beginning to stabilize and we
expect that our financing receivables portfolio will begin to reflect this over
the course of 2010. We believe that the commercial financing markets in which we
operate (excluding commercial real estate, discussed below) are likewise
becoming more stable, and loss severity remains within an expected
range.  Delinquency and non-earnings rates in these businesses are
beginning to show signs of improvement and originations, while down, are at
generally higher margins. In our Consumer businesses, we continued throughout
2009 to raise underwriting standards, reduce open credit commitments and
maintain discipline in collections. The performance of this business has
historically been linked to the global economy and unemployment levels and we
expect 2010 losses to be about the same as our experience in 2009. Real Estate
continues to be under pressure, with limited market liquidity and challenging
economic conditions. We have and continue to maintain an intense focus on
operations and risk management; however, we expect current economic conditions
to persist in 2010, which will likely result in higher losses for Real Estate
compared with 2009. 

Losses
on financing receivables are recognized when they are incurred, which requires
us to make our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Such
estimate requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for
current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant
observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency
rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral
values (including housing price indices as applicable), and the present and
expected future levels of interest rates. Our risk management process includes
standards and policies for reviewing major risk exposures and concentrations,
and evaluates relevant data either for individual loans or financing leases, or
on a portfolio basis, as appropriate. Effective January 1, 2009, loans acquired
in a business acquisition are recorded at fair value, which incorporates our
estimate at the acquisition date of the credit losses over the remaining life of
the portfolio. As a result, the allowance for loan losses is not carried over at
acquisition. This may result in lower reserve coverage ratios
prospectively. 

For
purposes of the discussion that follows,  delinquent  receivables are those that
are 30 days or more past due based on their contractual terms; and  nonearning 
receivables are those that are 90 days or more past due (or for which collection
has otherwise become doubtful). Nonearning receivables exclude loans purchased
at a discount (unless they have deteriorated post acquisition). Under ASC 310,
 Receivables,  these
loans are initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the
estimated life of the loan based on reasonably estimable cash flows even if the
underlying loans are contractually delinquent at acquisition. In addition,
nonearning receivables exclude loans that are paying currently under a cash
accounting basis, but classified as impaired.  Recently restructured
financing receivables are not considered delinquent when payments are brought
current according to the restructured terms, but may remain classified as
nonearning until there has been a period of satisfactory payment performance by
the borrower and future payments are reasonably assured of
collection. 

(48) 

(a) 

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period s
      presentation. 

(b)   

At
      December 31, 2009, net of credit insurance, approximately 24% of this
      portfolio comprised loans with introductory, below-market rates that are
      scheduled to adjust at future dates; with high loan-to-value ratios at
      inception; whose terms permitted interest-only payments; or whose terms
      resulted in negative amortization. At origination, we underwrite loans
      with an adjustable rate to the reset value. 82% of these loans are in our
      U.K. and France portfolios, which comprise mainly loans with interest-only
      payments and introductory below-market rates, have a delinquency rate of
      18.3% and have loan-to-value ratio at origination of 74%. At December 31,
      2009, 1% (based on dollar values) of these loans in our U.K. and France
      portfolios have been restructured. 

(d)   

Consisted
      of loans and financing leases related to certain consolidated, liquidating
      securitization entities. 

(49) 

(a)   

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period s
      presentation. 

Further
information on the determination of the allowance for losses on financing
receivables is provided in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this
item and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

The
portfolio of financing receivables, before allowance for losses, was $345.0
billion at December 31, 2009, and $377.8 billion at December 31, 2008. Financing
receivables, before allowance for losses, decreased $32.8 billion from December
31, 2008, primarily as a result of core declines of $52.1 billion mainly from
collections exceeding originations ($44.0 billion) (which includes
securitization and sales), partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar ($17.8
billion) and acquisitions ($11.9 billion). 

Related
nonearning receivables totaled $13.3 billion (3.8% of outstanding receivables)
at December 31, 2009, compared with $8.0 billion (2.1% of outstanding
receivables) at December 31, 2008. Nonearning receivables increased from
December 31, 2008, primarily in connection with the challenging global economic
environment, increased deterioration in the real estate markets and rising
unemployment. 

The
allowance for losses at December 31, 2009, totaled $8.1 billion compared with
$5.3 billion at December 31, 2008, representing our best estimate of probable
losses inherent in the portfolio and reflecting the then-current credit and
economic environment. Allowance for losses increased $2.8 billion from December
31, 2008, primarily due to increasing delinquencies and nonearning receivables,
reflecting the continued weakened economic and credit environment. 

(50) 

Impaired 
loans in the table below are defined as larger balance or restructured loans for
which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement.  The
vast majority of our consumer and a portion of our CLL nonearning receivables
are excluded from this definition, as they represent smaller balance homogenous
loans that we evaluate collectively by portfolio for impairment. 

Impaired
loans include nonearning receivables on larger balance or restructured loans,
loans which are currently paying interest under the cash basis (but are excluded
from the nonearning category), and loans paying currently but which have been
previously restructured. 

Specific
reserves are recorded for individually impaired loans to the extent we judge
principal to be uncollectible. Certain loans classified as impaired may not
require a reserve. In these circumstances, we believe that we will ultimately
collect the unpaid balance (through collection or collateral
repossession). 

Further
information pertaining to loans classified as impaired and specific reserves is
included in the table below. 

(a) 

Recognized
      principally on cash basis. 

Impaired
loans increased by $9.3 billion from December 31, 2008, to December 31, 2009,
primarily relating to increases at Real Estate ($5.7 billion) and CLL ($2.7
billion). We regularly review our Real Estate loans for impairment using both
quantitative and qualitative factors, such as debt service coverage and
loan-to-value ratios. We classify Real Estate loans as impaired when the most
recent valuation reflects a projected loan-to-value ratio at maturity in excess
of 100%, even if the loan is currently paying in accordance with contractual
terms. The increase in impaired loans and related specific reserves at Real
Estate reflects our current estimate of collateral values of the underlying
properties, and our estimate of loans which are not past due, but for which it
is probable that we will be unable to collect the full principal balance at
maturity due to a decline in the underlying value of the collateral. Of our $6.5
billion impaired loans at Real Estate at December 31, 2009, approximately $4.4
billion are currently paying in accordance with the contractual terms of the
loan. Impaired loans at CLL primarily represent senior secured lending
positions. 

Our loss
mitigation strategy intends to minimize economic loss and, at times, can result
in rate reductions, principal forgiveness, forbearance or other actions, which
may cause the related loan to be classified as a troubled debt restructuring
(TDR). As required by GAAP, TDRs are included in impaired loans. As of December
31, 2009, TDRs included in impaired loans were $3.0 billion, primarily relating
to Real Estate ($1.1 billion), CLL ($1.0 billion) and Consumer ($0.9
billion). 

(51) 

CLL   Americas . Nonearning
receivables of $3.2 billion represented 23.8% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning
receivables declined from 42.7% at December 31, 2008, to 37.4% at December 31,
2009, primarily from an increase in secured exposures requiring relatively lower
specific reserve levels, based upon the strength of the underlying collateral
values. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a percent of financing
receivables increased from 1.9% at December 31, 2008, to 3.6% at December 31,
2009, primarily from an increase in nonearning receivables in our senior secured
lending portfolio concentrated in the following industries: media,
communications, corporate aircraft, auto, transportation, retail/publishing,
inventory finance, and franchise finance. 

CLL   Europe.  Nonearning
receivables of $1.4 billion represented 10.4% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning
receivables declined from 83.5% at December 31, 2008, to 39.4% at December 31,
2009, primarily from the increase in nonearning receivables related to the
acquisition of Interbanca S.p.A. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a
percent of financing receivables increased from 0.9% at December 31, 2008, to
3.5% at December 31, 2009, primarily from the increase in nonearning receivables
related to the acquisition of Interbanca S.p.A. and an increase in nonearning
receivables in secured lending in the automotive industry. 

CLL   Asia . Nonearning
receivables of $0.6 billion represented 4.3% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning
receivables declined from 53.3% at December 31, 2008, to 42.4% at December 31,
2009, primarily due to an increase in nonearning receivables in secured
exposures, which did not require significant specific reserves based upon the
strength of the underlying collateral values. The ratio of nonearning
receivables as a percent of financing receivables increased from 1.8% at
December 31, 2008, to 4.4% at December 31, 2009, primarily from an increase in
nonearning receivables at our corporate asset-based, distribution finance
and corporate air secured financing businesses in Japan, Australia, New Zealand
and India and a lower financing receivables balance. 

Consumer   Non-U.S. residential
mortgages . Nonearning receivables of $4.6 billion represented 34.3% of
total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for
losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased from 11.5% at December
31, 2008, to 20.9% at December 31, 2009. In 2009, our nonearning receivables
increased primarily as a result of the continued decline in the U.K. housing
market, partially offset by increased foreclosures. Our non-U.S. mortgage
portfolio has a loan-to-value ratio of approximately 75% at origination and the
vast majority are first lien positions. Our U.K. and France portfolios, which
comprise a majority of our total mortgage portfolio, have reindexed
loan-to-value ratios of 82% and 68%, respectively. Less than 4% of these loans
are without mortgage insurance and have a reindexed loan-to-value ratio equal to
or greater than 100%. Loan-to-value information is updated on a quarterly basis
for a majority of our loans and considers economic factors such as the housing
price index. At December 31, 2009, we had in repossession stock approximately
1,200 houses in the U.K., which had a value of approximately $0.2
billion. 

Consumer   Non-U.S. installment and
revolving credit.  Nonearning receivables of $0.5 billion represented 3.4%
of total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for
losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased from 254.5% at December
31, 2008, to 261.5% at December 31, 2009, reflecting increases in allowance for
loan losses, partially offset by the effects of loan repayments and reduced
originations. Allowance for losses as a percent of financing receivables
increased from 4.3% at December 31, 2008, to 4.7% at December 31, 2009, as
increases in allowance for loan losses were driven by the effects of increased
delinquencies in Europe and Australia, partially offset by the effects of
business dispositions. 

Consumer   U.S. installment and
revolving credit . Nonearning receivables of $0.8 billion represented 6.3%
of total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2009. The ratio of allowance for
losses as a percent of nonearning receivables declined from 224.3% at December
31, 2008, to 201.9% at December 31, 2009, as a result of the effects of loan
repayments and better entry rates, partially offset by increases in the
allowance for loan losses due to the effects of the continued deterioration in
our U.S. portfolio in connection with rising unemployment. 

(52) 

Real Estate.  Nonearning
receivables of $1.3 billion represented 9.4% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2009. The $1.1 billion increase in nonearning receivables from
December 31, 2008, was driven primarily by increased delinquencies in the U.S.
apartment and office loan portfolios, which have been adversely affected by rent
and occupancy declines. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of total
financing receivables increased from 0.6% at December 31, 2008, to 3.3% at
December 31, 2009, driven primarily by continued economic deterioration in the
U.S. and the U.K. markets, which resulted in an increase in both specific and
general credit loss provisions. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent
of nonearning receivables declined from 155.2% at December 31, 2008, to 119.3%
at December 31, 2009, reflecting a higher proportion of the allowance being
attributable to specific reserves and our estimate of underlying collateral
values. The allowance for losses on our real estate receivables may continue to
be adversely affected as the overall challenging economic environment continues
to pressure underlying property values. At December 31, 2009, real estate held
for investment included $0.8 billion representing 82 foreclosed commercial real
estate properties. 

(53) 

Delinquency
Rates 

Delinquency
rates on managed equipment financing loans and leases and managed consumer
financing receivables follow. 

Delinquency
rates on equipment financing loans and leases increased from December 31, 2008
and 2007, to December 31, 2009, as a result of the continuing weakness in the
global economic and credit environment. In addition, delinquency rates on
equipment financing loans and leases increased nine basis points from December
31, 2008, to December 31, 2009, as a result of the inclusion of the CitiCapital
acquisition. The challenging credit environment may continue to lead to a higher
level of commercial delinquencies and provisions for financing receivables and
could adversely affect results of operations at CLL. 

Delinquency
rates on consumer financing receivables increased from December 31, 2008 and
2007, to December 31, 2009, primarily because of rising unemployment, a
challenging economic environment and lower volume. In response, we continued to
tighten underwriting standards globally, increased focus on collection
effectiveness and will continue the process of regularly reviewing and adjusting
reserve levels. We expect the global environment, along with U.S. unemployment
levels, to further show signs of stabilization in 2010; however, a continued
challenging economic environment may continue to result in higher provisions for
loan losses and could adversely affect results of operations at Consumer. At
December 31, 2009, roughly 39% of our U.S. managed portfolio (excluding
delinquent or impaired), which consisted of credit cards, installment and
revolving loans, was receivable from subprime borrowers. We had no U.S. subprime
residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2009. See Note 6 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Other GECS receivables  totaled
$18.8 billion at December 31, 2009, and $18.6 billion at December 31, 2008, and
consisted primarily of amounts due from GE (generally related to material
procurement programs of $2.5 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively), amounts due from Qualified Special Purpose Entities
(QSPEs), insurance receivables, nonfinancing customer receivables, amounts
accrued from investment income, amounts due under operating leases and various
sundry items. 

Property, plant and equipment 
totaled $69.2 billion at December 31, 2009, down $9.3 billion from 2008,
primarily reflecting the deconsolidation of PTL and the classification of NBCU
and our Security business as held for sale. GE property, plant and equipment
consisted of investments for its own productive use, whereas the largest element
for GECS was equipment provided to third parties on operating leases. Details by
category of investment are presented in Note 7 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of
this Form 10-K Report. 

GE
additions to property, plant and equipment totaled $2.4 billion and $3.0 billion
in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Total expenditures, excluding equipment leased
to others, for the past five years were $13.9 billion, of which 38% was
investment for growth through new capacity and product development; 28% was
investment in productivity through new equipment and process improvements; and
34% was investment for other purposes such as improvement of research and
development facilities and safety and environmental protection. 

GECS
additions to property, plant and equipment were $6.4 billion and $13.3 billion
during 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily reflecting acquisitions and
additions of commercial aircraft at the GECAS business of Capital
Finance. 

(54) 

Goodwill and other intangible
assets  totaled $65.6 billion and $11.9 billion, respectively, at December
31, 2009. Goodwill decreased $16.2 billion from 2008, primarily from
dispositions (including the classification of NBCU and our Security business as
held for sale) and the PTL deconsolidation, partially offset by the effects of
the weaker U.S. dollar and acquisitions, including BAC and Interbanca S.p.A. by
Capital Finance and Airfoils Technologies International   Singapore Pte. Ltd.
(ATI   Singapore) at Technology Infrastructure. Other intangible assets
decreased $3.0 billion from 2008, primarily from dispositions and amortization
expense. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

All other assets  totaled
$103.4 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $3.5 billion, reflecting the
classification of NBCU as held for sale and decreases in the fair value of
derivative instruments, partially offset by a $5.8 billion equity method
investment in PTL following our partial sale in the first quarter of 2009 and
increases in contract costs and estimated earnings. We recognized
other-than-temporary impairments of cost and equity method investments of $0.9
billion and $0.5 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Included
in other assets are Real Estate equity investments of $32.2 billion and $32.8
billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our portfolio is
diversified, both geographically and by asset type. However, the global real
estate market is subject to periodic cycles that can cause significant
fluctuations in market value. Throughout the year, these markets have been
increasingly affected by rising unemployment, a slowdown in general business
activity and continued challenging conditions in the credit markets. We expect
these markets will continue to be affected while the economic environment
remains challenging. 

We
review the estimated values of our commercial real estate investments
semi-annually. As of our most recent estimate performed in 2009, the carrying
value of our Real Estate investments exceeded their estimated value by about $7
billion. The estimated value of the portfolio reflects the continued
deteriorating real estate values and market  fundamentals, including
reduced market occupancy rates and market rents as well as the effects of
limited real estate market liquidity. Given the current and expected challenging
market conditions, there continues to be risk and uncertainty surrounding
commercial real estate values and our unrealized loss on real estate equity
properties may continue to increase. Declines in estimated value of real estate
below carrying amount result in impairment losses when the aggregate
undiscounted cash flow estimates used in the estimated value measurement are
below the carrying amount. As such, estimated losses in the portfolio will not
necessarily result in recognized impairment losses. When we recognize an
impairment, the impairment is measured based upon the fair value of the
underlying asset which is based upon current market data, including current
capitalization rates. During 2009, Real Estate recognized pre-tax impairments of
$0.8 billion in its real estate investments, compared with $0.3 billion for the
comparable period in 2008. Continued deterioration in economic and market
conditions may result in further impairments being recognized. 

Contract
costs and estimated earnings reflect revenues earned in excess of billings on
our long-term contracts to construct technically complex equipment (such as
power generation, aircraft engines and aeroderivative units) and long-term
product maintenance or extended warranty arrangements. Our total contract costs
and estimated earnings balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $7.4 billion
and $6.0 billion, respectively, reflecting the timing of billing in relation to
work performed, as well as changes in estimates of future revenues and costs.
Our total contract costs and estimated earnings balance at December 31, 2009,
primarily related to customers in our Energy, Aviation and Transportation
businesses. Further information is provided in the Critical Accounting Estimates
section of this Item. 

Liquidity
and Borrowings 

We
manage our liquidity to help ensure access to sufficient funding at acceptable
costs to meet our business needs and financial obligations throughout business
cycles. Our obligations include principal payments on outstanding borrowings,
interest on borrowings, purchase obligations for inventory and equipment and
general obligations such as collateral deposits held or collateral required to
be posted to counterparties, payroll and general expenses. We rely on cash
generated through our operating activities as well as unsecured and secured
funding sources, including commercial paper, term debt, bank borrowings,
securitization and other retail funding products. 

(55) 

Sources
for payment of our obligations are determined through our annual financial and
strategic planning processes. Our 2010 funding plan anticipates repayment of
principal on outstanding short-term borrowings ($133.1 billion at December 31,
2009) through commercial paper issuances; cash on hand; long-term debt
issuances; collections of financing receivables exceeding originations; and
deposit funding and alternative sources of funding. 

Interest
on borrowings is primarily funded through interest earned on existing financing
receivables. During 2009, GECS earned interest income on financing receivables
of $23.4 billion, which more than offset interest expense of $17.9 billion.
Purchase obligations and other general obligations are funded through customer
sales revenues (industrial) or collection of principal on our existing portfolio
of loans and leases (financial services), cash on hand and operating cash
flow. 

We
maintain a strong focus on our liquidity. Since the fourth quarter of 2008, we
have taken a number of actions to strengthen and maintain liquidity,
including: 

At
      December 31, 2009, our cash and equivalents were $72.3 billion and
      committed credit lines were $51.7 billion, which in the aggregate were
      more than twice our GECS commercial paper borrowings balance. We intend to
      maintain committed credit lines and cash in excess of GECS commercial
      paper borrowings going forward. 

In
      2009, we reduced ENI (excluding the effects of currency exchange rates) in
      our Capital Finance business by approximately $53 billion, primarily
      through slowing originations. 

During
      2009, we issued an aggregate of $23.2 billion of long-term debt (including
      $3.2 billion in the fourth quarter) that is not guaranteed under the
      Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s (FDIC) Temporary Liquidity
      Guarantee Program (TLGP). 

At
      GECS, we are managing collections versus originations to help support
      liquidity needs. In 2009, collections exceeded originations by
      approximately $44.0 billion. 

As
      of December 31, 2009, we had issued notes from our securitization
      platforms in an aggregate amount of $14.0 billion; $4.3 billion of these
      notes were eligible for investors to use as collateral under the Federal
      Reserve Bank of New York s Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility
      (TALF). 

In
      February 2009, we announced the reduction of the quarterly GE stock
      dividend by 68%, from $0.31 per share to $0.10 per share, effective with
      the dividend approved by the Board in June 2009, which was paid in the
      third quarter. This reduction had the effect of reducing cash outflows of
      the company by approximately $4 billion in the second half of 2009 and
      will save approximately $9 billion annually
  thereafter. 

In
      September 2008, we reduced the GECS dividend to GE and suspended our stock
      repurchase program. Effective January 2009, we fully suspended the GECS
      dividend to GE. 

In
      October 2008, we raised $15 billion in cash through common and preferred
      stock offerings and we contributed $15 billion to GECS, including $9.5
      billion in the first quarter of 2009 (of which $8.8 billion was further
      contributed to GE Capital through capital contribution and share
      issuance), in order to improve tangible capital and reduce
      leverage. 

(56) 

Cash
and Equivalents 

We have
cash and equivalents of $72.3 billion at December 31, 2009, which is available
to meet Company needs. A substantial portion of this is freely available. About
$8 billion is in regulated entities and is subject to regulatory restrictions.
About $9 billion is held outside the U.S. and is available to fund operations
and other growth of non-U.S. subsidiaries; it is also available to fund Company
needs in the U.S. on a short-term basis (without being subject to U.S. tax). We
anticipate that we will continue to generate cash from operating activities in
the future, which will be available to help meet our liquidity needs. We also
generate substantial cash from the principal collections of loans and rentals
from leased assets. 

We have
committed, unused credit lines totaling $51.7 billion that had been extended to
us by 59 financial institutions at December 31, 2009. These lines include $36.8
billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can borrow funds for
periods exceeding one year. Additionally, $14.4 billion are 364-day lines that
contain a term-out feature that allows us to extend borrowings for one year from
the date of expiration of the lending agreement. 

Funding
Plan 

In 2009,
GECS issued $69.7 billion of long-term debt, including $46.5 billion issued
under the TLGP and $23.2 billion in non-guaranteed senior, unsecured debt with
maturities up to 30 years. Included in our 2009 issuances is $38 billion that
represents the pre-funding of our 2010 long-term debt funding plan. In 2010, we
have issued $5.1 billion (through February 15, 2010) toward our 2011 long-term
funding plan. 

Under
the TLGP, the FDIC guaranteed certain senior, unsecured debt issued on or before
October 31, 2009. Our TLGP-guaranteed debt matures in 2010 ($6 billion), 2011
($18 billion) and 2012 ($35 billion). We anticipate funding of these and our
other long-term debt maturities through a combination of new debt issuances,
collections exceeding originations, alternative funding sources and use of
existing cash. 

We
currently expect that the expiration of the TLGP will not have a significant
effect on our liquidity. If, however, significant disruption in the credit
markets were to return or if the challenging market conditions continue, our
ability to issue unsecured long-term debt may be affected. In the event we
cannot sufficiently access our normal sources of funding as a result of the
ongoing credit market turmoil, we have a number of alternative means to enhance
liquidity, including: 

Controlling
      new originations in GE Capital to reduce capital and funding
      requirements 

Using
      part of our available cash balance 

Pursuing
      alternative funding sources, including bank deposits and asset-backed
      fundings 

Using
      our bank credit lines which, with our cash, we intend to maintain in
      excess of our outstanding commercial
paper 

Generating
      additional cash from industrial
operations 

Contributing
      additional capital from GE to GE Capital, including from funds retained as
      a result of the reduction in our dividend announced in February 2009 or
      future dividend reductions 

We
believe that our existing funds, combined with our alternative means to enhance
liquidity, provide us with sufficient funds to meet our needs and financial
obligations. 

(57) 

We
maintain securitization capability in most of the asset classes we have
traditionally securitized. However, in 2008 and 2009 these capabilities have
been, and continue to be, more limited than in 2007. We have continued to
execute new securitizations throughout this period using bank administered
commercial paper conduits, and more recently have executed new securitizations
in both the public term markets and in the private markets. In 2009, we have
completed issuances from these platforms in an aggregate amount of $14.0
billion. $4.3 billion of these issuances were eligible for investors to use as
collateral under TALF. Total proceeds, including sales to revolving facilities,
from our securitizations were $18.7 billion and $71.4 billion during the three
months and year-ended December 31, 2009, respectively. Comparable amounts for
2008 were $17.8 billion and $76.8 billion, respectively. 

We have
deposit-taking capability at 18 banks outside of the U.S. and two banks in the
U.S.   GE Money Bank, a Federal Savings Bank (FSB), and GE Capital Financial
Inc., an industrial bank (IB). The FSB and IB currently issue certificates of
deposit (CDs) distributed by brokers in maturity terms from three months to ten
years. Bank deposits, which are a large component of our alternative funding,
were $38.9 billion at December 31, 2009, including CDs of $17.7 billion. Total
alternative funding increased from $55 billion to $57 billion during 2009,
primarily resulting from an increase in bank deposits mainly from the
acquisitions of BAC and Interbanca S.p.A., partially offset by a planned
reduction in bank borrowings. 

Exchange rate and interest rate
risks  are managed with a variety of techniques, including match funding
and selective use of derivatives. We use derivatives to mitigate or eliminate
certain financial and market risks because we conduct business in diverse
markets around the world and local funding is not always efficient. In addition,
we use derivatives to adjust the debt we are issuing to match the fixed or
floating nature of the assets we are originating. We apply strict policies to
manage each of these risks, including prohibitions on speculative activities.
Following is an analysis of the potential effects of changes in interest rates
and currency exchange rates using so-called  shock  tests that model effects of
shifts in rates. These are not forecasts. 

It
      is our policy to minimize exposure to interest rate changes. We fund our
      financial investments using debt or a combination of debt and hedging
      instruments so that the interest rates of our borrowings match the
      expected yields on our assets. To test the effectiveness of our positions,
      we assumed that, on January 1, 2010, interest rates increased by 100 basis
      points across the yield curve (a  parallel shift  in that curve) and
      further assumed that the increase remained in place for 2010. We
      estimated, based on the year-end 2009 portfolio and holding all other
      assumptions constant, that our 2010 consolidated net earnings would
      decline by $0.1 billion as a result of this parallel shift in the yield
      curve. 

It
      is our policy to minimize currency exposures and to conduct operations
      either within functional currencies or using the protection of hedge
      strategies. We analyzed year-end 2009 consolidated currency exposures,
      including derivatives designated and effective as hedges, to identify
      assets and liabilities denominated in other than their relevant functional
      currencies. For such assets and liabilities, we then evaluated the effects
      of a 10% shift in exchange rates between those currencies and the U.S.
      dollar. This analysis indicated that there would be an inconsequential
      effect on 2010 earnings of such a shift in exchange
  rates. 

Debt
Instruments, Guarantees and Covenants 

Credit
Ratings 

The
major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based
on a number of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency
with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. On March 12, 2009,
Standard   Poor s (S P) downgraded GE and GE Capital s long-term rating
by one notch from  AAA  to  AA+  and, at the same time, revised the outlook from
negative to stable. Under S P s definitions, an obligation rated  AAA  has
the highest rating assigned by S P. The obligor's capacity to meet its
financial commitment on the obligation is extremely strong. An obligation rated
 AA  differs from an obligation rated  AAA  only to a small degree in that the
obligor's capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation is very
strong. An S P rating outlook assesses the potential direction of a
long-term credit rating over the intermediate term. In determining a rating
outlook, consideration is given to any changes in the economic and/or
fundamental business conditions. Stable means that a rating is not likely to
change in the next six months to two years. 

(58) 

On March
23, 2009, Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) downgraded GE and GE Capital s
long-term rating by two notches from  Aaa  to  Aa2  with a stable outlook and
removed us from review for possible downgrade. Under Moody s definitions,
obligations rated  Aaa  are judged to be of the highest quality, with minimal
credit risk. Obligations rated  Aa  are judged to be of high quality and are
subject to very low credit risk. 

In 2009,
the short-term ratings of  A-1+/P-1  were affirmed by both rating agencies at
the same time with respect to GE, GE Capital Services and GE Capital. These
short-term ratings are in the highest rating categories available from S P
and Moody's. Under the S P definitions, a short-term obligation rated "A-1+"
indicates that the obligor's capacity to meet its financial commitment is
extremely strong. Under the Moody's definitions, an issuer that is rated "P-1"
has a superior ability to repay short-term debt obligations. 

We do
not believe that the downgrades by S P and Moody s have had a material
impact on our cost of funding or liquidity as the downgrades had been widely
anticipated in the market and were already reflected in the spreads on our
debt. 

GE, GECS
and GE Capital have distinct business characteristics that the major debt rating
agencies evaluate both quantitatively and qualitatively. 

Quantitative
measures include: 

Earnings
      and profitability, revenue growth, the breadth and diversity of sources of
      income and return on assets 

Asset
      quality, including delinquency and write-off ratios and reserve
      coverage 

Funding
      and liquidity, including cash generated from operating activities,
      leverage ratios such as debt-to-capital, retained cash flow to debt,
      market access, back-up liquidity from banks and other sources, composition
      of total debt and interest coverage 

Capital
      adequacy, including required capital and tangible leverage
      ratios 

Qualitative
measures include: 

Franchise
      strength, including competitive advantage and market conditions and
      position 

Strength
      of management, including experience, corporate governance and strategic
      thinking 

Financial
      reporting quality, including clarity, completeness and transparency of all
      financial performance
communications 

Principal debt conditions  are
described below. 

The
following conditions relate to GE and GECS: 

Swap,
      forward and option contracts are executed under standard master agreements
      that typically contain mutual downgrade provisions that provide the
      ability of the counterparty to require termination if the long-term credit
      rating of the applicable GE entity were to fall below A-/A3. In certain of
      these master agreements, the counterparty also has the ability to require
      termination if the short-term rating of the applicable GE entity were to
      fall below A-1/P-1. The net derivative liability after consideration of
      netting arrangements and collateral posted by us under these master
      agreements was estimated to be $1.3 billion at December 31, 2009. See Note
      22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
    Report. 

(59) 

If
      GE Capital's ratio of earnings to fixed charges were to deteriorate to
      below 1.10:1, GE has committed to make payments to GE Capital. See Income
      Maintenance Agreement section of this Item for further discussion. GE also
      guaranteed certain issuances of GECS subordinated debt having a face
      amount of $0.4 billion at December 31, 2009 and
  2008. 

In
      connection with certain subordinated debentures for which GECC receives
      equity credit by rating agencies, GE has agreed to promptly return to GECC
      dividends, distributions or other payments it receives from GECC during
      events of default or interest deferral periods under such subordinated
      debentures. There were $7.6 billion of such debentures outstanding at
      December 31, 2009. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in
      Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this
      Form 10-K Report. 

The
following conditions relate to consolidated entities: 

If
      the short-term credit rating of GE Capital or certain consolidated
      entities were to be reduced below A-1/P-1, GE Capital would be required to
      provide substitute liquidity for those entities or provide funds to retire
      the outstanding commercial paper. The maximum net amount that GE Capital
      would be required to provide in the event of such a downgrade is
      determined by contract, and amounted to $2.5 billion at December 31, 2009.
      See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
      Report. 

One
      group of consolidated entities holds investment securities funded by the
      issuance of GICs. If the long-term credit rating of GE Capital were to
      fall below AA-/Aa3 or its short-term credit rating were to fall below
      A-1+/P-1, GE Capital would be required to provide approximately $2.4
      billion to such entities as of December 31, 2009, pursuant to letters of
      credit issued by GE Capital. To the extent that the entities  liabilities
      exceed the ultimate value of the proceeds from the sale of their assets
      and the amount drawn under the letters of credit, GE Capital could be
      required to provide such excess amount. As of December 31, 2009, the value
      of these entities  liabilities was $8.5 billion and the fair value of
      their assets was $7.3 billion (which included unrealized losses on
      investment securities of $1.4 billion). With respect to these investment
      securities, we intend to hold them at least until such time as their
      individual fair values exceed their amortized cost and we have the ability
      to hold all such debt securities until
maturity. 

Another
      consolidated entity also issues GICs where proceeds are loaned to GE
      Capital. If the long-term credit rating of GE Capital were to fall below
      AA-/Aa3 or its short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GE
      Capital could be required to provide up to approximately $3.0 billion as
      of December 31, 2009, to repay holders of GICs. These obligations are
      included in Long-term borrowings in our Statement of Financial
      Position. 

If
      the short-term credit rating of GE Capital were reduced below A-1/P-1, GE
      Capital would be required to partially cash collateralize certain covered
      bonds. The maximum amount that would be required to be provided in the
      event of such a downgrade is determined by contract and amounted to $0.8
      billion at December 31, 2009. These obligations are included in Long-term
      borrowings in our Statement of Financial
  Position. 

Ratio
of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

As set
forth in Exhibit 99(e) hereto, GE Capital s ratio of earnings to fixed charges
declined to 0.85:1 during 2009 due to lower pre-tax earnings at GE Capital,
which were primarily driven by higher provisions for losses on financing
receivables in connection with the challenging economic
environment. 

(60) 

Income
Maintenance Agreement 

On March
28, 1991, GE entered into an agreement with GE Capital to make payments to GE
Capital, constituting additions to pre-tax income under the agreement, to the
extent necessary to cause the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GE Capital
and consolidated affiliates (determined on a consolidated basis) to be not less
than 1.10:1 for the period, as a single aggregation, of each GE Capital fiscal
year commencing with fiscal year 1991. On October 29, 2009, GE and GE Capital
amended this agreement (which is filed as Exhibit 10(v) hereto) to extend the
notice period for termination from three years to five years. It was further
amended to provide that any future amendments to the agreement that could
adversely affect GE Capital require the consent of the majority of the holders
of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of senior unsecured debt
securities issued or guaranteed by GE Capital (with an original stated maturity
in excess of 270 days), unless the amendment does not trigger a downgrade of GE
Capital s long-term ratings. 

GE made
a $9.5 billion payment to GECS in the first quarter of 2009 (of which $8.8
billion was further contributed to GE Capital through capital contribution and
share issuance) to improve tangible capital and reduce leverage. This payment
constitutes an addition to pre-tax income under the agreement and therefore
increased the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GE Capital for the fiscal
year 2009 for purposes of the agreement to 1.33:1. As a result, no further
payments under the agreement in 2010 are required related to 2009. Should this
ratio fall below 1.10:1 for the fiscal year 2010, further payments would be
required by GE to GE Capital. We currently expect to make a payment from GE to
GE Capital in 2011 of about $2 billion pursuant to this agreement. 

Any
payment made under the Income Maintenance Agreement will not affect the ratio of
earnings to fixed charges as determined in accordance with current SEC rules
because it does not constitute an addition to pre-tax income under current U.S.
GAAP. 

TLGP 

On
November 12, 2008, the FDIC approved GE Capital s application for designation as
an eligible entity under the FDIC s TLGP. Qualifying debt issued by GE Capital
on or before October 31, 2009, is guaranteed under the Debt Guarantee Program of
the TLGP and is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. The
FDIC s guarantee under the TLGP is effective until the earlier of the maturity
of the debt or December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2009, GE Capital had issued
and outstanding, $59.3 billion of senior, unsecured debt that was guaranteed by
the FDIC under the TLGP. We have incurred $2.3 billion of fees for our
participation in the TLGP through December 31, 2009. These fees are amortized
into interest expense over the terms of the related borrowings. GE Capital and
GE are parties to an Eligible Entity Designation Agreement and GE Capital is
subject to the terms of a Master Agreement, each entered into with the FDIC. The
terms of these agreements include, among other things, a requirement that GE and
GE Capital reimburse the FDIC for any amounts that the FDIC pays to holders of
GE Capital debt that is guaranteed by the FDIC. 

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity 

GE
shareowners  equity increased by $12.6 billion in 2009, compared with a decrease
of $10.9 billion in 2008 and an increase of $4.1 billion in 2007. 

Net
earnings increased GE shareowners' equity by $11.0 billion, $17.4 billion and
$22.2 billion, partially offset by dividends declared of $6.8 billion, $12.6
billion and $11.7 billion in 2009, 2008, 2007, respectively. 

Elements
of Other Comprehensive Income increased shareowners  equity by $6.7 billion in
2009, compared with a decrease of $30.2 billion in 2008 and an increase of $4.9
billion in 2007, inclusive of changes in accounting principles. The components
of these changes are as follows: 

(61) 

Changes
      in benefit plans reduced shareowners  equity by $1.8 billion in 2009,
      primarily reflecting a decrease in the discount rate used to value pension
      and postretirement benefit obligations. This compared with a decrease of
      $13.3 billion and an increase of $2.6 billion in 2008 and 2007,
      respectively. The decrease in 2008 primarily related to declines in the
      fair value of plan assets as a result of market conditions and adverse
      changes in the economic environment. Further information about changes in
      benefit plans is provided in Note 12 to the consolidated financial
      statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Currency
      translation adjustments increased shareowners  equity by $4.1 billion in
      2009, decreased equity by $11.0 billion in 2008 and increased equity by
      $4.5 billion in 2007. Changes in currency translation adjustments reflect
      the effects of changes in currency exchange rates on our net investment in
      non-U.S. subsidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U.S.
      dollar. At the end of 2009, the U.S. dollar was weaker against most major
      currencies, including the pound sterling, the Australian dollar and the
      euro, compared with a stronger dollar against those currencies at the end
      of 2008 and a weaker dollar against those currencies at the end of 2007.
      The dollar was weaker against the Japanese yen in 2008 and
      2007. 

The
      change in fair value of investment securities increased shareowners 
      equity by $2.7 billion in 2009, reflecting improved market conditions
      related to securities classified as available for sale, primarily
      corporate debt and mortgage-backed securities. The change in fair value of
      investment securities decreased shareowners  equity by $3.2 billion and
      $1.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Further information about
      investment securities is provided in Note 3 to the consolidated financial
      statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Changes
      in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges increased
      shareowners  equity by $1.6 billion in 2009, primarily related to the
      effect of higher U.S. interest rates on interest rate swaps and lower
      foreign rates on cross-currency swaps. The change in the fair value of
      derivatives designated as cash flow hedges decreased equity by $2.7
      billion and $0.5 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Further
      information about the fair value of derivatives is provided in Note 22 to
      the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
    Report. 

As
discussed previously in the Liquidity and Borrowings section of this Item, we
took a number of actions in 2008 and 2009 to strengthen our liquidity and our
credit rating. Such actions also had an effect on shareowners  equity, which
included a $15 billion addition to equity through common and preferred stock
offerings in the fourth quarter of 2008 and reduction in the dividend on GE
stock, which had a $4 billion positive effect on equity in 2009. 

Overview
of Our Cash Flow from 2007 through 2009 

Consolidated
cash and equivalents were $72.3 billion at December 31, 2009, an increase of
$24.1 billion from December 31, 2008. Cash and equivalents totaled $48.2 billion
at December 31, 2008, an increase of $32.5 billion from December 31,
2007. 

We
evaluate our cash flow performance by reviewing our industrial (non-financial
services) businesses and financial services businesses separately. Cash from
operating activities (CFOA) is the principal source of cash generation for our
industrial businesses. The industrial businesses also have liquidity available
via the public capital markets. Our financial services businesses use a variety
of financial resources to meet our capital needs. Cash for financial services
businesses is primarily provided from the issuance of term debt and commercial
paper in the public and private markets, as well as financing receivables
collections, sales and securitizations. 

GE
Cash Flow 

GE cash
and equivalents were $8.7 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with $12.1
billion at December 31, 2008. GE CFOA totaled $16.6 billion in 2009 compared
with $19.1 billion and $23.3 billion in 2008 and 2007, respectively. With
respect to GE CFOA, we believe that it is useful to supplement our GE Statement
of Cash Flows and to examine in a broader context the business activities that
provide and require cash. 

(62) 

(a) 

GE
      sells customer receivables to GECS in part to fund the growth of our
      industrial businesses. These transactions can result in cash generation or
      cash use. During any given period, GE receives cash from the sale of
      receivables to GECS. It also foregoes collection of cash on receivables
      sold. The incremental amount of cash received from sale of receivables in
      excess of the cash GE would have otherwise collected had those receivables
      not been sold, represents the cash generated or used in the period
      relating to this activity. The incremental cash generated in GE CFOA from
      selling these receivables to GECS increased GE CFOA by an insignificant
      amount and $0.1 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. See Note 26 to the
      consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. "Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data" for this Form 10-K Report for
      additional information about the elimination of intercompany transactions
      between GE and GECS. 

The most
significant source of cash in GE CFOA is customer-related activities, the
largest of which is collecting cash following a product or services sale. GE
operating cash collections decreased by $11.4 billion in 2009 and increased by
$12.7 billion in 2008. These changes are consistent with the changes in
comparable GE operating segment revenues. Analyses of operating segment revenues
discussed in the preceding Segment Operations section are the best way of
understanding their customer-related CFOA. 

The most
significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, tax
authorities and others for a wide range of material and services. GE operating
cash payments decreased in 2009 by $11.3 billion and increased by $12.0 billion
in 2008. These changes are consistent with the changes in GE total costs and
expenses. 

GE CFOA
decreased $2.5 billion compared with 2008, primarily reflecting the lack of a
current-year dividend from GECS ($2.4 billion). In 2008, GE CFOA decreased $4.2
billion compared with 2007, primarily reflecting a decrease in the dividend from
GECS of $4.9 billion. 

Dividends
from GECS represented the distribution of a portion of GECS retained earnings
and are distinct from cash from continuing operating activities within the
financial services businesses. The amounts included in GE CFOA are the total
dividends, including normal dividends as well as any special dividends from
excess capital, primarily resulting from GECS business sales. Beginning in the
first quarter of 2009, GECS fully suspended its normal dividend to
GE. 

GECS
Cash Flow 

GECS
cash and equivalents were $64.4 billion at December 31, 2009, compared with
$37.5 billion at December 31, 2008. GECS cash from operating activities totaled
$7.6 billion in 2009, compared with cash from operating activities of $31.2
billion in 2008. This decrease was primarily due to an overall decline in net
earnings, a current-year reduction in cash collateral held from counterparties
on derivative contracts of $6.9 billion and declines in taxes payable ($2.7
billion). In addition, 2008 GECS cash from operating activities benefited from
an increase in cash collateral posted by counterparties. 

Consistent
with our plan to reduce GECS asset levels, cash from investing activities was
$45.7 billion in 2009; $44.0 billion resulted from a reduction in financing
receivables, primarily from collections exceeding originations and $9.1 billion
resulted from proceeds from business dispositions, including the consumer
businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the
U.K., the credit card business in Ireland, a portion of our Australian
residential mortgage business and the Thailand business. These sources were
partially offset by cash used for acquisitions of $5.7 billion, primarily for
the acquisition of Interbanca S.p.A. 

GECS
cash used for financing activities in 2009 reflected our continued reduction in
ending net investment. Cash used for financing activities of $26.4 billion
related primarily to a $26.9 billion reduction in borrowings (maturities 90 days
or less), primarily commercial paper, reductions in long-term borrowings
partially offset by the pre-funding of our 2010 long-term debt maturities, and a
$4.0 billion decrease in bank deposits, partially offset by a capital
contribution from GE to GECS of $9.5 billion. 

(63) 

GECS
pays dividends to GE through a distribution of its retained earnings, including
special dividends from proceeds of certain business sales. There were no
dividends paid to GE in 2009 compared with $2.4 billion and $7.3 billion in 2008
and 2007, respectively. There were no special dividends paid to GE in 2009 and
2008, compared with $2.4 billion in 2007. 

Intercompany
Eliminations 

Effects
of transactions between related companies are eliminated and consist primarily
of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer
receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and
material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased
between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS
by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft
purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various
investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. See Note 26
to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report for further
information related to intercompany eliminations. 

Contractual
Obligations 

As
defined by reporting regulations, our contractual obligations for future
payments as of December 31, 2009, follow. 

(a) 

Included
      all take-or-pay arrangements, capital expenditures, contractual
      commitments to purchase equipment that will be leased to others,
      contractual commitments related to factoring agreements, software
      acquisition/license commitments, contractual minimum programming
      commitments and any contractually required cash payments for
      acquisitions. 

(b) 

Excluded
      funding commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business by our
      financial services businesses. Further information on these commitments
      and other guarantees is provided in Note 24 to the consolidated financial
      statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

(c) 

Included
      contracts with reasonably determinable cash flows such as structured
      settlements, certain property and casualty contracts, and guaranteed
      investment contracts. 

(d) 

Included
      an estimate of future expected funding requirements related to our pension
      and postretirement benefit plans and included liabilities for unrecognized
      tax benefits. Because their future cash outflows are uncertain, the
      following non-current liabilities are excluded from the table above:
      deferred taxes, derivatives, deferred revenue and other sundry items. See
      Notes 14 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item
      8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report
      for further information on certain of these
  items. 

(e) 

Included
      payments for other liabilities. 

Variable
Interest Entities and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

We
securitize financial assets and arrange other forms of asset-backed financing in
the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner returns and as an
alternative source of funding. The securitization transactions we engage in are
similar to those used by many financial institutions. Our securitization
activities are conducted using Variable Interest Entities (VIEs), principally
QSPEs. 

(64) 

Certain
of our VIEs are consolidated because we are considered to be the primary
beneficiary of the entity. Our interests in other VIEs for which we are not the
primary beneficiary and QSPEs are accounted for as investment securities,
financing receivables or equity method investments depending on the nature of
our involvement. At December 31, 2009, consolidated variable interest entity
assets and liabilities were $17.0 billion and $15.2 billion, respectively, a
decrease of $9.9 billion and $6.2 billion from 2008, respectively. In the first
quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated PTL and removed $7.0 billion of assets and
$0.8 billion of liabilities from our balance sheet. The deconsolidation was a
result of our reducing our investment in PTL by selling a 1% limited partnership
interest to Penske Truck Leasing Corporation, the general partner of PTL, whose
majority shareowner is a member of GE s Board of Directors, coupled with our
resulting minority position on the PTL advisory committee and related changes in
our contractual rights. We recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $0.3
billion, including a gain on the remeasurement of our retained investment of
$0.2 billion. 

At
December 31, 2009, variable interests in unconsolidated VIEs other than QSPEs
were $9.7 billion, an increase of $5.7 billion from 2008, primarily related to
the deconsolidation of PTL. In addition to our existing investments, we have
contractual obligations to fund additional investments in the unconsolidated
VIEs of $1.4 billion, an increase of $0.2 billion from 2008. Together, these
represent our maximum exposure to loss if the assets of the unconsolidated VIEs
were to have no value. 

QSPEs
that we use for securitization are funded with asset-backed commercial paper and
term debt. The assets we securitize include: receivables secured by equipment,
commercial real estate, credit card receivables, floorplan inventory
receivables, GE trade receivables and other assets originated and underwritten
by us in the ordinary course of business. At December 31, 2009, securitization
entities held $46.9 billion in transferred financial assets, a decrease of $5.7
billion from year-end 2008. Assets held by these entities are of equivalent
credit quality to our on-book assets. We monitor the underlying credit quality
in accordance with our role as servicer and apply rigorous controls to the
execution of securitization transactions. With the exception of credit and
liquidity support discussed below, investors in these entities have recourse
only to the underlying assets. 

At
December 31, 2009, our Statement of Financial Position included $11.8 billion in
retained interests related to the transferred financial assets discussed above.
These retained interests are held by QSPEs and VIEs for which we are not the
primary beneficiary and take two forms: (1) sellers  interests, which are
classified as financing receivables, and (2) subordinated interests, designed to
provide credit enhancement to senior interests, which are classified as
investment securities. The carrying value of our retained interests classified
as financing receivables was $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease
of  $1.2 billion from 2008. The carrying value of our retained
interests classified as investment securities was $8.8 billion at December 31,
2009, an increase of $2.5 billion from 2008. Certain of these retained interests
are accounted for with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. During 2009,
we recognized increases in fair values on these retained interests of $0.3
billion compared with declines in fair value on these retained interests of $0.1
billion in 2008. For those retained interests classified as investment
securities, we recognized other-than-temporary impairments of $0.1 billion in
2009, compared with $0.3 billion in 2008. Our recourse liability in these
arrangements was an inconsequential amount in both 2009 and 2008. 

We are
party to various credit enhancement positions with securitization entities,
including liquidity and credit support agreements and guarantee and
reimbursement contracts, and have provided our best estimate of the fair value
of estimated losses on such positions. The estimate of fair value is based on
prevailing market conditions at December 31, 2009. Should market conditions
deteriorate, actual losses could be higher. Our exposure to loss under such
agreements was limited to $2.1 billion at December 31, 2009. 

We do
not have implicit support arrangements with any VIE or QSPE. We did not provide
non-contractual support for previously transferred financing receivables to any
VIE or QSPE in either 2009 or 2008. 

(65) 

In 2009,
the FASB issued ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17 amendments to ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing , and
ASC 810,  Consolidation ,
respectively, which are effective for us on January 1, 2010. ASU 2009-16 will
eliminate the QSPE concept, and ASU 2009-17 will require that all such entities
be evaluated for consolidation as VIEs, which will result in our consolidating
substantially all of our former QSPEs. Upon adoption we will record assets and
liabilities of these entities at carrying amounts consistent as if they had
always been consolidated, which will require the reversal of a portion of
previously recognized securitization gains as a cumulative effect adjustment to
retained earnings. See the New Accounting Standards section of this Item for
further discussion. 

Critical
Accounting Estimates 

Accounting
estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider
to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because
they involve significant judgments and uncertainties. Many of these estimates
include determining fair value. All of these estimates reflect our best judgment
about current, and for some estimates future, economic and market conditions and
their effects based on information available as of the date of these financial
statements. If these conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably
possible that the judgments and estimates described below could change, which
may result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill, intangibles
and long-lived assets, incremental losses on financing receivables,
establishment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax
liabilities, among other effects. Also see Note 1, Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies, in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data  of this Form 10-K Report, which discusses the significant accounting
policies that we have selected from acceptable alternatives. 

Losses on financing
receivables  are recognized when they are incurred, which requires us to
make our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. This
estimate requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for
current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant
observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency
rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral
values, and the present and expected future levels of interest rates. Our risk
management process includes standards and policies for reviewing major risk
exposures and concentrations, and we evaluate relevant data either for
individual loans or financing leases, or on a portfolio basis, as
appropriate. 

Further
information is provided in the Global Risk Management section and Financial
Resources and Liquidity   Financing Receivables section of this Item, the Asset
impairment section that follows and in Notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Revenue recognition on long-term
product services agreements  requires estimates of profits over the
multiple-year terms of such agreements, considering factors such as the
frequency and extent of future monitoring, maintenance and overhaul events; the
amount of personnel, spare parts and other resources required to perform the
services; and future billing rate and cost changes. We routinely review
estimates under product services agreements and regularly revise them to adjust
for changes in outlook. We also regularly assess customer credit risk inherent
in the carrying amounts of receivables and contract costs and estimated
earnings, including the risk that contractual penalties may not be sufficient to
offset our accumulated investment in the event of customer termination. We gain
insight into future utilization and cost trends, as well as credit risk, through
our knowledge of the installed base of equipment and the close interaction with
our customers that comes with supplying critical services and parts over
extended periods. Revisions that affect a product services agreement s total
estimated profitability result in an adjustment of earnings; such adjustments
increased earnings by $0.2 billion in 2009, decreased earnings by $0.2 billion
in 2008 and increased earnings by $0.4 billion in 2007. We provide for probable
losses when they become evident. 

Further
information is provided in Notes 1 and 9 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of
this Form 10-K Report. 

(66) 

Asset impairment  assessment
involves various estimates and assumptions as follows: 

Investments.  We regularly
review investment securities for impairment using both quantitative and
qualitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the FASB amended ASC 320 and
modified the requirements for recognizing and measuring other-than-temporary
impairment for debt securities. If we do not intend to sell the security and it
is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before
recovery of our amortized cost, we evaluate other qualitative criteria to
determine whether a credit loss exists, such as the financial health of and
specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer is in compliance
with the terms and covenants of the security. Quantitative criteria include
determining whether there has been an adverse change in expected future cash
flows. For equity securities, our criteria include the length of time and
magnitude of the amount that each security is in an unrealized loss position.
Our other-than-temporary impairment reviews involve our finance, risk and asset
management functions as well as the portfolio management and research
capabilities of our internal and third-party asset managers. See Note 21 in Part
II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report, which discusses the determination of fair value of investment
securities. 

Further
information about actual and potential impairment losses is provided in the
Financial Resources and Liquidity   Investment Securities section of this Item
and in Notes 1, 3 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Long-Lived Assets.  We review
long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining
whether an impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and
assumptions, including determining which undiscounted cash flows are directly
related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over which cash flows
will occur, their amount, and the asset s residual value, if any. In turn,
measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which
is based on the best information available. We derive the required undiscounted
cash flow estimates from our historical experience and our internal business
plans. To determine fair value, we use quoted market prices when available, our
internal cash flow estimates discounted at an appropriate interest rate and
independent appraisals, as appropriate. 

Our
operating lease portfolio of commercial aircraft is a significant concentration
of assets in Capital Finance, and is particularly subject to market
fluctuations. Therefore, we test recoverability of each aircraft in our
operating lease portfolio at least annually. Additionally, we perform quarterly
evaluations in circumstances such as when aircraft are re-leased, current lease
terms have changed or a specific lessee s credit standing changes. We consider
market conditions, such as global demand for commercial aircraft. Estimates of
future rentals and residual values are based on historical experience and
information received routinely from independent appraisers. Estimated cash flows
from future leases are reduced for expected downtime between leases and for
estimated technical costs required to prepare aircraft to be redeployed. Fair
value used to measure impairment is based on management's best estimate. In
determining its best estimate, management evaluates average current market
values (obtained from third parties) of similar type and age aircraft, which are
adjusted for the attributes of the specific aircraft under lease. 

We
recognized impairment losses on our operating lease portfolio of commercial
aircraft of $0.1 billion in both 2009 and 2008. Provisions for losses on
financing receivables related to commercial aircraft were $0.1 billion in 2009
and insignificant in 2008. 

Further
information on impairment losses and our exposure to the commercial aviation
industry is provided in the Operations   Overview section of this Item and in
Notes 7 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

(67) 

Real Estate.  We review the
estimated value of our commercial real estate investments semi-annually. The
cash flow estimates used for both estimating value and the recoverability
analysis are inherently judgmental, and reflect current and projected lease
profiles, available industry information about expected trends in rental,
occupancy and capitalization rates and expected business plans, which include
our estimated holding period for the asset. Our portfolio is diversified, both
geographically and by asset type. However, the global real estate market is
subject to periodic cycles that can cause significant fluctuations in market
values. As of our most recent estimate performed in 2009, the carrying value of
our Real Estate investments exceeded their estimated value by about $7 billion.
The estimated value of the portfolio reflects the continued deteriorating real
estate values and market fundamentals, including reduced market occupancy rates
and market rents as well as the effects of limited real estate market liquidity.
Given the current and expected challenging market conditions, there continues to
be risk and uncertainty surrounding commercial real estate values and our
unrealized loss on real estate equity properties may continue to increase.
Declines in the estimated value of real estate below carrying amount result in
impairment losses when the aggregate undiscounted cash flow estimates used in
the estimated value measurement are below the carrying amount. As such,
estimated losses in the portfolio will not necessarily result in recognized
impairment losses. When we recognize an impairment, the impairment is measured
based upon the fair value of the underlying asset, which is based upon current
market data, including current capitalization rates. During 2009, Capital
Finance Real Estate recognized pre-tax impairments of $0.8 billion in its real
estate held for investment, as compared to $0.3 billion in 2008. Continued
deterioration in economic conditions or prolonged market illiquidity may result
in further impairments being recognized. Furthermore, significant judgment and
uncertainty related to forecasted valuation trends, especially in illiquid
markets, results in inherent imprecision in real estate value estimates. Further
information is provided in the Global Risk Management section of this Item and
in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Goodwill and Other Identified
Intangible Assets.  We test goodwill for impairment annually and more
frequently if circumstances warrant. We determine fair values for each of the
reporting units using an income approach. When available and as appropriate, we
use comparative market multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results.
For purposes of the income approach, fair value is determined based on the
present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate
risk-adjusted rate. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows
and include an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on our most
recent views of the long-term outlook for each business. Actual results may
differ from those assumed in our forecasts. We derive our discount rates by
applying the capital asset pricing model (i.e., to estimate the cost of equity
financing) and analyzing published rates for industries relevant to our
reporting units. We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and
uncertainty inherent in the respective businesses and in our internally
developed forecasts. Valuations using the market approach reflect prices and
other relevant observable information generated by market transactions involving
comparable businesses. 

Compared
to the market approach, the income approach more closely aligns the reporting
unit valuation to a company s or business  specific business model, geographic
markets and product offerings, as it is based on specific projections of the
business. Required rates of return, along with uncertainty inherent in the
forecasts of future cash flows, are reflected in the selection of the discount
rate. Equally important, under this approach, reasonably likely scenarios and
associated sensitivities can be developed for alternative future circumstances
that may not be reflected in an observable market price. A market approach
allows for comparison to actual market transactions and multiples. It can be
somewhat more limited in its application because the population of potential
comparables (or pure plays) is often limited to publicly-traded companies where
the characteristics of the comparative business and ours can be significantly
different, market data is usually not available for divisions within larger
conglomerates or non-public subsidiaries that could otherwise qualify as
comparable, and the specific circumstances surrounding a market transaction
(e.g., synergies between the parties, terms and conditions of the transaction,
etc.) may be different or irrelevant with respect to our business. It can also
be difficult under the current market conditions to identify orderly
transactions between market participants in similar financial services
businesses. We assess the valuation methodology based upon the relevance and
availability of data at the time of performing the valuation and weight the
methodologies appropriately. 

(68) 

Given
the significant decline in our stock price in the first quarter of 2009 and
market conditions in the financial services industry at that time, we conducted
an additional impairment analysis of the Capital Finance reporting units during
the first quarter of 2009 using data as of January 1, 2009. As a result of these
tests, no goodwill impairment was recognized. 

We
performed our annual impairment test for goodwill at all of our reporting units
in the third quarter using data as of July 1, 2009. In performing the
valuations, we used cash flows, which reflected management s forecasts and
discount rates which reflect the risks associated with the current market. Based
on the results of our testing, the fair values at each of the GE Industrial
reporting units and the CLL, Consumer, Energy Financial Services and GECAS
reporting units exceeded their book values; therefore, the second step of the
impairment test (in which fair value of each of the reporting unit s assets and
liabilities is measured) was not required to be performed and no goodwill
impairment was recognized. Due to the volatility and uncertainties in the
current commercial real estate environment, we used a range of valuations to
determine the fair value for our Real Estate reporting unit. While the Real
Estate reporting unit s book value was within the range of its fair value, we
further substantiated our Real Estate goodwill balance by performing the second
step analysis described above. As a result of our tests for Real Estate, no
goodwill impairment was recognized. Our Real Estate reporting unit had a
goodwill balance of $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009. 

Estimating
the fair value of reporting units involves the use of estimates and significant
judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating
results. If current conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably
possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future
periods. 

We
review identified intangible assets with defined useful lives and subject to
amortization for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether an
impairment loss occurred requires comparing the carrying amount to the sum of
undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We test
intangible assets with indefinite lives annually for impairment using a fair
value method such as discounted cash flows. For our insurance activities
remaining in continuing operations, we periodically test for impairment our
deferred acquisition costs and present value of future profits. 

Further
information is provided in the Financial Resources and Liquidity   Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets section of this Item and in Notes 1 and 8 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Pension assumptions  are
significant inputs to the actuarial models that measure pension benefit
obligations and related effects on operations. Two assumptions   discount rate
and expected return on assets   are important elements of plan expense and
asset/liability measurement. We evaluate these critical assumptions at least
annually on a plan and country-specific basis. We periodically evaluate other
assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age, mortality and
turnover, and update them to reflect our experience and expectations for the
future. Actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial
assumptions because of economic and other factors. 

Accumulated
and projected benefit obligations are measured as the present value of future
cash payments. We discount those cash payments using the weighted average of
market-observed yields for high quality fixed income securities with maturities
that correspond to the payment of benefits. Lower discount rates increase
present values and subsequent-year pension expense; higher discount rates
decrease present values and subsequent-year pension expense. 

Our
discount rates for principal pension plans at December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007 were 5.78%, 6.11% and 6.34%, respectively, reflecting market interest
rates. 

(69) 

To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we
consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and
expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In developing future
return expectations for our principal benefit plans  assets, we evaluate general
market trends as well as key elements of asset class returns such as expected
earnings growth, yields and spreads across a number of potential scenarios.
Assets in our principal pension plans earned 10.0% in 2009, and had average
annual earnings of  3.1%, 8.5% and 10.0% per year in the 10-, 15- and
25-year periods ended December 31, 2009, respectively. Based on our analysis of
future expectations of asset performance, past return results, and our current
and expected asset allocations, we have assumed an 8.5% long-term expected
return on those assets. 

Sensitivity
to changes in key assumptions for our principal pension plans
follows. 

Discount
      rate   A 25 basis point increase in discount rate would decrease pension
      cost in the following year by $0.2 billion and would decrease the pension
      benefit obligation at year-end by about $1.3
  billion. 

Expected
      return on assets   A 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on
      assets would increase pension cost in the following year by $0.3
      billion. 

Further
information on our pension plans is provided in the Operations   Overview
section of this Item and in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Income Taxes . Our annual tax
rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities
available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are
complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective
governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining
our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating
uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as
new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected
by the tax rate on our global operations. In addition to local country tax laws
and regulations, this rate depends on the extent earnings are indefinitely
reinvested outside the United States. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by
management s judgment about and intentions concerning the future operations of
the company. At December 31, 2009, $84 billion of earnings have been
indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Most of these earnings have
been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations and we do not intend to
repatriate these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Deferred income tax assets
represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in
future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the
financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of
these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future
expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable
temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning
strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. We use our
historical experience and our short and long-range business forecasts to provide
insight. Further, our global and diversified business portfolio gives us the
opportunity to employ various prudent and feasible tax planning strategies to
facilitate the recoverability of future deductions. Amounts recorded for
deferred tax assets related to non-U.S. net operating losses, net of valuation
allowances, were $3.6 billion and $3.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively, including $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, reported in assets of discontinued operations, primarily
related to our loss on the sale of GE Money Japan. Such year-end 2009 amounts
are expected to be fully recoverable within the applicable statutory expiration
periods. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a
deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is
established. 

Further
information on income taxes is provided in the Operations   Overview section of
this Item and in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

(70) 

Derivatives and Hedging.  We
use derivatives to manage a variety of risks, including risks related to
interest rates, foreign exchange and commodity prices. Accounting for
derivatives as hedges requires that, at inception and over the term of the
arrangement, the hedged item and related derivative meet the requirements for
hedge accounting. The rules and interpretations related to derivatives
accounting are complex. Failure to apply this complex guidance correctly will
result in all changes in the fair value of the derivative being reported in
earnings, without regard to the offsetting changes in the fair value of the
hedged item. 

In
evaluating whether a particular relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, we
test effectiveness at inception and each reporting period thereafter by
determining whether changes in the fair value of the derivative offset, within a
specified range, changes in the fair value of the hedged item. If fair value
changes fail this test, we discontinue applying hedge accounting to that
relationship prospectively. Fair values of both the derivative instrument and
the hedged item are calculated using internal valuation models incorporating
market-based assumptions, subject to third-party confirmation. 

At
December 31, 2009, derivative assets and liabilities were $8.0 billion and
$3.7 billion, respectively. Further information about our use of derivatives is
provided in Notes 1, 9, 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Fair Value Measurements. 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value every reporting period include
investments in debt and equity securities and derivatives. Assets that are not
measured at fair value every reporting period but that are subject to fair value
measurements in certain circumstances include loans and long-lived assets that
have been reduced to fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that
have been reduced based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, cost and
equity method investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair
value when they are impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in
formerly consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in control that results in
deconsolidation of a subsidiary, if we sell a controlling interest and retain a
noncontrolling stake in the entity. Assets that are written down to fair value
when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently adjusted to fair
value unless further impairment occurs. 

A fair
value measurement is determined as the price we would receive to sell an asset
or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date. In the absence of active markets for the
identical assets or liabilities, such measurements involve developing
assumptions based on market observable data and, in the absence of such data,
internal information that is consistent with what market participants would use
in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date. The
determination of fair value often involves significant judgments about
assumptions such as determining an appropriate discount rate that factors in
both risk and liquidity premiums, identifying the similarities and differences
in market transactions, weighting those differences accordingly and then making
the appropriate adjustments to those market transactions to reflect the risks
specific to our asset being valued. Further information on fair value
measurements is provided in Notes 1, 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of
this Form 10-K Report. 

Other loss contingencies  are
recorded as liabilities when it is probable that a liability has been incurred
and the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. Disclosure is required when
there is a reasonable possibility that the ultimate loss will materially exceed
the recorded provision. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long time
periods. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts that
often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as
regulators. 

Further
information is provided in Notes 13 and 24 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of
this Form 10-K Report. 

(71) 

Other
Information 

New
Accounting Standards 

In 2009,
the FASB issued ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17, which amended ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing , and
ASC 810,  Consolidation ,
respectively, and are effective for us on January 1, 2010. ASU 2009-16 will
eliminate the QSPE concept, and ASU 2009-17 will require that all such entities
be evaluated for consolidation as VIEs, which will result in our consolidating
substantially all of our former QSPEs. 

Among
other changes, the amendments to ASC 810 replace the existing quantitative
approach for identifying the party that should consolidate a VIE, which was
based on exposure to a majority of the risks and rewards, with a qualitative
approach, based on determination of which party has the power to direct the most
economically significant activities of the entity. The revised guidance will
sometimes change the composition of entities that meet the definition of a VIE
and the determination about which party should consolidate a VIE, as well as
requiring the latter to be evaluated continuously. 

We have
evaluated all entities that fall within the scope of the amended ASC 810 to
determine whether we will be required to consolidate or deconsolidate these
entities on January 1, 2010. In addition to the former QSPEs described above, we
will consolidate assets of VIEs related to direct investments in entities that
hold loans and fixed income securities, a media joint venture and a small number
of companies to which we have extended loans in the ordinary course of business
and have subsequently been subject to a troubled debt
restructuring. 

Upon
adoption of the amendments on January 1, 2010, we will consolidate the assets
and liabilities of these entities at the amount they would have been reported in
our financial statements had we always consolidated them. We will also
deconsolidate certain entities where we do not meet the definition of the
primary beneficiary under the revised guidance, the effect of which will be
insignificant. The incremental effect of consolidation on total assets and
liabilities, net of our investment in these entities, will be an increase of
approximately $32 billion and $34 billion, respectively. There also will be a
net reduction of equity of approximately $2 billion, principally related to the
reversal of previously recognized securitization gains as a cumulative effect
adjustment to retained earnings, which will be earned back over the life of the
assets. 

The
assets of QSPEs that we will be required to consolidate will be approximately
$29 billion, net of our existing retained interests of approximately $9 billion,
and liabilities will be $31 billion at January 1, 2010. Significant assets of
the QSPEs will include net financing receivables and trade receivables of
approximately $39 billion and investment securities of approximately $1 billion.
Significant liabilities will include short-term and long-term borrowings of $19
billion each. The assets and liabilities of other VIEs we will consolidate will
be approximately $2 billion each. 

The
amended guidance on ASC 860 also modifies existing derecognition criteria in a
manner that will significantly narrow the types of transactions that will
qualify as sales. The revised criteria will apply prospectively to transfers of
financial assets occurring after December 31, 2009. 

On
September 23, 2009, the FASB issued amendments to existing standards for revenue
arrangements with multiple components. The amendments generally require the
allocation of consideration to separate components based on the relative selling
price of each component in a revenue arrangement. The amendments also require
certain software-enabled products to be accounted for under the general
accounting standards for multiple component arrangements as opposed to
accounting standards specifically applicable to software arrangements. The
amendments are effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or
materially modified after January 1, 2011. The financial statement impact of
adopting these amendments is expected to be insignificant to our financial
statements. 

(72) 

Supplemental
Information 

Financial
Measures that Supplement Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 

We
sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but
not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are
considered  non-GAAP financial measures  under U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred, in various sections of this
Annual Report, to: 

Industrial
      earnings, excluding NBCU 

Cash
      generated by our Industrial
businesses 

Average
      GE shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued
      operations 

Ratio
      of debt to equity at GE Capital, net of cash and equivalents and with
      classification of hybrid debt as
equity 

Capital
      Finance ending net investment (ENI), excluding the effects of currency
      exchange rates, at December 31, 2009 and
2008 

GE
      pre-tax earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECS earnings from
      continuing operations, the corresponding effective tax rates and the
      reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to those effective tax
      rates for the three years ended December 31,
  2009 

The
reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to
their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow. 

We have
provided the increase in 2009 segment profit excluding the earnings of our
financial services segment, Capital Finance, and our media business, NBC
Universal. We believe that this is a useful comparison because it provides
investors with information on the results of our industrial businesses without
the NBC Universal business, which is classified as a business held for sale at
December 31, 2009. We believe that this measure, considered along with the
corresponding GAAP measure, provides management and investors with additional
information for comparison to other industrial businesses. 

Cash
      Generated by our Industrial Businesses 

(In
      millions) 

2009  

Cash
      from GE's operating activities as reported 

$ 

16,581  

Less
      dividends from GECS 

Cash
      from GE's operating activities, excluding dividends from 

GECS
      (Industrial CFOA) 

$ 

16,581  

(73) 

We refer
to cash generated by our industrial businesses as "Industrial CFOA," which we
define as GE s cash from operating activities less the amount of dividends
received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany
transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for
trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment
(including automobiles) leased between GE and GECS; information technology (IT)
and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that
are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease
to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate
overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GE s
operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends, since these dividends
are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses
and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial
services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be
comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and
financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the
provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our
financial services business and the separate presentation in our financial
statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our
measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful
measure to compare the capacity of our industrial operations to generate
operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial
businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the
reported GAAP CFOA measure. 

(a) 

Used
      for computing return on average GE shareowners  equity and return on
      average total capital invested shown in the Selected Financial Data
      section in Part II, Item 6.  Selected Financial
  Data.  

(b) 

On
      an annual basis, calculated using a five-point
  average. 

Our ROTC
calculation excludes earnings (losses) of discontinued operations from the
numerator because U.S. GAAP requires us to display those earnings (losses) in
the Statement of Earnings. We exclude the cumulative effect of earnings (losses)
of discontinued operations from the denominator in our ROTC calculation (1) for
each of the periods for which related discontinued operations were presented,
and (2) for our average net investment in discontinued operations since July 1,
2005. Had we disposed of these operations before July 1, 2005, we would have
applied the proceeds to reduce parent-supported debt at GE Capital. However,
since parent-supported debt at GE Capital was retired by June 30, 2005, we have
assumed that we would have distributed the proceeds after that time to
shareowners through share repurchases, thus reducing average GE shareowners 
equity. Our calculation of average GE shareowners  equity may not be directly
comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We believe
that it is a clearer way to measure the ongoing trend in return on total capital
for the continuing operations of our businesses given the extent that
discontinued operations have affected our reported results. We believe that this
results in a more relevant measure for management and investors to evaluate
performance of our continuing operations, on a consistent basis, and to evaluate
and compare the performance of our continuing operations with the ongoing
operations of other businesses and companies. 

Definitions
indicating how the above-named ratios are calculated using average GE
shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, can be found
in the Glossary. 

(74) 

We have
provided the GE Capital ratio of debt to equity on a basis that reflects the use
of cash and equivalents to reduce debt, and with long-term debt due in 2066 and
2067 classified as equity. We believe that this is a useful comparison to a
GAAP-based ratio of debt to equity because cash balances may be used to reduce
debt and because this long-term debt has equity-like characteristics. The
usefulness of this supplemental measure may be limited, however, as the total
amount of cash and equivalents at any point in time may be different than the
amount that could practically be applied to reduce outstanding debt, and it may
not be advantageous or practical to replace certain long-term debt with equity.
In the first quarter of 2009, GE made a $9.5 billion payment to GECS (of which
$8.8 billion was further contributed to GE Capital through capital contribution
and share issuance). Despite these potential limitations, we believe that this
measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure, provides
investors with additional information that may be more comparable to other
financial institutions and businesses. 

We use
ENI to measure the size of our financial services business. We believe that this
measure is a better indicator of the capital (debt or equity) required to fund a
business as it adjusts for non-interest bearing current liabilities generated in
the normal course of business that do not require a capital outlay. We also
believe that by excluding the impact of GECS discontinued operations, GECS
headquarters items and the effects of currency exchange movements during the
year, we provide a more meaningful measure for our Capital Finance
segment. 

(75) 

We
believe that the GE effective tax rate is best analyzed in relation to GE
earnings before income taxes excluding the GECS net earnings from continuing
operations, as GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings.
Management believes that in addition to the Consolidated and GECS tax rates
shown in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, this
supplemental measure provides investors with useful information as it presents
the GE effective tax rate that can be used in comparing the GE results to other
non-financial services businesses. 

Delinquency
Rates on Certain Financing Receivables 

Delinquency
rates on managed equipment financing loans and leases and managed consumer
financing receivables follow. 

(a) 

Not
      applicable. 

Delinquency
rates on on-book and off-book equipment financing loans and leases increased
from December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, to December 31, 2009, as a result
of continuing weakness in the global economic and credit environment. In
addition, delinquency rates on on-book equipment financing loans and leases
increased nine basis points from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, as a
result of the inclusion of the CitiCapital acquisition. 

(76) 

The
increase in on-book delinquencies for consumer financing receivables in the U.S.
from December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, to December 31, 2009, primarily
reflects the continued rise in delinquencies across the U.S. credit card
receivables platforms. The increase in on-book delinquencies for consumer
financing receivables outside of the U.S. from December 31, 2008 and December
31, 2007, to December 31, 2009, reflects the effects of the declining U.K.
housing market. The increase in off-book delinquencies for consumer financing
receivables in the U.S. from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008, primarily
reflects the rise in delinquencies across the U.S. credit card receivables
platform. The decrease in off-book delinquencies for consumer financing
receivables in the U.S. from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, reflected
the replacement of certain lower-credit quality receivables from a
securitization trust in 2009. 

We
believe that delinquency rates on managed financing receivables provide a useful
perspective of our portfolio quality and are key indicators of financial
performance. We use this non-GAAP financial measure because it provides
information that enables management and investors to understand the underlying
operational performance and trends of certain financing receivables and
facilitates a comparison with the performance of our competitors. The same
underwriting standards and ongoing risk monitoring are used for both on-book and
off-book portfolios as the customer s credit performance will affect both loans
retained on the Statement of Financial Position and securitized loans. We
believe that managed basis information is useful to management and investors,
enabling them to understand both the credit risks associated with the loans
reported on the Statement of Financial Position and our retained interests in
securitized loans. 

(77) 

Glossary 

Backlog  Unfilled customer
orders for products and product services (12 months for product
services). 

Borrowing  Financial liability
(short or long-term) that obligates us to repay cash or another financial asset
to another entity. 

Borrowings as a percentage of total
capital invested  For GE, the sum of borrowings and mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock, divided by the sum of borrowings, mandatorily redeemable
preferred stock, noncontrolling interests and total shareowners 
equity. 

Cash equivalents  Highly liquid
debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less, such as
commercial paper. Typically included with cash for reporting purposes, unless
designated as available-for-sale and included with investment
securities. 

Cash flow hedges  Qualifying
derivative instruments that we use to protect ourselves against exposure to
variability in future cash flows. The exposure may be associated with an
existing asset or liability, or with a forecasted transaction. See
 Hedge.  

Commercial paper  Unsecured,
unregistered promise to repay borrowed funds in a specified period ranging from
overnight to 270 days. 

Derivative instrument  A
financial instrument or contract with another party (counterparty) that is
designed to meet any of a variety of risk management objectives, including those
related to fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity
prices. Options, forwards and swaps are the most common derivative instruments
we employ. See  Hedge.  

Discontinued operations 
Certain businesses we have sold or committed to sell within the next year and
therefore will no longer be part of our ongoing operations. The net earnings,
assets and liabilities, and cash flows of such businesses are separately
classified on our Statement of Earnings, Statement of Financial Position and
Statement of Cash Flows, respectively, for all periods presented. 

Effective tax rate  Provision
for income taxes as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before
income taxes and accounting changes. Does not represent cash paid for income
taxes in the current accounting period. Also referred to as  actual tax rate  or
 tax rate.  

Ending Net Investment (ENI)  is
the total capital we have invested in the financial services business. It is the
sum of short-term borrowings, long-term borrowings and equity (excluding
noncontrolling interests) adjusted for unrealized gains and losses on investment
securities and hedging instruments. Alternatively, it is the amount of assets of
continuing operations less the amount of non-interest bearing
liabilities. 

Equipment leased to others 
Rental equipment we own that is available to rent and is stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation. 

Fair value hedge  Qualifying
derivative instruments that we use to reduce the risk of changes in the fair
value of assets, liabilities or certain types of firm commitments. Changes in
the fair values of derivative instruments that are designated and effective as
fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, but are offset by corresponding
changes in the fair values of the hedged items. See  Hedge.  

Financing receivables 
Investment in contractual loans and leases due from customers (not investment
securities). 

(78) 

Forward contract  Fixed price
contract for purchase or sale of a specified quantity of a commodity, security,
currency or other financial instrument with delivery and settlement at a
specified future date. Commonly used as a hedging tool. See
 Hedge.  

Goodwill  The premium paid for
acquisition of a business. Calculated as the purchase price less the fair value
of net assets acquired (net assets are identified tangible and intangible
assets, less liabilities assumed). 

Guaranteed investment contracts
(GICs)  Deposit-type products that guarantee a minimum rate of return,
which may be fixed or floating. 

Hedge  A technique designed to
eliminate risk. Often refers to the use of derivative financial instruments to
offset changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices,
although many business positions are  naturally hedged    for example, funding a
U.S. fixed-rate investment with U.S. fixed-rate borrowings is a natural interest
rate hedge. 

Intangible asset  A
non-financial asset lacking physical substance, such as goodwill, patents,
licenses, trademarks and customer relationships. 

Interest rate swap  Agreement
under which two counterparties agree to exchange one type of interest rate cash
flow for another. In a typical arrangement, one party periodically will pay a
fixed amount of interest, in exchange for which that party will receive variable
payments computed using a published index. See  Hedge.  

Investment securities 
Generally, an instrument that provides an ownership position in a corporation (a
stock), a creditor relationship with a corporation or governmental body (a
bond), rights to contractual cash flows backed by pools of financial assets or
rights to ownership such as those represented by options, subscription rights
and subscription warrants. 

Managed receivables  Total
receivable amounts on which we continue to perform billing and collection
activities, including receivables that have been sold with and without credit
recourse and are no longer reported on our Statement of Financial
Position. 

Match funding  A risk control
policy that provides funding for a particular financial asset having the same
currency, maturity and interest rate characteristics as that asset. Match
funding is executed directly, by issuing debt, or synthetically, through a
combination of debt and derivative financial instruments. For example, when we
lend at a fixed interest rate in the U.S., we can borrow those U.S. dollars
either at a fixed rate of interest or at a floating rate executed concurrently
with a pay-fixed interest rate swap. See  Hedge.  

Monetization  Sale of financial
assets to a third party for cash. For example, we sell certain loans, credit
card receivables and trade receivables to third-party financial buyers,
typically providing at least some credit protection and often agreeing to
provide collection and processing services for a fee. Monetization normally
results in gains on interest-bearing assets and losses on non-interest bearing
assets. See  Securitization  and  Variable Interest Entity.  

Noncontrolling interest 
Portion of shareowner's equity in a subsidiary that is not attributable to GE.
In prior financial statements, this was labeled minority interest and was
presented outside of shareowners' equity. 

Operating profit  GE earnings
from continuing operations before interest and other financial charges, income
taxes and effects of accounting changes. 

Option  The right, not the
obligation, to execute a transaction at a designated price, generally involving
equity interests, interest rates, currencies or commodities. See
 Hedge.  

(79) 

Product services  For purposes
of the financial statement display of sales and costs of sales in our Statement
of Earnings,  goods  is required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations to include all sales of tangible products, and  services  must
include all other sales, including broadcasting and other services activities.
In our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Operations we refer to sales
under product service agreements and sales of both goods (such as spare parts
and equipment upgrades) and related services (such as monitoring, maintenance
and repairs) as sales of  product services,  which is an important part of our
operations. 

Product services agreements 
Contractual commitments, with multiple-year terms, to provide specified services
for products in our Energy Infrastructure and Technology Infrastructure
installed base   for example, monitoring, maintenance, service and spare parts
for a gas turbine/generator set installed in a customer s power
plant. 

Productivity  The rate of
increased output for a given level of input, with both output and input measured
in constant currency. 

Progress collections  Payments
received from customers as deposits before the associated work is performed or
product is delivered. 

Qualifying SPEs (QSPEs)  These
entities are a specific type of Variable Interest Entity defined in ASC 860,
 Transfers and
Servicing.  The activities of QSPEs are significantly limited and entirely
specified in the legal documents that established the entity. There also are
significant limitations on the types of assets and derivative instruments they
may hold and the types and extent of activities and decision-making they may
engage in. 

Retained interest  A portion of
a transferred financial asset retained by the transferor that provides rights to
receive portions of the cash inflows from that asset. 

Return on average GE shareowners 
equity  Earnings from continuing operations before accounting changes
divided by average GE shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued
operations (on an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average). Average
GE shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, as of the
end of each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, is
described in the Supplemental Information section. 

Return on average total capital
invested  For GE, earnings from continuing operations before accounting
changes plus the sum of after-tax interest and other financial charges and
noncontrolling interests, divided by the sum of the averages of total
shareowners  equity (excluding effects of discontinued operations), borrowings,
mandatorily redeemable preferred stock and noncontrolling interests (on an
annual basis, calculated using a five-point average). Average total shareowners 
equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations as of the end of each of
the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2009, is described in the
Supplemental Information section. 

Securitization  A process
whereby loans or other receivables are packaged, underwritten and sold to
investors. In a typical transaction, assets are sold to a special purpose
entity, which purchases the assets with cash raised through issuance of
beneficial interests (usually debt instruments) to third-party investors.
Whether or not credit risk associated with the securitized assets is retained by
the seller depends on the structure of the securitization. See  Monetization 
and  Variable interest entity.  

Subprime  For purposes of
Consumer related discussion, subprime includes consumer finance products like
mortgage, auto, cards, sales finance and personal loans to U.S. and global
borrowers whose credit score implies a higher probability of default based upon
GE Capital's proprietary scoring models and definitions, which add various
qualitative and quantitative factors to a base credit score such as a FICO score
or global bureau score. Although, FICO and global bureau credit scores are a
widely accepted rating of individual consumer creditworthiness, the internally
modeled scores are more reflective of the behavior and default risks in the
portfolio compared to stand-alone generic bureau scores. 

(80) 

Turnover  Broadly based on the
number of times that working capital is replaced during a year. Current
receivables turnover is total sales divided by the five-point average balance of
GE current receivables. Inventory turnover is total sales divided by a
five-point average balance of inventories. See  Working capital.  

Unpaid claims and claims adjustment
expenses  Claims reserves for events that have occurred, including both
reported and incurred-but-not-reported (IBNR) reserves, and the expenses of
settling such claims. 

Variable interest entity 
Entity defined by ASC 810,  Consolidation , and that must
be consolidated by its primary beneficiary. A variable interest entity has one
or both of the following characteristics: (1) its equity at risk is not
sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional
subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) as a group, the equity
investors lack one or more of the following characteristics: (a) direct or
indirect ability to make decisions, (b) obligation to absorb expected losses, or
(c) right to receive expected residual returns. 

Working capital  Represents GE
current receivables and inventories, less GE accounts payable and progress
collections. 

Item
7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
Risk.  

Information
about our global risk management can be found in the Operations   Global Risk
Management and Financial Resources and Liquidity   Exchange Rate and Interest
Rate Risks sections in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Item
8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting for the Company. With our participation, an evaluation of
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting was conducted
as of December 31, 2009, based on the framework and criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. 

Based on
this evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. 

Our
independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our
internal control over financial reporting. Their report follows. 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Chairman
      of the Board and 

                Chief
      Executive Officer 

                February
      19, 2010 

Vice
      Chairman and 

                Chief
      Financial Officer 

(81) 

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

To
Shareowners and Board of Directors 

of
General Electric Company: 

We have
audited the accompanying statement of financial position of General Electric
Company and consolidated affiliates ( GE ) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and
the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners  equity and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. We
also have audited GE s internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control- Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission ( COSO ). GE management is responsible for these
consolidated financial state ments, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on GE s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reason able assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluat ing the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reason able assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In our
opinion, the consolidated financial statements appearing on pages 84, 86, 87,
89, 91-167 and the Summary of Operating Segments table on page 35 present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of GE as of December
31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, GE
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated
Framework  issued by COSO. 

(82) 

As
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, GE, in 2009,
changed its method of accounting for impairment of debt securities, business
combinations and noncontrolling interests; in 2008, changed its method of
accounting for fair value measurements and adopted the fair value option for
certain financial assets and financial liabilities; and, in 2007, changed its
methods of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes and for a change or
projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to income taxes generated
by leveraged lease transactions. 

Our
audits of GE s consolidated financial statements were made for the purpose of
forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
The accompanying consolidating infor mation appearing on pages 85, 88 and 90
is presented for purposes of additional analysis of the consolidated financial
statements rather than to present the financial position, results of operations
and cash flows of the individual entities. The consolidating information has
been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the
con solidated financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in
all material respects in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole. 

/s/ KPMG
LLP  

KPMG LLP

Stamford,
Connecticut 

February
19, 2010 

(83) 

See Note 3 for
other-than-temporary impairment amounts.    

See
accompanying notes. 

(84) 

(a)  

Represents
      the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric
      Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on
      a one-line basis. 

In
      the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation
      as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS"
      means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates
      and associated companies. Separate information is shown for "GE" and
      "GECS. " Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
      "General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates" columns on the
      prior page. 

(85) 

On January 1, 2009, we adopted an
amendment to ASC 810,  Consolidation , that requires
certain changes to the presentation of our financial statements. This amendment
requires us to classify noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as
"minority interest") as part of shareowners' equity.  

(a) 

We
      adopted amendments to ASC 320,  Investments - Debt and Equity
      Securities , and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to increase
      retained earnings as of April 1, 2009. See Note
  15. 

(b) 

See
      Note 15 for an explanation of the change in noncontrolling interests for
      2009. 

See
accompanying notes. 

(86) 

See
      accompanying notes. 

(87) 

(a) 

Represents
      the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric
      Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on
      a one-line basis. 

In
      the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation
      as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS"
      means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates
      and associated companies. Separate information is shown for  GE  and
       GECS.  Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
       General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns on the
      prior page. 

(88) 

See
accompanying notes. 

(89) 

(a) 

Represents
      the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric
      Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on
      a one-line basis. 

In
      the consolidating data on this page, "GE" means the basis of consolidation
      as described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements; "GECS"
      means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates
      and associated companies. Separate information is shown for  GE  and
       GECS.  Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the
       General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns on the
      prior page and are discussed in Note
26. 

(90) 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

NOTE
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 

Accounting
Principles 

Our
financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP). 

Consolidation 

Our
financial statements consolidate all of our affiliates   entities that we
control, most often because we hold a majority voting interest. Associated
companies are entities that we do not control but over which we have significant
influence, most often because we hold a voting interest of 20% to 50%. Results
of associated companies are presented on a one-line basis. Investments in and
advances to associated companies are presented on a one-line basis in the
caption  All other assets  in our Statement of Financial Position, net of
allowance for losses that represents our best estimate of probable losses
inherent in such assets. 

Financial
Statement Presentation 

We have
reclassified certain prior-year amounts to conform to the current-year s
presentation. 

Financial
data and related measurements are presented in the following
categories: 

GE    This represents the
adding together of all affiliates other than General Electric Capital Services,
Inc. (GECS), whose operations are presented on a one-line basis. 

GECS    This affiliate owns all
of the common stock of General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital). GE
Capital and its respective affiliates are consolidated in the accompanying GECS
columns and constitute the majority of its business. 

Consolidated    This represents
the adding together of GE and GECS, giving effect to the elimination of
transactions between GE and GECS. 

Operating Segments    These
comprise our five businesses, focused on the broad markets they serve: Energy
Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal (NBCU), Capital Finance
and Consumer   Industrial. Prior-period information has been reclassified to
be consistent with the current organization. 

Unless
otherwise indicated, information in these notes to consolidated financial
statements relates to continuing operations. Certain of our operations have been
presented as discontinued. See Note 2. 

The
effects of translating to U.S. dollars the financial statements of non-U.S.
affiliates whose functional currency is the local currency are included in
shareowners  equity. Asset and liability accounts are translated at year-end
exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated at average rates for
the respective periods. 

Preparing
financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates
based on assumptions about current, and for some estimates future, economic and
market conditions (for example, unemployment, market liquidity, the real estate
market, etc.), which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in our
financial statements. Although our current estimates contemplate current
conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, as appropriate, it is
reasonably possible that in 2010 actual conditions could be worse than
anticipated in those estimates, which could materially affect our results of
operations and financial position. Among other effects, such changes could
result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill, intangibles and
long-lived assets, incremental losses on financing receivables, establishment of
valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax
liabilities. 

(91) 

Sales of Goods and Services  

We
record all sales of goods and services only when a firm sales agreement is in
place, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered and collectibility
of the fixed or determinable sales price is reasonably assured. 

Arrangements
for the sale of goods and services sometimes include multiple components. Most
of our multiple component arrangements involve the sale of goods and services in
the Technology Infrastructure segment. Our arrangements with multiple components
usually involve future service deliverables such as installation, training or
the future delivery of ancillary equipment. In such agreements, the amount
assigned to each component is based on the total price and the undelivered
component s objectively determined fair value, determined from sources such as
the separate selling price for that or a similar component or from competitor
prices for similar components. If fair value of an undelivered component cannot
be satisfactorily determined, we defer revenue until all multiple components are
delivered. 

Except
for goods sold under long-term agreements, we recognize sales of goods under the
provisions of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting
Bulletin (SAB) 104,  Revenue
Recognition . We often sell consumer products, home videos and computer
hardware and software products with a right of return. We use our accumulated
experience to estimate and provide for such returns when we record the sale. In
situations where arrangements include customer acceptance provisions based on
seller or customer-specified objective criteria, we recognize revenue when
formal acceptance occurs or we have reliably demonstrated that all specified
acceptance criteria have been met. In arrangements where we provide goods for
trial and evaluation purposes, we only recognize revenue after customer
acceptance occurs. Unless otherwise noted, we do not provide for anticipated
losses before we record sales. 

Certain
of our sales of goods and services involve inconsequential or perfunctory
performance obligations. These obligations can include non-essential
installation or training, and in some instances provision of product manuals and
limited technical product support. When the only remaining undelivered
performance obligation under an arrangement is inconsequential or perfunctory,
we recognize revenue on the total contract and provide for the cost of the
unperformed obligation. 

We
recognize revenue on agreements for sales of goods and services under power
generation unit and uprate contracts; nuclear fuel assemblies; larger oil
drilling equipment projects; aeroderivative unit contracts; military development
contracts; and long-term construction projects, using long-term construction and
production contract accounting. We estimate total long-term contract revenue net
of price concessions as well as total contract costs. For goods sold under power
generation unit and uprate contracts, nuclear fuel assemblies, aeroderivative
unit contracts and military development contracts, we recognize sales as we
complete major contract-specified deliverables, most often when customers
receive title to the goods or accept the services as performed. For larger oil
drilling equipment projects and long-term construction projects, we recognize
sales based on our progress towards contract completion measured by actual costs
incurred in relation to our estimate of total expected costs. We measure
long-term contract revenues by applying our contract-specific estimated margin
rates to incurred costs. We routinely update our estimates of future costs for
agreements in process and report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in
current operations. We provide for any loss that we expect to incur on these
agreements when that loss is probable. 

(92) 

We
recognize revenue upon delivery for sales of aircraft engines, military
propulsion equipment and related spare parts not sold under long-term product
services agreements. Delivery of commercial engines, non-U.S. military equipment
and all related spare parts occurs on shipment; delivery of military propulsion
equipment sold to the U.S. Government or agencies thereof occurs upon receipt of
a Material Inspection and Receiving Report, DD Form 250 or Memorandum of
Shipment. Commercial aircraft engines are complex aerospace equipment
manufactured to customer order under a variety of sometimes-complex, long-term
agreements. We measure sales of commercial aircraft engines by applying our
contract-specific estimated margin rates to incurred costs. We routinely update
our estimates of future costs for commercial aircraft engine agreements in
process and report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in current
operations. We measure revenue for military propulsion equipment and spare parts
not subject to long-term product services agreements based on the specific
contract on a specifically-measured output basis. We provide for any loss that
we expect to incur on these agreements when that loss is probable; consistent
with industry practice, for commercial aircraft engines, we make such provision
only if such losses are not recoverable from future highly probable sales of
spare parts for those engines. 

We sell
product services under long-term product maintenance or extended warranty
agreements in our Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure segments,
principally in Aviation, Energy and Transportation, where costs of performing
services are incurred on other than a straight-line basis. We also sell product
services in Healthcare, where such costs generally are expected to be on a
straight-line basis. For the Aviation, Energy and Transportation agreements, we
recognize related sales based on the extent of our progress towards completion
measured by actual costs incurred in relation to total expected costs. We
routinely update our estimates of future costs for agreements in process and
report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in current operations. For the
Healthcare agreements, we recognize revenues on a straight-line basis and
expense related costs as incurred. We provide for any loss that we expect to
incur on any of these agreements when that loss is probable. 

NBC
Universal records broadcast and cable television and Internet advertising sales
when advertisements are aired, net of provision for any viewer shortfalls (make
goods). We record sales from theatrical distribution of films as the films are
exhibited; sales of home videos, net of a return provision, when the videos are
delivered to and available for sale by retailers; fees from cable/satellite
operators when services are provided; and licensing of film and television
programming when we make the material available for airing. 

GECS Revenues from Services (Earned Income)  

We use
the interest method to recognize income on all loans. Interest on loans includes
origination, commitment and other non-refundable fees related to funding
(recorded in earned income on the interest method). We stop accruing interest at
the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or
the account becomes 90 days past due. We recognize interest income on nonearning
loans either as cash is collected or on a cost-recovery basis as conditions
warrant. We resume accruing interest on nonearning, non-restructured commercial
loans only when (a) payments are brought current according to the loan s
original terms and (b) future payments are reasonably assured. When we agree to
restructured terms with the borrower, we resume accruing interest only when
reasonably assured that we will recover full contractual payments, and such
loans pass underwriting reviews equivalent to those applied to new loans. We
resume accruing interest on nonearning consumer loans when the customer s
account is less than 90 days past due. 

We
recognize financing lease income on the interest method to produce a level yield
on funds not yet recovered. Estimated unguaranteed residual values are based
upon management's best estimates of the value of the leased asset at the end of
the lease term. We use various sources of data in determining this estimate,
including information obtained from third parties, which is adjusted for the
attributes of the specific asset under lease. Guarantees of residual values by
unrelated third parties are considered part of minimum lease payments.
Significant assumptions we use in estimating residual values include estimated
net cash flows over the remaining lease term, anticipated results of future
remarketing, and estimated future component part and scrap metal prices,
discounted at an appropriate rate. 

We
recognize operating lease income on a straight-line basis over the terms of
underlying leases. 

(93) 

Fees
include commitment fees related to loans that we do not expect to fund and
line-of-credit fees. We record these fees in earned income on a straight-line
basis over the period to which they relate. We record syndication fees in earned
income at the time related services are performed, unless significant
contingencies exist. 

Depreciation and Amortization  

The cost
of GE manufacturing plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated
economic life. U.S. assets are depreciated using an accelerated method based on
a sum-of-the-years digits formula; non-U.S. assets are generally depreciated on
a straight-line basis. 

The cost
of GECS equipment leased to others on operating leases is depreciated on a
straight-line basis to estimated residual value over the lease term or over the
estimated economic life of the equipment. 

The cost
of GECS acquired real estate investments is depreciated on a straight-line basis
to the estimated salvage value over the expected useful life or the estimated
proceeds upon sale of the investment at the end of the expected holding period
if that approach produces a higher measure of depreciation expense. 

The cost
of individually significant customer relationships is amortized in proportion to
estimated total related sales; cost of other intangible assets is generally
amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset s estimated economic life. We
review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
See Notes 7 and 8. 

NBC Universal Film and Television Costs  

We defer
film and television production costs, including direct costs, production
overhead, development costs and interest. We do not defer costs of exploitation,
which principally comprise costs of film and television program marketing and
distribution. We amortize deferred film and television production costs, as well
as associated participation and residual costs, on an individual production
basis using the ratio of the current period s gross revenues to estimated total
remaining gross revenues from all sources; we state such costs at the lower of
amortized cost or fair value. Estimates of total revenues and costs are based on
anticipated release patterns, public acceptance and historical results for
similar products. We defer the costs of acquired broadcast material, including
rights to material for use on NBC Universal s broadcast and cable/satellite
television networks, at the earlier of acquisition or when the license period
begins and the material is available for use. We amortize acquired broadcast
material and rights when we broadcast the associated programs; we state such
costs at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value. 

Losses on Financing Receivables  

Our
allowance for losses on financing receivables represents our best estimate of
probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Our method of calculating estimated
losses depends on the size, type and risk characteristics of the related
receivables. Write-offs are deducted from the allowance for losses and
subsequent recoveries are added. Impaired financing receivables are written down
to the extent that we judge principal to be uncollectible. 

Our
portfolio consists entirely of homogenous consumer loans and of commercial loans
and leases. The underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use to
provide for losses are continually updated to reflect our view of current
conditions. Changes in such estimates can significantly affect the allowance and
provision for losses. It is possible to experience credit losses that are
different from our current estimates. 

Our
consumer loan portfolio consists of smaller balance, homogenous loans including
card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases and residential
mortgages. We collectively evaluate each portfolio for impairment quarterly. The
allowance for losses on these receivables is established through a process that
estimates the probable losses inherent in the portfolio based upon statistical
analyses of portfolio data. These analyses include migration analysis, in which
historical delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current
aging of the portfolio, together with other analyses that reflect current trends
and conditions. We also consider overall portfolio indicators including
nonearning loans, trends in loan volume and lending terms, credit policies and
other observable environmental factors such as unemployment rates and home price
indices. 

(94) 

We write
off unsecured closed-end installment loans at 120 days contractually past due
and unsecured open-ended revolving loans at 180 days contractually past due. We
write down consumer loans secured by collateral other than residential real
estate when such loans are 120 days past due. Consumer loans secured by
residential real estate (both revolving and closed-end loans) are written down
to the fair value of collateral, less costs to sell, no later than when they
become 360 days past due. Unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy are written off
within 60 days of notification of filing by the bankruptcy court or within
contractual write-off periods, whichever occurs earlier. 

Our
commercial loan and lease portfolio consists of a variety of loans and leases,
including both larger balance, non-homogenous loans and leases and smaller
balance homogenous commercial and equipment loans and leases. Losses on such
loans and leases are recorded when probable and estimable. We routinely evaluate
our entire portfolio for potential specific credit or collection issues that
might indicate an impairment. For larger balance, non-homogenous loans and
leases, this survey first considers the financial status, payment history,
collateral value, industry conditions and guarantor support related to specific
customers. Any delinquencies or bankruptcies are indications of potential
impairment requiring further assessment of collectibility. We routinely receive
financial as well as rating agency reports on our customers, and we elevate for
further attention those customers whose operations we judge to be marginal or
deteriorating. We also elevate customers for further attention when we observe a
decline in collateral values for asset-based loans. While collateral values are
not always available, when we observe such a decline, we evaluate relevant
markets to assess recovery alternatives   for example, for real estate loans,
relevant markets are local; for commercial aircraft loans, relevant markets are
global. We provide allowances based on our evaluation of all available
information, including expected future cash flows, fair value of collateral, net
of expected disposal costs, and the secondary market value of the financing
receivables. After providing for specific incurred losses, we then determine an
allowance for losses that have been incurred in the balance of the portfolio but
cannot yet be identified to a specific loan or lease. This estimate is based on
historical and projected default rates and loss severity, and it is prepared by
each respective line of business. 

The
remainder of our commercial loans and leases are portfolios of smaller balance
homogenous commercial and equipment positions that we evaluate collectively by
portfolio for impairment based upon various statistical analyses considering
historical losses and aging, as well as our view on current market and economic
conditions. 

Experience
is not available for new products; therefore, while we are developing that
experience, we set loss allowances based on our experience with the most closely
analogous products in our portfolio. 

"Impaired"
loans are defined as larger balance or restructured loans for which it is
probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due according to
the original contractual terms of the loan agreement. Troubled debt
restructurings are those loans in which we have granted a concession to a
borrower experiencing financial difficulties where we do not receive adequate
compensation. Such loans are classified as impaired, and are individually
reviewed for specific reserves. 

When we
repossess collateral in satisfaction of a loan, we write down the receivable
against the allowance for losses. Repossessed collateral is included in the
caption  All other assets  in the Statement of Financial Position and carried at
the lower of cost or estimated fair value less costs to sell. 

Partial Sales of Business Interests  

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted amendments to Accounting Standards Codification
(ASC) 810,  Consolidation , which requires
that gains or losses on sales of affiliate shares where we retain control be
recorded in equity. Gains or losses on sales that result in our loss of control
are recorded in earnings along with remeasurement gains or losses on any
investments in the entity that we retained. Prior to January 1, 2009, we
recorded gains or losses on sales of their own shares by affiliates except when
realization of gains was not reasonably assured, in which case we recorded the
results in shareowners  equity. We recorded gains or losses on sales of
interests in commercial and military engine and aeroderivative equipment
programs. 

(95) 

Cash and Equivalents  

Debt
securities and money market instruments with original maturities of three months
or less are included in cash equivalents unless designated as available-for-sale
and classified as investment securities. 

Investment Securities  

We
report investments in debt and marketable equity securities, and certain other
equity securities, at fair value. See Note 21 for further information on fair
value. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale investment securities
are included in shareowners  equity, net of applicable taxes and other
adjustments. We regularly review investment securities for impairment using both
quantitative and qualitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) amended ASC 320,  Investments   Debt and Equity
Securities.  This amendment modified the existing model for recognition
and measurement of impairment for debt securities. The two principal changes to
the impairment model for securities are as follows: 

Recognition
      of an other-than-temporary impairment charge for debt securities is
      required if any of these conditions are met: (1) we do not expect to
      recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security, (2) we intend to
      sell the security or (3) it is more likely than not that we will be
      required to sell the security before we recover its amortized cost
      basis. 

If
      the first condition above is met, but we do not intend to sell and it is
      not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security
      before recovery of its amortized cost basis, we are required to record the
      difference between the security s amortized cost basis and its recoverable
      amount in earnings and the difference between the security s recoverable
      amount and fair value in other comprehensive income. If either the second
      or third criterion is met, then we are required to recognize the entire
      difference between the security s amortized cost basis and its fair value
      in earnings. 

If we do
not intend to sell the security or it is not more likely than not that we will
be required to sell the security before recovery of our amortized cost, we
evaluate other qualitative criteria to determine whether a credit loss exists,
such as the financial health of and specific prospects for the issuer, including
whether the issuer is in compliance with the terms and covenants of the
security. Quantitative criteria include determining whether there has been an
adverse change in expected future cash flows. 

Realized
gains and losses are accounted for on the specific identification method.
Unrealized gains and losses on investment securities classified as trading and
certain retained interests are included in earnings. 

Inventories  

All
inventories are stated at the lower of cost or realizable values. Cost for a
significant portion of GE U.S. inventories is determined on a last-in, first-out
(LIFO) basis. Cost of other GE inventories is determined on a first-in,
first-out (FIFO) basis. LIFO was used for 39% and 40% of GE inventories at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. GECS inventories consist of finished
products held for sale; cost is determined on a FIFO basis. 

Intangible Assets  

We do
not amortize goodwill, but test it at least annually for impairment at the
reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business
one level below that operating segment (the component level) if discrete
financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management.
However, components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have
similar economic characteristics. We recognize an impairment charge if the
carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value and the carrying
amount of the reporting unit s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that
goodwill. We use discounted cash flows to establish fair values. When available
and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to corroborate
discounted cash flow results. When all or a portion of a reporting unit is
disposed of, goodwill is allocated to the gain or loss on disposition based on
the relative fair values of the business disposed of and the portion of the
reporting unit that will be retained. 

(96) 

We
amortize the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives unless
such lives are deemed indefinite. The cost of intangible assets is generally
amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset s estimated economic life,
except that individually significant customer-related intangible assets are
amortized in relation to total related sales. Amortizable intangible assets are
tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, written
down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values.
Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and
written down to fair value as required. 

GECS Investment Contracts, Insurance Liabilities and Insurance
Annuity Benefits  

Certain
entities, which we consolidate, provide guaranteed investment contracts to
states, municipalities and municipal authorities. 

Our
insurance activities also include providing insurance and reinsurance for life
and health risks and providing certain annuity products. Three product groups
are provided: traditional insurance contracts, investment contracts and
universal life insurance contracts. Insurance contracts are contracts with
significant mortality and/or morbidity risks, while investment contracts are
contracts without such risks. Universal life insurance contracts are a
particular type of long-duration insurance contract whose terms are not fixed
and guaranteed. 

For
short-duration insurance contracts, including accident and health insurance, we
report premiums as earned income over the terms of the related agreements,
generally on a pro-rata basis. For traditional long-duration insurance contracts
including term, whole life and annuities payable for the life of the annuitant,
we report premiums as earned income when due. 

Premiums
received on investment contracts (including annuities without significant
mortality risk) and universal life contracts are not reported as revenues but
rather as deposit liabilities. We recognize revenues for charges and assessments
on these contracts, mostly for mortality, contract initiation, administration
and surrender. Amounts credited to policyholder accounts are charged to
expense. 

Liabilities
for traditional long-duration insurance contracts represent the present value of
such benefits less the present value of future net premiums based on mortality,
morbidity, interest and other assumptions at the time the policies were issued
or acquired. Liabilities for investment contracts and universal life policies
equal the account value, that is, the amount that accrues to the benefit of the
contract or policyholder including credited interest and assessments through the
financial statement date. 

Liabilities
for unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses represent our best estimate of
the ultimate obligations for reported and incurred-but-not-reported claims and
the related estimated claim settlement expenses. Liabilities for unpaid claims
and claims adjustment expenses are continually reviewed and adjusted through
current operations. 

Fair
Value Measurements 

We
adopted ASC 820 in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we adopted it for all
financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value
on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all non-financial
instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis. 

For
financial assets and liabilities fair valued on a recurring basis, fair value is
the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction with a market participant at the measurement date. In the
absence of active markets for the identical assets or liabilities, such
measurements involve developing assumptions based on market observable data and,
in the absence of such data, internal information that is consistent with what
market participants would use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the
measurement date. 

Observable
inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable
inputs reflect our market assumptions. Preference is given to observable inputs.
These two types of inputs create the following fair value
hierarchy: 

Level
      1   

Quoted
      prices for identical instruments in active
  markets. 

(97) 

Level
      2   

Quoted
      prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for
      identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and
      model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant
      value drivers are observable. 

Level
      3   

Significant
      inputs to the valuation model are
unobservable. 

We
maintain policies and procedures to value instruments using the best and most
relevant data available. In addition, we have risk management teams that review
valuation, including independent price validation for certain instruments.
Further, in other instances, we retain independent pricing vendors to assist in
valuing certain instruments. 

The
following section describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure
different financial instruments at fair value on a recurring basis. 

Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities.  When available, we use quoted market prices to determine the
fair value of investment securities, and they are included in Level 1. Level 1
securities primarily include publicly-traded equity securities. 

When
quoted market prices are unobservable, we obtain pricing information from an
independent pricing vendor. The pricing vendor uses various pricing models for
each asset class that are consistent with what other market participants would
use. The inputs and assumptions to the model of the pricing vendor are derived
from market observable sources including: benchmark yields, reported trades,
broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and
other market-related data. Since many fixed income securities do not trade on a
daily basis, the methodology of the pricing vendor uses available information as
applicable such as benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector
groupings, and matrix pricing. The pricing vendor considers available market
observable inputs in determining the evaluation for a security. Thus, certain
securities may not be priced using quoted prices, but rather determined from
market observable information. These investments are included in Level 2 and
primarily comprise our portfolio of corporate fixed income, and government,
mortgage and asset-backed securities. In infrequent circumstances, our pricing
vendors may provide us with valuations that are based on significant
unobservable inputs, and in those circumstances we classify the investment
securities in Level 3. 

Annually,
we conduct reviews of our primary pricing vendor to validate that the inputs
used in that vendor s pricing process are deemed to be market observable as
defined in the standard. While we were not provided access to proprietary models
of the vendor, our reviews have included on-site walk-throughs of the pricing
process, methodologies and control procedures for each asset class and level for
which prices are provided. Our review also included an examination of the
underlying inputs and assumptions for a sample of individual securities across
asset classes, credit rating levels and various durations, a process we continue
to perform for each reporting period. In addition, the pricing vendor has an
established challenge process in place for all security valuations, which
facilitates identification and resolution of potentially erroneous prices. We
believe that the prices received from our pricing vendor are representative of
prices that would be received to sell the assets at the measurement date (exit
prices) and are classified appropriately in the hierarchy. 

We use
non-binding broker quotes as our primary basis for valuation when there is
limited, or no, relevant market activity for a specific instrument or for other
instruments that share similar characteristics. We have not adjusted the prices
we have obtained. Investment securities priced using non-binding broker quotes
are included in Level 3. As is the case with our primary pricing vendor,
third-party brokers do not provide access to their proprietary valuation models,
inputs and assumptions. Accordingly, our risk management personnel conduct
internal reviews of pricing for all such investment securities quarterly to
ensure reasonableness of valuations used in our financial statements. These
reviews are designed to identify prices that appear stale, those that have
changed significantly from prior valuations, and other anomalies that may
indicate that a price may not be accurate. Based on the information available,
we believe that the fair values provided by the brokers are representative of
prices that would be received to sell the assets at the measurement date (exit
prices). 

(98) 

Retained
interests in securitizations are valued using a discounted cash flow model that
considers the underlying structure of the securitization and estimated net
credit exposure, prepayment assumptions, discount rates and expected
life. 

Derivatives.  We use closing
prices for derivatives included in Level 1, which are traded either on exchanges
or liquid over-the-counter markets. 

The
majority of our derivatives are valued using internal models. The models
maximize the use of market observable inputs including interest rate curves and
both forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Derivative assets
and liabilities included in Level 2 primarily represent interest rate swaps,
cross-currency swaps and foreign currency and commodity forward and option
contracts. 

Derivative
assets and liabilities included in Level 3 primarily represent interest rate
products that contain embedded optionality or prepayment features. 

Non-Recurring Fair Value
Measurements . Certain assets are measured at fair value on a
non-recurring basis. These assets are not measured at fair value on an ongoing
basis but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances.
These assets can include loans and long-lived assets that have been reduced to
fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that have been reduced
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, cost and equity method
investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair value when they
are impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in formerly
consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in control that results in
deconsolidation of a subsidiary, if we sell a controlling interest and retain a
noncontrolling stake in the entity. Assets that are written down to fair value
when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently adjusted to fair
value unless further impairment occurs. 

The
following describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure financial and
non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis
and for assets within our pension plans and retiree benefit plans at each
reporting period, as applicable. 

Loans . When available, we use
observable market data, including pricing on recent closed market transactions,
to value loans which are included in Level 2. When this data is unobservable, we
use valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data adjusted for
inherent credit risk, and such loans are included in Level 3. When appropriate,
loans are valued using collateral values as a practical expedient. 

Cost and Equity Method
Investments . Cost and equity method investments are valued using market
observable data such as quoted prices when available. When market observable
data is unavailable, investments are valued using a discounted cash flow model,
comparative market multiples or a combination of both approaches as appropriate.
These investments are generally included in Level 3. 

Investments
in private equity, real estate and collective funds are valued using net asset
values. The net asset values are determined based on the fair values of the
underlying investments in the funds. Investments in private equity and real
estate funds are generally included in Level 3 because they are not redeemable
at the measurement date. Investments in collective funds are included in Level
2. 

Long-lived Assets . Long-lived
assets, including aircraft and real estate, are valued using the best
information available, including quoted market prices or market prices for
similar assets when available or internal cash flow estimates discounted at an
appropriate interest rate or independent appraisals, as appropriate. For real
estate, cash flow estimates are based on current market estimates that reflect
current and projected lease profiles and available industry information about
expected trends in rental, occupancy and capitalization rates. These investments
are generally included in Level 3. 

(99) 

Investments in Subsidiaries and
Formerly Consolidated Subsidiaries . Upon a change in control that results
in either consolidation or deconsolidation of a subsidiary, the fair value
measurement of our previous equity investment or retained noncontrolling stake
in the former subsidiary, respectively, are valued using an income approach, a
market approach, or a combination of both approaches as appropriate. In applying
these methodologies, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating
results, future business plans, economic projections, market observable pricing
multiples of similar businesses and comparable transactions, and possible
control premium. These investments are included in Level 3. 

Accounting Changes  

The FASB
has made the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) effective for financial
statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15,
2009. The ASC combines all previously issued authoritative GAAP into one
codified set of guidance organized by subject area. In these financial
statements, references to previously issued accounting standards have been
replaced with the relevant ASC references. Subsequent revisions to GAAP by the
FASB will be incorporated into the ASC through issuance of Accounting Standards
Updates (ASU). 

We
adopted ASC 820,  Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures , in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we
adopted it for all financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted
for at fair value on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all
non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis.
This guidance establishes a new framework for measuring fair value and expands
related disclosures. See Note 21. 

Effective
January 1, 2008, we adopted ASC 825,  Financial Instruments . Upon
adoption, we elected to report $172 million of commercial mortgage loans at fair
value in order to recognize them on the same accounting basis (measured at fair
value through earnings) as the derivatives economically hedging these loans. See
Note 21. 

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 805,  Business Combinations . This
amendment significantly changed the accounting for business acquisitions both
during the period of the acquisition and in subsequent periods. Among the more
significant changes in the accounting for acquisitions are the
following: 

Acquired
      in-process research and development (IPR D) is accounted for as an
      asset, with the cost recognized as the research and development is
      realized or abandoned. IPR D was previously expensed at the time of
      the acquisition. 

Contingent
      consideration is recorded at fair value as an element of purchase price
      with subsequent adjustments recognized in operations. Contingent
      consideration was previously accounted for as a subsequent adjustment of
      purchase price. 

Subsequent
      decreases in valuation allowances on acquired deferred tax assets are
      recognized in operations after the measurement period. Such changes were
      previously considered to be subsequent changes in consideration and were
      recorded as decreases in goodwill. 

Transaction
      costs are expensed. These costs were previously treated as costs of the
      acquisition. 

Upon
      gaining control of an entity in which an equity method or cost basis
      investment was held, the carrying value of that investment is adjusted to
      fair value with the related gain or loss recorded in earnings. Previously,
      this fair value adjustment would not have been
  made. 

In April
2009, the FASB amended ASC 805 and changed the previous accounting for assets
and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. We adopted
this amendment retrospectively effective January 1, 2009. The amendment requires
pre-acquisition contingencies to be recognized at fair value, if fair value can
be determined or reasonably estimated during the measurement period. If fair
value cannot be determined or reasonably estimated, the standard requires
measurement based on the recognition and measurement criteria of ASC 450,  Contingencies . 

(100) 

On
January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 810, which requires us to make
certain changes to the presentation of our financial statements. This amendment
requires us to classify earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests
(previously referred to as  minority interest ) as part of consolidated net
earnings ($216 million and $641 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively) and to
include the accumulated amount of noncontrolling interests as part of
shareowners' equity ($7,845 million and $8,947 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively). The net earnings amounts we have previously reported are
now presented as "Net earnings attributable to the Company" and, as required,
earnings per share continues to reflect amounts attributable only to the
Company. Similarly, in our presentation of shareowners  equity, we distinguish
between equity amounts attributable to GE shareowners and amounts attributable
to the noncontrolling interests   previously classified as minority interest
outside of shareowners  equity. Beginning January 1, 2009, dividends to
noncontrolling interests ($548 million in 2009) are classified as financing cash
flows. In addition to these financial reporting changes, this guidance provides
for significant changes in accounting related to noncontrolling interests;
specifically, increases and decreases in our controlling financial interests in
consolidated subsidiaries will be reported in equity similar to treasury stock
transactions. If a change in ownership of a consolidated subsidiary results in
loss of control and deconsolidation, any retained ownership interests are
remeasured with the gain or loss reported in net earnings. 

Effective
January 1, 2009, we adopted ASC 808,  Collaborative Arrangements ,
which requires gross basis presentation of revenues and expenses for principal
participants in collaborative arrangements. Our Technology Infrastructure and
Energy Infrastructure segments enter into collaborative arrangements with
manufacturers and suppliers of components used to build and maintain certain
engines, aero-derivatives, and turbines, under which GE and these participants
share in risks and rewards of these product programs. Adoption of the standard
had no effect as our historical presentation had been consistent with the new
requirements. 

We
adopted amendments to ASC 320,  Investments   Debt and Equity
Securities , and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to increase
retained earnings as of April 1, 2009, of $62 million. 

On
January 1, 2007, we adopted amendments to ASC 740,  Income Taxes . Among other
things, the amendments require application of a  more likely than not  threshold
to the recognition and derecognition of tax positions and require recalculation
of returns on leveraged leases when there is a change in the timing or projected
timing of cash flows relating to income taxes associated with such leases. The
January 1, 2007 transition reduced our retained earnings by $126 million, $49
million associated with the application of a "more likely than not" threshold to
the recognition and derecognition of tax provisions and $77 million with the
recalculation of returns on leveraged leases. Of this total, $89 million was a
decrease in goodwill and $77 million was a decrease in financing receivables  
net, partially offset by a $40 million decrease in income tax
liabilities. 

NOTE 2. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF BUSINESSES HELD FOR SALE AND
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

Assets
and Liabilities of Businesses Held for Sale 

On
December 3, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to
transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will
consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation's cable networks,
regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated
investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive $6,500 million in cash
(subject to certain adjustments based on various events between contract signing
and closing) and will own a 49% interest in the newly formed entity. The
transaction is subject to receipt of various regulatory approvals and is
expected to close within the next year. 

We also
entered into an agreement whereby we will acquire approximately 38% of Vivendi s
interest in NBCU for $2,000 million on September 26, 2010, if the transaction
described above has not yet closed. Provided the transaction subsequently
closes, we will acquire the remaining Vivendi NBCU interest for $3,578 million
and make an additional payment of $222 million related to the previously
purchased shares. If the entity formation transaction closes before September
26, 2010, we will purchase Vivendi s entire ownership interest in NBCU (20%) for
$5,800 million. 

(101) 

Prior to
the sale, NBCU will borrow approximately $9,100 million from third-party lenders
and distribute the cash to us. We expect to realize approximately $8,000 million
in cash after debt reduction, transaction fees and the buyout of the Vivendi
interest in NBCU. 

With
respect to our 49% interest in the newly formed entity, we will hold redemption
rights which, if exercised, cause the entity to purchase half of our ownership
interest after 3.5 years and the remaining half after 7 years subject to certain
exceptions, conditions and limitations. Our interest will also be subject to
call provisions which, if exercised, allow Comcast Corporation to purchase our
interest at specified times subject to certain exceptions. The redemption price
for such transactions is determined pursuant to a formula specified in the
agreement. 

We have
classified the NBCU assets and liabilities of $32,150 million and $5,751
million, respectively, as held for sale at December 31, 2009. The major classes
of assets are current receivables ($2,136 million), property, plant and
equipment   net ($1,805 million), goodwill and other intangible assets   net
($21,574 million) and all other assets ($6,514 million), including film and
television production costs of $4,507 million. The major classes of liabilities
are accounts payable ($398 million), other current liabilities ($4,051 million)
and all other liabilities ($1,300 million). 

On
November 12, 2009, we committed to sell our Security business (within Enterprise
Solutions), and expect to complete this sale in early 2010. Assets and
liabilities of $1,780 million and $282 million, respectively, were classified as
held for sale at December 31, 2009. 

On
January 7, 2009, we exchanged our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland,
the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in
Ireland for a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate
bank. Assets and liabilities of $7,887 million and $636 million, respectively,
were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2008; we recognized a $184
million loss, net of tax, related to the classification of the assets held for
sale at the lower of carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to
sell. 

On
December 24, 2008, we committed to sell a portion of our Australian residential
mortgage business, including certain underlying mortgage receivables, and
completed this sale during the first quarter of 2009. Assets of $2,669 million
were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2008 (liabilities were
insignificant); we recognized a $38 million loss, net of tax, related to the
classifications of the assets held for sale at the lower of carrying amount or
estimated fair value less costs to sell. 

Summarized
financial information for businesses held for sale is shown below. 

(102) 

Discontinued Operations  

Discontinued
operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan
business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our
investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC) and
Plastics. Associated results of operations, financial position and cash flows
are separately reported as discontinued operations for all periods
presented. 

GE
Money Japan 

During
the third quarter of 2007, we committed to a plan to sell Lake upon determining
that, despite restructuring, Japanese regulatory limits for interest charges on
unsecured personal loans did not permit us to earn an acceptable return. During
the third quarter of 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which
included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding
our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. As a result, we recognized an
after-tax loss of $908 million in 2007 and an incremental loss in 2008 of $361
million. GE Money Japan revenues from discontinued operations were $1 million,
$763 million and $1,307 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In total,
GE Money Japan losses from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $158
million, $651 million and $1,220 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

WMC 

During
the fourth quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of our U.S. mortgage business.
In connection with the transaction, WMC retained certain obligations related to
loans sold prior to the disposal of the business, including WMC s contractual
obligations to repurchase previously sold loans as to which there was an early
payment default or with respect to which certain contractual representations and
warranties were not met. Reserves related to these obligations were $205 million
at December 31, 2009, and $244 million at December 31, 2008. The amount of these
reserves is based upon pending and estimated future loan repurchase requests,
the estimated percentage of loans validly tendered for repurchase, and our
estimated losses on loans repurchased. Based on our historical experience, we
estimate that a small percentage of the total loans we originated and sold will
be tendered for repurchase, and of those tendered, only a limited amount will
qualify as  validly tendered,  meaning the loans sold did not satisfy specified
contractual obligations. The amount of our current reserve represents our best
estimate of losses with respect to our repurchase obligations. However, actual
losses could exceed our reserve amount if actual claim rates, valid tenders or
losses we incur on repurchased loans are higher than historically observed. WMC
revenues from discontinued operations were $2 million, $(71) million and
$(1,424) million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In total, WMC s loss from
discontinued operations, net of taxes, was $1 million, $41 million and $987
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

GE
industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were
$(18) million, $40 million and $1,867 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

Assets
of GE industrial discontinued operations were $50 million and $64 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Liabilities of GE industrial
discontinued operations were $163 million and $189 million at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, and primarily represent taxes payable and pension
liabilities related to the sale of our Plastics business in 2007. 

Summarized
financial information for discontinued GECS operations is shown
below. 

(103) 

(a)  

The
      sum of GE industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of
      taxes, and GECS earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of
      taxes, are reported as GE industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued
      operations, net of taxes, on the Condensed Statement of
      Earnings. 

Assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, primarily comprised a
deferred tax asset for a loss carryforward, which expires in 2015, related to
the sale of our GE Money Japan business.  

(104) 

NOTE 3. INVESTMENT SECURITIES  

The vast
majority of our investment securities are classified as available-for-sale and
comprise mainly investment-grade debt securities supporting obligations to
annuitants and policyholders in our run-off insurance operations and holders of
guaranteed investment contracts, and retained interests in securitization
entities. 

(a)   

Substantially collateralized by
      U.S. mortgages.  

The fair
value of investment securities increased to $51.9 billion at December 31, 2009,
from $41.4 billion at December 31, 2008, primarily driven by decreases in
unrealized losses due to market improvements, investment of cash into short-term
investments such as money market funds and certificates of deposits, and an
increase in our retained interests in securitization entities. 

(105) 

The
following tables present the gross unrealized losses and estimated fair values
of our available-for-sale investment securities. 

We adopted amendments to ASC 320 and recorded a cumulative
effect adjustment to increase retained earnings as of April 1, 2009, of $62
million.  

We
regularly review investment securities for impairment using both qualitative and
quantitative criteria. We presently do not intend to sell our debt securities
and believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell
these securities that are in an unrealized loss position before recovery of our
amortized cost. We believe that the unrealized loss associated with our equity
securities will be recovered within the foreseeable future. 

The vast
majority of our U.S. corporate debt securities are rated investment grade by the
major rating agencies. We evaluate U.S. corporate debt securities based on a
variety of factors such as the financial health of and specific prospects for
the issuer, including whether the issuer is in compliance with the terms and
covenants of the security. In the event a U.S. corporate debt security is deemed
to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we isolate the credit portion of the
impairment by comparing the present value of our expectation of cash flows to
the amortized cost of the security. We discount the cash flows using the
original effective interest rate of the security. 

(106) 

The vast
majority of our residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) have
investment-grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies and are in a
senior position in the capital structure of the deal. Of our total RMBS at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $897 million and $1,310 million,
respectively, relate to residential subprime credit, primarily supporting our
guaranteed investment contracts. These are collateralized primarily by pools of
individual, direct mortgage loans (a majority of which were originated in 2006
and 2005), not other structured products such as collateralized debt
obligations. In addition, of the total residential subprime credit exposure at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately $768 million and $1,093 million,
respectively, was insured by Monoline insurers (Monolines). 

The vast
majority of our commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) also have
investment-grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies and are in a
senior position in the capital structure of the deal. Our CMBS investments are
collateralized by both diversified pools of mortgages that were originated for
securitization (conduit CMBS) and pools of large loans backed by high quality
properties (large loan CMBS), a majority of which were originated in 2006 and
2007. 

For
asset-backed securities, including RMBS, we estimate the portion of loss
attributable to credit using a discounted cash flow model that considers
estimates of cash flows generated from the underlying collateral. Estimates of
cash flows consider internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment
assumptions that incorporate management s best estimate of key assumptions,
including default rates, loss severity and prepayment rates. For CMBS, we
estimate the portion of loss attributable to credit by evaluating potential
losses on each of the underlying loans in the security. Collateral cash flows
are considered in the context of our position in the capital structure of the
deal. Assumptions can vary widely depending upon the collateral type, geographic
concentrations and vintage. 

If there
has been an adverse change in cash flows for RMBS, management considers credit
enhancements such as monoline insurance (which are features of a specific
security). In evaluating the overall credit worthiness of the Monoline, we use
an analysis that is similar to the approach we use for corporate bonds,
including an evaluation of the sufficiency of the Monoline s cash reserves and
capital, ratings activity, whether the Monoline is in default or default appears
imminent, and the potential for intervention by an insurance or other
regulator. 

During
the period April 1, 2009, through December 31, 2009, we recorded pre-tax,
other-than-temporary impairments of $780 million, of which $455 million was
recorded through earnings ($42 million relates to equity securities), and $325
million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income
(AOCI). 

Prior to
April 1, 2009, we recognized impairments in earnings of $423 million associated
with debt securities still held. As of April 1, 2009, we reversed previously
recognized impairments of $99 million ($62 million after tax) as an adjustment
to retained earnings in accordance with the amendments to ASC 320. Subsequent to
April 1, 2009, we recognized first time impairments of $108 million and
incremental charges on previously impaired securities of $257 million. These
amounts included $124 million related to securities that were subsequently
sold. 

We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain
obligations.  

(107) 

Supplemental
information about gross realized gains and losses on available-for-sale
investment securities follows. 

Although
we generally do not have the intent to sell any specific securities at the end
of the period, in the ordinary course of managing our investment securities
portfolio, we may sell securities prior to their maturities for a variety of
reasons, including diversification, credit quality, yield and liquidity
requirements and the funding of claims and obligations to policyholders. In some
of our bank subsidiaries we maintain a certain level of purchases and sales
volume principally of non-U.S. government debt securities. In these situations,
fair value approximates carrying value for these securities. 

Proceeds
from investment securities sales and early redemptions by the issuer totaled
$7,823 million, $3,942 million and $18,055 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, principally from the sales and early redemptions of securities in
our bank subsidiaries in 2009, securities that support the guaranteed investment
contract portfolio in 2008 and the sale of Swiss Re common stock in
2007. 

We
recognized pre-tax gains on trading securities of $408 million, $108 million and
$292 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Investments in retained
interests increased by $291 million during 2009, decreased $113 million and $102
million during 2008 and 2007, respectively, reflecting changes in fair
value. 

NOTE 4. CURRENT RECEIVABLES  

(a)  

Included
      GE industrial customer receivables factored through a GECS affiliate and
      reported as financing receivables by GECS. See Note
  26. 

GE
receivables balances at December 31, 2009 and 2008, before allowance for losses,
included $7,455 million and $11,274 million, respectively, from sales of goods
and services to customers, and $37 million and $293 million at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, from transactions with associated
companies. 

(108) 

GE
current receivables of $104 million and $231 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively, arose from sales, principally of Aviation goods and services
on open account to various agencies of the U.S. government. About 6% of GE sales
of goods and services were to the U.S. government in 2009, compared with 5% in
2008 and 4% in 2007. 

NOTE 5. INVENTORIES  

NOTE 6. GECS FINANCING RECEIVABLES AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON
FINANCING RECEIVABLES  

Effective
January 1, 2009, loans acquired in a business acquisition are recorded at fair
value, which incorporates our estimate at the acquisition date of the credit
losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. As a result, the allowance for
loan losses is not carried over at acquisition. This may result in lower reserve
coverage ratios prospectively. Details of financing receivables   net
follow. 

(109) 

(a)  

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period s
      presentation. 

(c) 

Consisted
      of loans and financing leases related to certain consolidated, liquidating
      securitization entities. 

GECS
financing receivables include both loans and financing leases. Loans represent
transactions in a variety of forms, including revolving charge and credit,
mortgages, installment loans, intermediate-term loans and revolving loans
secured by business assets. The portfolio includes loans carried at the
principal amount on which finance charges are billed periodically, and loans
carried at gross book value, which includes finance charges. 

Investment
in financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged leases of
aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation equipment, data
processing equipment, medical equipment, commercial real estate and other
manufacturing, power generation, and commercial equipment and
facilities. 

For
federal income tax purposes, the leveraged leases and the majority of the direct
financing leases are leases in which GECS depreciates the leased assets and is
taxed upon the accrual of rental income. Certain direct financing leases are
loans for federal income tax purposes. For these transactions, GECS is taxable
only on the portion of each payment that constitutes interest, unless the
interest is tax-exempt (e.g., certain obligations of state
governments). 

Investment
in direct financing and leveraged leases represents net unpaid rentals and
estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment, less related
deferred income. GECS has no general obligation for principal and interest on
notes and other instruments representing third-party participation related to
leveraged leases; such notes and other instruments have not been included in
liabilities but have been offset against the related rentals receivable. The
GECS share of rentals receivable on leveraged leases is subordinate to the share
of other participants who also have security interests in the leased
equipment. 

(110) 

For
federal income tax purposes, GECS is entitled to deduct the interest expense
accruing on nonrecourse financing related to leveraged leases. 

We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual
maturities.  

(111) 

Individually
impaired loans are defined by GAAP as larger balance or restructured loans for
which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement. An analysis of
impaired loans and specific reserves follows. The vast majority of our consumer
and a portion of our CLL nonearning receivables are excluded from this
definition, as they represent smaller balance homogeneous loans that we evaluate
collectively by portfolio for impairment. 

(a)  

Recognized
      principally on cash basis. 

Impaired
loans increased by $9,303 million from December 31, 2008, to December 31, 2009
primarily relating to increases at Real Estate ($5,678 million) and CLL ($2,697
million). We regularly review our Real Estate loans for impairment using both
quantitative and qualitative factors, such as debt service coverage and
loan-to-value ratios.  We classify Real Estate loans as impaired when
the most recent valuation reflects a projected loan-to-value ratio at maturity
in excess of 100%, even if the loan is currently paying in accordance with
contractual terms. The increase in impaired loans and related specific reserves
at Real Estate reflects our current estimate of collateral values of the
underlying properties, and our estimate of loans which are not past due, but for
which it is probable that we will be unable to collect the full principal
balance at maturity due to a decline in the underlying value of the collateral.
Of our $6,519 million impaired loans at Real Estate at December 31, 2009, $4,396
million are currently paying in accordance with the contractual terms of the
loan. Impaired loans at CLL primarily represent senior secured lending
positions. 

(112) 

(a)  

Other
      primarily included the effects of securitization activity, currency
      exchange and dispositions. 

(b) 

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period s
      presentation. 

(113) 

(a)  

Other
      primarily included the effects of securitization activity, currency
      exchange, dispositions and
acquisitions. 

(b) 

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period s
      presentation. 

(114) 

(a)  

Other
      primarily included the effects of acquisitions, currency exchange and
      securitization activity. 

(b) 

During
      the first quarter of 2009, we transferred Artesia from CLL to Consumer.
      Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period's
      presentation. 

(115) 

NOTE 7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  

(b)  

Depreciable lives exclude
      land.  

(e)  

The GECAS business of Capital
      Finance recognized impairment losses of $127 million in 2009 and $72
      million in 2008 recorded in the caption  Other costs and expenses  in the
      Statement of Earnings to reflect adjustments to fair value based on
      current market values from independent
  appraisers.  

(116) 

Amortization
of GECS equipment leased to others was $7,179 million, $8,173 million and $7,222
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Noncancellable future rentals due
from customers for equipment on operating leases at December 31, 2009, are as
follows: 

NOTE 8. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

(a)  

Excluded
      intangible assets subject to amortization of $365 million at NBCU and $283
      million at our Security business classified as held for sale at December
      31, 2009, which principally consists of capitalized software and
      customer-related assets. 

(b)  

Excluded $2,207 million of
      indefinite-lived intangible assets at NBCU classified as held for sale at
      December 31, 2009, which principally comprised trademarks, tradenames and
      U.S. Federal Communications Commission
  licenses.  

Changes
in goodwill balances follow. 

(117) 

Goodwill related to new acquisitions in 2009 was $3,417 million
and included acquisitions of BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) ($1,605 million) and
Interbanca S.p.A. ($1,394 million) at Capital Finance and Airfoils Technologies
International   Singapore Pte. Ltd. (ATI-Singapore) ($342 million) at Technology
Infrastructure. During 2009, the goodwill balance increased by $128 million
related to acquisition accounting adjustments for prior-year acquisitions. The
most significant of these adjustments was an increase of $180 million associated
with the 2008 acquisition of CitiCapital at Capital Finance, partially offset by
a decrease of $141 million associated with the 2008 acquisition of Hydril
Pressure Control by Energy Infrastructure. Also during 2009, goodwill balances
decreased $19,730 million, primarily as a result of NBCU and our Security
business being classified as held for sale ($19,001 million) and ($1,077
million), respectively, by the deconsolidation of PTL ($634 million) at Capital
Finance and the disposition of 81% of GE Homeland Protection, Inc. ($423
million) at Technology Infrastructure, partially offset by weaker U.S. dollar
($1,666 million).  

On March
20, 2009, we increased our ownership in ATI-Singapore from 49% to 100% and
concurrently acquired from the same seller a controlling financial interest in
certain affiliates. We remeasured our previous equity interests to fair value,
resulting in a pre-tax gain of $254 million, which is reported in other
income. 

On June
25, 2009, we increased our ownership in BAC from 49.99% to 75% for a purchase
price of $623 million, in accordance with terms of a previous agreement. We
remeasured our previously held equity investment to fair value, resulting in a
pre-tax gain of $343 million, which is reported in GECS revenues from
services. 

Goodwill
balances increased $3,694 million in 2008 from new acquisitions. The most
significant increases related to acquisitions of Hydril Pressure Control ($725
million) at Energy Infrastructure, Merrill Lynch Capital ($643 million) at
Capital Finance, Vital Signs ($594 million) and Whatman plc. ($592 million) at
Technology Infrastructure, Bank BPH ($470 million) at Capital Finance, CDM
Resource Management, Ltd. ($229 million) at Capital Finance and CitiCapital
($166 million) at Capital Finance. During 2008, the goodwill balance increased
by $599 million related to acquisition accounting adjustments for prior-year
acquisitions. The most significant of these adjustments were increases of $267
million and $171 million associated with the 2007 acquisitions of Oxygen Media
Corp. by NBC Universal and Sanyo Electric Credit Co., Ltd. by Capital Finance,
respectively. In 2008, goodwill balances decreased $2,639 million as a result of
the stronger U.S. dollar. 

Upon
closing an acquisition, we estimate the fair values of assets and liabilities
acquired and consolidate the acquisition as quickly as possible. Given the time
it takes to obtain pertinent information to finalize the acquired company s
balance sheet, then to adjust the acquired company s accounting policies,
procedures, and books and records to our standards, it is often several quarters
before we are able to finalize those initial fair value estimates. Accordingly,
it is not uncommon for our initial estimates to be subsequently
revised. 

Given
the significant decline in our stock price in the first quarter of 2009 and
market conditions in the financial services industry at that time, we conducted
an additional impairment analysis of the Capital Finance reporting units during
the first quarter of 2009 using data as of January 1, 2009. As a result of these
tests, no goodwill impairment was recognized. 

We
performed our annual impairment test for goodwill at all of our reporting units
in the third quarter using data as of July 1, 2009. In performing the
valuations, we used cash flows that reflected management s forecasts and
discount rates that reflect the risks associated with the current market. Based
on the results of our testing, the fair values at each of the GE Industrial
reporting units and the CLL, Consumer, Energy Financial Services and GECAS
reporting units exceeded their book values; therefore, the second step of the
impairment test (in which fair value of each of the reporting unit s assets and
liabilities are measured) was not required to be performed and no goodwill
impairment was recognized. Due to the volatility and uncertainties in the
current commercial real estate environment, we used a range of valuations to
determine the fair value for our Real Estate reporting unit. While the Real
Estate reporting unit s book value was within the range of its fair value, we
further substantiated our Real Estate goodwill balance by performing the second
step analysis described above. As a result of our tests for Real Estate, no
goodwill impairment was recognized. Our Real Estate reporting unit had a
goodwill balance of $1,189 million at December 31, 2009. 

(118) 

Estimating
the fair value of reporting units involves the use of estimates and significant
judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating
results. If current conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably
possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future
periods. 

During 2009, we recorded additions to intangible assets subject
to amortization of $1,707 million. The components of finite-lived intangible
assets acquired during 2009 and their respective weighted-average amortizable
period are: $302 million   Customer-related (15.4 years); $171 million  
Patents, licenses and trademarks (11.2 years); $611 million   Capitalized
software (4.3 years); $4 million   Lease valuations (5.2 years); and $619
million   All other (4.0 years).  

Consolidated
amortization related to intangible assets subject to amortization was $2,100
million and $2,091 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. We estimate annual
pre-tax amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization over the next
five calendar years to be as follows: 2010   $1,725 million; 2011   $1,442
million; 2012   $1,229 million; 2013   $1,036 million; 2014   $1,044
million. 

(119) 

NOTE 9. ALL OTHER ASSETS  

(a)  

Investments
      in associated companies, film and television costs and long-term
      receivables excluded $1,236 million, $4,507 million and $466 million,
      respectively, of assets classified as assets of businesses held for sale
      at December 31, 2009. 

(c)  

GECS investment in real estate
      consisted principally of two categories: real estate held for investment
      and equity method investments. Both categories contained a wide range of
      properties including the following at December 31, 2009: office buildings
      (45%), apartment buildings (13%), industrial properties (11%), retail
      facilities (9%), franchise properties (7%), parking facilities (2%) and
      other (13%). At December 31, 2009, investments were located in the
      Americas (46%), Europe (32%) and Asia
  (22%).  

(d)  

The fair value of and unrealized
      loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss position for less
      than 12 months at December 31, 2009, were $423 million and $67 million,
      respectively. The fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method
      investments in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more at
      December 31, 2009, were $48 million and $13 million, respectively. The
      fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method investments in a
      continuous loss position for less than 12 months at December 31, 2008,
      were $565 million and $98 million, respectively. The fair value of and
      unrealized loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss position
      for 12 months or more at December 31, 2008, were $64 million and $4
      million, respectively.  

(e) 

Assets
      were classified as held for sale on the date a decision was made to
      dispose of them through sale, securitization or other means. Such assets
      consisted primarily of credit card receivables, loans, aircraft, equipment
      and real estate properties, and were accounted for at the lower of
      carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell. These amounts
      are net of valuation allowances of $145 million and $112 million at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

(120) 

NOTE 10. BORROWINGS AND BANK DEPOSITS  

(121) 

(a)  

Based
      on year-end balances and year-end local currency interest rates. Current
      portion of long-term debt included the effects of related fair value
      interest rate and currency hedges, if any, directly associated with the
      original debt issuance. 

(b) 

General
      Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) had issued and outstanding
      $59,336 million (long-term borrowings) and $35,243 million ($21,823
      million commercial paper and $13,420 million long-term borrowings) of
      senior, unsecured debt that was guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
      Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
      Program at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. GE Capital and GE are
      parties to an Eligible Entity Designation Agreement and GE Capital is
      subject to the terms of a Master Agreement, each entered into with the
      FDIC. The terms of these agreements include, among other things, a
      requirement that GE and GE Capital reimburse the FDIC for any amounts that
      the FDIC pays to holders of GE Capital debt that is guaranteed by the
      FDIC. 

(c) 

Consists
      entirely of obligations of consolidated, liquidating securitization
      entities. See Note 23. 

(e) 

Included
      in total long-term borrowings was $3,138 million of obligations to holders
      of guaranteed investment contracts at December 31, 2009, of which GE
      Capital could be required to repay up to approximately $3,000 million if
      its long-term credit rating were to fall below AA-/Aa3 or its short-term
      credit rating were to fall below
A-1+/P-1. 

(f) 

Entirely
      variable denomination floating rate demand
  notes. 

(g) 

Included
      $1,649 million of covered bonds at December 31, 2009. If the short-term
      credit rating of GE Capital were reduced below A-1/P-1, GE Capital would
      be required to partially cash collateralize these bonds in an amount up to
      $775 million. 

(j) 

Subordinated
      debentures receive rating agency equity credit and were hedged at issuance
      to the U.S. dollar equivalent of $7,725
million. 

Our
borrowings are addressed below from the perspectives of liquidity, interest rate
and currency risk management. Additional information about borrowings and
associated swaps can be found in Note 22. 

Liquidity  is affected by debt
maturities and our ability to repay or refinance such debt. Long-term debt
maturities over the next five years follow. 

(a)   

Fixed and floating rate notes of
      $632 million contain put options with exercise dates in 2010, and which
      have final maturity beyond
2014.  

Committed
credit lines totaling $51.7 billion had been extended to us by 59 banks at
year-end 2009. Availability of these lines is shared between GE and GECS with
$9.0 billion and $51.7 billion available to GE and GECS, respectively. The GECS
lines include $36.8 billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can
borrow funds for periods exceeding one year. Additionally, $14.4 billion are
364-day lines that contain a term-out feature that allows GE or GECS to extend
the borrowings for one year from the date of expiration of the lending
agreement. We pay banks for credit facilities, but amounts were insignificant in
each of the past three years. 

(122) 

NOTE 11. GECS INVESTMENT CONTRACTS, INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND
INSURANCE ANNUITY BENEFITS  

GECS
investment contracts, insurance liabilities and insurance annuity benefits
comprise mainly obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run-off
insurance operations and holders of guaranteed investment
contracts. 

(a)   

Life insurance benefits are
      accounted for mainly by a net-level-premium method using estimated yields
      generally ranging from 3.0% to 8.50% in both 2009 and
      2008.  

When
insurance affiliates cede insurance to third parties, such as reinsurers, they
are not relieved of their primary obligation to policyholders. Losses on ceded
risks give rise to claims for recovery; we establish allowances for probable
losses on such receivables from reinsurers as required. Reinsurance recoverables
are included in the caption  Other GECS receivables" on our Statement of
Financial Position, and amounted to $1,188 million and $1,062 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

We
recognize reinsurance recoveries as a reduction of the Statement of Earnings
caption  Investment contracts, insurance losses and insurance annuity benefits. 
Reinsurance recoveries were $219 million, $221 million and $104 million for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

NOTE 12. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS  

Pension
Benefits 

We
sponsor a number of pension plans. Principal pension plans, together with
affiliate and certain other pension plans (other pension plans) detailed in this
note, represent about 99% of our total pension assets. We use a December 31
measurement date for our plans. 

Principal Pension Plans  are
the GE Pension Plan and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan. 

The GE
Pension Plan provides benefits to certain U.S. employees based on the greater of
a formula recognizing career earnings or a formula recognizing length of service
and final average earnings. Certain benefit provisions are subject to collective
bargaining. 

The GE
Supplementary Pension Plan is an unfunded plan providing supplementary
retirement benefits primarily to higher-level, longer-service U.S.
employees. 

(123) 

Other Pension Plans  in 2009
included 32 U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans with pension assets or obligations
greater than $50 million. These defined benefit plans provide benefits to
employees based on formulas recognizing length of service and
earnings. 

(a)  

In
      2009, included a $103 million loss as a result of our agreement with
      Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly
      formed entity in which we will own a 49%
  interest. 

Actuarial assumptions  are
described below. The discount rates at December 31 measured the year-end benefit
obligations and the earnings effects for the subsequent year. 

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension
plan assets, we consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as
historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In
developing future return expectations for our principal benefit plans' assets,
we evaluate general market trends as well as key elements of asset class returns
such as expected earnings growth, yields and spreads across a number of
potential scenarios. For the principal pension plans, we apply our expected rate
of return to a market-related value of assets, which stabilizes variability in
the amounts to which we apply that expected return.  

We
amortize experience gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in
actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the
average future service of employees. 

Funding policy  for the GE
Pension Plan is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding
requirements as set forth in employee benefit and tax laws plus such additional
amounts as we may determine to be appropriate. We have not made contributions to
the GE Pension Plan since 1987 and will not make any such contributions in 2010.
In 2010, we expect to pay approximately $190 million for benefit payments under
our GE Supplementary Pension Plan and administrative expenses of our principal
pension plans and expect to contribute approximately $600 million to other
pension plans. In 2009, comparative amounts were $168 million and $676 million,
respectively. 

(124) 

Benefit obligations  are
described in the following tables. Accumulated and projected benefit obligations
(ABO and PBO) represent the obligations of a pension plan for past service as of
the measurement date. ABO is the present value of benefits earned to date with
benefits computed based on current compensation levels. PBO is ABO increased to
reflect expected future compensation. 

(a)  

Principally
      associated with discount rate
changes. 

(a) 

Primarily
      related to the GE Supplementary Pension
Plan. 

Plan
Assets 

The fair
value of the major categories of the pension plans' investments are presented
below. The inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of the
assets are consistently applied and described in Note 21. 

(125) 

Plan
fiduciaries of the GE Pension Plan set investment policies and strategies for
the GE Pension Trust and oversee its investment allocation, which includes
selecting investment managers, commissioning periodic asset-liability studies
and setting long-term strategic targets. Long-term strategic investment
objectives include preserving the funded status of the plan and balancing risk
and return. Target allocation percentages are established at an asset class
level by plan fiduciaries. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not
limitations, and occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or
below a target range. 

GE
Pension Trust assets are invested subject to the following additional
guidelines: 

Short-term
      securities must generally be rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such
      securities that may be rated A2/P2. 

Real
      estate investments may not exceed 25% of total
  assets. 

Investments
      in restricted securities (excluding real estate investments) that are not
      freely tradable may not exceed 30% of total assets (actual was 17% of
      trust assets at December 31, 2009). 

According
to statute, the aggregate holdings of all qualifying employer securities (e.g.,
GE common stock) and qualifying employer real property may not exceed 10% of the
fair value of trust assets at the time of purchase. GE securities represented
3.3% and 3.5% of trust assets at year-end 2009 and 2008,
respectively. 

The GE
Pension Plan has a broadly diversified portfolio of investments in equities,
fixed income, private equities, real estate and hedge funds; these investments
are both U.S. and non-U.S. in nature. As of December 31, 2009, no one sector
concentration of assets exceeded 15% of total GE Pension Plan
assets. 

(126) 

The
following table presents GE Pension Plan investments measured at fair
value. 

(a) 

Primarily
      represented investment-grade bonds of U.S. issuers from diverse
      industries. 

(b) 

Primarily
      represented investments in non-U.S. corporate bonds and commercial
      mortgage-backed securities. 

(c) 

Included
      direct investments and investment
funds. 

(d) 

Substantially
      all represented hedge funds. 

The
following table presents the changes in Level 3 investments for the GE Pension
Plan. 

(a) 

Transfers
      in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the
      period. 

(b) 

Represented
      the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in the GE
      Pension Plan earnings. 

(127) 

As of
December 31, 2009, other pension plans' assets were $6,919 million. Equity
investment funds amounting to $3,996 million and fixed income and cash
investment funds amounting to $1,843 million represented approximately 85% of
total investments as of December 31, 2009. The investments were classified as
15% Level 1, 80% Level 2 and 5% Level 3. The changes in Level 3 investments
were insignificant for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

(a)  

Fair value of assets less PBO, as
      shown in the preceding
tables.  

(b) 

For
      principal pension plans, represents the GE Supplementary Pension Plan
      liability. 

In 2010,
we estimate that we will amortize $260 million of prior service cost and $1,335
million of net actuarial loss for the principal pension plans from shareowners 
equity into pension cost. For other pension plans, the estimated prior service
cost and net actuarial loss to be amortized over the next fiscal year are $15
million and $210 million, respectively. Comparable amortized amounts in 2009,
respectively, were $426 million and $348 million for the principal pension plans
and $11 million and $134 million for other pension plans. 

Retiree
Health and Life Benefits 

We
sponsor a number of retiree health and life insurance benefit plans (retiree
benefit plans). Principal retiree benefit plans are discussed below; other such
plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate. We use a December 31
measurement date for our plans. 

Principal Retiree Benefit
Plans  provide health and life insurance benefits to certain employees who
retire under the GE Pension Plan with 10 or more years of service. Eligible
retirees share in the cost of healthcare benefits. These plans cover
approximately 220,000 retirees and dependents. 

(128) 

(a) 

In
      2009, we recognized a $45 million loss as a result of our agreement with
      Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly
      formed entity in which we will own a 49% interest. Prior service cost
      amortization increased by $164 million and net actuarial gain amortization
      increased by $119 million as a result of this
  agreement. 

Actuarial assumptions  are
described below .  The
discount rates at December 31 measured the year-end benefit obligations and the
earnings effects for the subsequent year. 

(c) 

Includes
      benefits from new healthcare supplier
contracts. 

To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on retiree life plan assets, we
consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and
expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In developing future
return expectations for retiree benefit plan assets, we evaluate general market
trends as well as key elements of asset class returns such as expected earnings
growth, yields and spreads across a number of potential scenarios. We apply our
expected rate of return to a market-related value of assets, which stabilizes
variability in the amounts to which we apply that expected return. 

We
amortize experience gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in
actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the
average future service of employees. 

Funding
Policy.  We fund retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. We
expect to contribute approximately $710 million in 2010 to fund such benefits.
We fund retiree life insurance benefits at our discretion.  

(129) 

Changes
in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for retiree benefit plans
follow. 

(a)  

For
      2009, included a $152 million reduction in APBO as a result of our
      agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the assets of the NBCU
      business to a newly formed entity in which we will own a 49%
      interest. 

(b) 

For
      2008, primarily related to benefits from new healthcare supplier
      contracts. 

A one
percentage point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the
following effects. 

Plan
Assets 

The fair
value of the major categories of retiree benefit plans' investments are
presented below. The inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair
value of assets are consistently applied and described in Note 21. 

(a) 

Net
      of Medicare Part D subsidy. 

(130) 

Plan
fiduciaries set investment policies and strategies for the trust and oversee its
investment allocation, which includes selecting investment managers and setting
long-term strategic targets. Long-term strategic investment objectives include
preserving the funded status of the plan and balancing risk and return. Target
allocation percentages are established at an asset class level by plan
fiduciaries. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and
occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target
range. 

Trust
assets invested in short-term securities must generally be invested in
securities rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such securities that may be
rated A2/P2. According to statute, the aggregate holdings of all qualifying
employer securities (e.g., GE common stock) and qualifying employer real
property may not exceed 10% of the fair value of trust assets at the time of
purchase. GE securities represented 3.7% and 3.6% of trust assets at year-end
2009 and 2008, respectively. 

As of
December 31, 2009, retiree benefit plans' assets were $1,138 million. U.S. and
non-U.S. equity securities amounting to $315 million and $237 million,
respectively, fixed income and cash investment funds amounting to $214 million
and other debt securities amounting to $193 million represented approximately
80% of total investments as of December 31, 2009. The plans' investments were
classified as 42% Level 1, 37% Level 2 and 21% Level 3. The Level 3
investments primarily represented investments in private equities and real
estate. The changes in Level 3 investments were insignificant for the year ended
December 31, 2009. 

(a)  

Fair value of assets less APBO, as
      shown in the preceding
tables.  

In 2010,
we estimate that we will amortize $630 million of prior service cost and $20
million of net actuarial gain from shareowners  equity into retiree benefit
plans cost. Comparable amortized amounts in 2009 were $836 million of prior
service cost and $225 million of net actuarial gains. 

(131) 

(a) 

In
      2009, the Company contracted with a third party to administer our
      principal post-age 65 drug plan as a Medicare-approved prescription drug
      plan. As a result, this post-age 65 drug plan will no longer qualify for
      the Medicare Part D direct employer subsidy effective January 1, 2011. The
      effects of this change have been included in our APBO as of December 31,
      2009. 

Postretirement
Benefit Plans 

NOTE 13. ALL OTHER LIABILITIES  

This
caption includes liabilities for various items including non-current
compensation and benefits, deferred income, interest on tax liabilities,
unrecognized tax benefits, accrued participation and residuals, environmental
remediation, asset retirement obligations, derivative instruments, product
warranties and a variety of sundry items. 

Accruals
for non-current compensation and benefits amounted to $24,921 million and
$22,543 million for year-end 2009 and 2008, respectively. These amounts include
postretirement benefits, pension accruals, and other compensation and benefit
accruals such as deferred incentive compensation. The increase in 2009 was
primarily the result of an increase in pension accruals. 

We are
involved in numerous remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as
required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs exclude
possible insurance recoveries and, when dates and amounts of such costs are not
known, are not discounted. When there appears to be a range of possible costs
with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the low end of such range.
Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information
related to individual sites make it difficult to develop a meaningful estimate
of the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation
exposure. 

(132) 

NOTE
14. INCOME TAXES 

GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return.
The GECS provision for current tax expense includes its effect on the
consolidated return. The effect of GECS on the consolidated liability is settled
in cash as GE tax payments are due.  

Consolidated
U.S. earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes were $(498)
million in 2009, $2,659 million in 2008 and $9,078 million in 2007. The
corresponding amounts for non-U.S.-based operations were $10,842 million in
2009, $17,123 million in 2008 and $18,450 million in 2007. 

Consolidated
current tax expense includes amounts applicable to U.S. federal income taxes of
a benefit of $886 million and $723 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
expense of $64 million in 2007, and amounts applicable to non-U.S. jurisdictions
of $2,416 million, $3,060 million and $3,042 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Consolidated deferred taxes related to U.S. federal income taxes
were a benefit of $2,423 million and $827 million in 2009 and 2008,
respectively, and expense of $776 million in 2007. 

Deferred
income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as from
net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax
rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered.
Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes
payable on taxable income in future years. We evaluate the recoverability of
these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future
expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable
temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning
strategies. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a
deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is
established. 

(133) 

Our
businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state
and foreign tax laws, regulations and policies. Changes to these laws or
regulations may affect our tax liability, return on investments and business
operations. For example, GE s effective tax rate is reduced because active
business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is
taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A significant portion of this reduction
depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax
on certain active financial services income until that income is repatriated to
the United States as a dividend. This provision is consistent with international
tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more
effectively with foreign banks and other foreign financial institutions in
global markets. This provision, which expired at the end of 2009, has been
scheduled to expire and has been extended by Congress on five previous
occasions, including in October of 2008. A one-year extension was passed by the
House of Representatives in 2009 and the Senate Finance Committee Chairman and
Ranking Member have indicated an intention to extend the provision for one year
retroactive to the beginning of 2010, but there can be no assurance that it will
be extended. In the event the provision is not extended after 2009, the current
U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United
States would increase, making it more difficult for U.S. financial services
companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended, we
expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2010. 

We have
not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of non-U.S. affiliates
and associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely. These earnings
relate to ongoing operations and, at December 31, 2009, were approximately $84
billion. Most of these earnings have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business
operations and we do not intend to repatriate these earnings to fund U.S.
operations. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not
practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be
payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely. Deferred taxes are
provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies when we
plan to remit those earnings. 

During
2009, following the change in our external credit ratings, funding actions taken
and review of our operations, liquidity and funding, we determined that
undistributed prior-year earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of GECS, on which we
had previously provided deferred U.S. taxes, would be indefinitely reinvested
outside the U.S. This change increased the amount of prior-year earnings
indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $2 billion, resulting
in an income tax benefit of $700 million in 2009. 

During
2008, because the use of foreign tax credits no longer required the repatriation
of prior-year earnings, we increased the amount of prior-year earnings that were
indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $1.0 billion,
resulting in a decrease to the income tax provision of approximately $350
million. 

As
discussed in Note 1, on January 1, 2007, we adopted amendments to ASC 740,
resulting in a $49 million decrease in retained earnings, an $89 million
decrease in goodwill and a $40 million decrease in income tax
liability. 

Annually,
we file over 7,000 income tax returns in over 250 global taxing jurisdictions.
We are under examination or engaged in tax litigation in many of these
jurisdictions. During 2007, the IRS completed the audit of our consolidated U.S.
income tax returns for 2000-2002. At December 31, 2009, the IRS was auditing our
consolidated U.S. income tax returns for 2003-2007. In addition, certain other
U.S. tax deficiency issues and refund claims for previous years were unresolved.
It is reasonably possible that the 2003-2005 U.S. audit cycle will be completed
during the next 12 months, which could result in a decrease in our balance of
 unrecognized tax benefits    that is, the aggregate tax effect of differences
between tax return positions and the benefits recognized in our financial
statements. We believe that there are no other jurisdictions in which the
outcome of unresolved issues or claims is likely to be material to our results
of operations, financial position or cash flows. We further believe that we have
made adequate provision for all income tax uncertainties. 

The
balance of unrecognized tax benefits, the amount of related interest and
penalties we have provided and what we believe to be the range of reasonably
possible changes in the next 12 months, were: 

(134) 

(a)   

Some portion of such reduction
      might be reported as discontinued
  operations.  

A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits
is as follows: 

We
classify interest on tax deficiencies as interest expense; we classify income
tax penalties as provision for income taxes. For the year ended December 31,
2009, $172 million of interest expense and $14 million of tax expense related to
penalties were recognized in the statement of earnings, compared with $268
million and $19 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $(279) million
and $(34) million for the year ended December 31, 2007. 

A
reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the actual
income tax rate is provided below. 

(a) 

2009
      included (6.8)% and 31.7% from indefinite reinvestment of prior-year
      earnings for consolidated and GECS,
  respectively. 

(b) 

2008
      included (1.8)% and (6.2)% from indefinite reinvestment of prior-year
      earnings for consolidated and GECS,
  respectively. 

(135) 

Deferred
Income Taxes 

Aggregate
deferred income tax amounts are summarized below. 

Principal components of our net liability (asset) representing
deferred income tax balances are as follows:  

(a)  

Represented the tax effects of
      temporary differences related to expense accruals for a wide variety of
      items, such as employee compensation and benefits, pension plan
      liabilities, interest on tax liabilities, product warranties and other
      sundry items that are not currently
  deductible.  

(136) 

NOTE 15. SHAREOWNERS  EQUITY  

(a) 

Additions
      resulting from issuances in 2008 were inconsequential for preferred stock
      and $33 million for common stock. 

(e) 

The
      2009 opening balance was adjusted as of April 1, 2009, for the cumulative
      effect of changes in accounting principles of $62 million related to
      adopting amendments on impairment guidance in ASC 320,  Investments   Debt and Equity
      Securities . The cumulative effect of adopting ASC 825,  Financial Instruments ,
      at January 1, 2008, was insignificant. The 2007 opening balance change
      reflects cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles of $(126)
      million related to adopting amendments to ASC 740,  Income Taxes . See Note 1 for further
      information. 

(g) 

Related
      to accretion of redeemable securities to their redemption
      value. 

(h) 

On
      January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 810 that requires us to
      classify noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as "minority
      Interest") as part of shareowners' equity and to disclose the amount of
      other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests.
      Changes to noncontrolling interests during 2009 resulted from net earnings
      $216 million, dividends paid $(548) million, deconsolidation of PTL $(331)
      million, dissolution of the joint venture in FANUC Ltd. $(376) million,
      AOCI $(95) million and other changes of $32 million. Changes to the
      individual components of other AOCI attributable to noncontrolling
      interests were insignificant. 

(137) 

Shares
of GE Preferred Stock 

On
October 16, 2008, we issued 30,000 shares of 10% cumulative perpetual preferred
stock (par value $1.00 per share) having an aggregate liquidation value of $3.0
billion, and warrants to purchase 134,831,460 shares of common stock (par value
$0.06 per share) for aggregate proceeds of $3.0 billion in cash. The proceeds
were allocated to the preferred shares ($2.5 billion) and the warrants ($0.5
billion) on a relative fair value basis and recorded in other capital. The
preferred stock is redeemable at our option three years after issuance at a
price of 110% of liquidation value plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The
warrants are exercisable for five years at an exercise price of $22.25 per share
of common stock and are settled through physical share issuance. Upon redemption
of the preferred shares, the difference between the redemption amount and the
carrying amount of the preferred stock will be recorded as a reduction of
retained earnings and considered a deemed dividend for purposes of computing
earnings per share. 

Shares
of GE Common Stock 

On
September 25, 2008, we suspended our three-year, $15 billion share repurchase
program, which was initiated in December 2007. Under this program, on a book
basis, we repurchased 99.1 million shares for a total of $3.1 billion during
2008. 

On
October 7, 2008, GE completed an offering of 547.8 million shares of common
stock at a price of $22.25 per share. 

GE has
13.2 billion authorized shares of common stock ($0.06 par value). 

Common
shares issued and outstanding are summarized in the following
table. 

Noncontrolling
Interests 

Noncontrolling
interests in equity of consolidated affiliates includes common shares in
consolidated affiliates and preferred stock issued by affiliates of GE Capital.
Preferred shares that we are required to redeem at a specified or determinable
date are classified as liabilities. The balance is summarized as
follows: 

(a) 

Included
      noncontrolling interests in partnerships and common shares of consolidated
      affiliates. 

(b) 

The
      preferred stock pays cumulative dividends at an average rate of
      6.81%. 

(138) 

NOTE 16. OTHER STOCK-RELATED INFORMATION  

We grant
stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance share units (PSUs)
to employees under the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan. This plan replaced the
1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. In addition, we grant options and RSUs in limited
circumstances to consultants, advisors and independent contractors (primarily
non-employee talent at NBC Universal) under a plan approved by our Board of
Directors in 1997 (the consultants  plan). There are outstanding grants under
one shareowner-approved option plan for non-employee directors. Share
requirements for all plans may be met from either unissued or treasury shares.
Stock options expire 10 years from the date they are granted and vest over
service periods that range from one to five years. RSUs give the recipients the
right to receive shares of our stock upon the vesting of their related
restrictions. Restrictions on RSUs vest in various increments and at various
dates, beginning after one year from date of grant through grantee retirement.
Although the plan permits us to issue RSUs settleable in cash, we have only
issued RSUs settleable in shares of our stock. PSUs give recipients the right to
receive shares of our stock upon the achievement of certain performance
targets. 

All
grants of GE options under all plans must be approved by the Management
Development and Compensation Committee, which consists entirely of independent
directors. 

(a)   

In 2007, the Board of Directors
      approved the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan). The Plan replaced
      the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The maximum number of shares that may
      be granted under the Plan is 500 million shares, of which no more than 250
      million may be available for awards granted in any form provided under the
      Plan other than options or stock appreciation rights. The approximate
      105.9 million shares available for grant under the 1990 Plan were retired
      upon approval of the 2007 Plan. Total shares available for future issuance
      under the 2007 Plan amounted to 284.0 million shares at December 31,
      2009.  

(b)  

Not
    applicable.  

(c)  

Total shares available for future
      issuance under the consultants  plan amount to 28.1 million
      shares.  

Outstanding
options expire on various dates through December 10, 2019. 

(139) 

The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2009. 

At
year-end 2008, options with an average exercise price of $37.59 were exercisable
on 162 million shares. 

(a) 

Average
      contractual life remaining in
years. 

We
measure the fair value of each stock option grant at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted average grant-date fair value
of options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $3.81, $5.26 and $9.28,
respectively. The following assumptions were used in arriving at the fair value
of options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively: risk-free interest
rates of 3.2%, 3.4% and 4.2%; dividend yields of 3.9%, 4.4% and 2.9%; expected
volatility of 49%, 27% and 25%; and expected lives of six years and ten months,
six years and nine months, and six years and ten months. Risk-free interest
rates reflect the yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities. Expected
dividend yields presume a set dividend rate. For stock options granted in 2009
and the fourth quarter of 2008, we used a historical five-year average for the
dividend yield. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from
traded options and historical volatility of our stock. The expected option lives
are based on our historical experience of employee exercise
behavior. 

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted
to an insignificant amount, $45 million and $375 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2009, there was $597 million of total unrecognized compensation
cost related to nonvested options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a
weighted average period of two years, of which approximately $191 million, pre
tax, is expected to be recognized in 2010. 

(140) 

Stock
option expense recognized in net earnings amounted to $120 million in 2009 and
$69 million in both 2008 and 2007. Cash received from option exercises during
2009, 2008 and 2007 was an insignificant amount, $353 million and $747 million,
respectively. The tax benefit realized from stock options exercised during 2009,
2008 and 2007 was an insignificant amount, $15 million and $131 million,
respectively. 

The fair
value of each restricted stock unit is the market price of our stock on the date
of grant. The weighted average grant date fair value of RSUs granted during
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $13.63, $28.74 and $38.84, respectively. The total
intrinsic value of RSUs vested during 2009, 2008 and 2007 amounted to $139
million, $274 million and $181 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009,
there was $482 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested RSUs. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
period of two years, of which approximately $174 million, pre tax, is expected
to be recognized in 2010. As of December 31, 2009, 1.0 million PSUs with a
weighted average remaining contractual term of two years, an aggregate intrinsic
value of $14 million and $7 million of unrecognized compensation cost were
outstanding. 

Other
share-based compensation expense recognized in net earnings amounted to $127
million, $155 million and $173 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

The
total income tax benefit recognized in earnings for all share-based compensation
arrangements amounted to $118 million, $106 million and $118 million in 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

When
stock options are exercised and restricted stock vests, the difference between
the assumed tax benefit and the actual tax benefit must be recognized in our
financial statements. In circumstances in which the actual tax benefit is lower
than the estimated tax benefit, that difference is recorded in equity, to the
extent there are sufficient accumulated excess tax benefits. At December 31,
2009, our accumulated excess tax benefits are sufficient to absorb any future
differences between actual and estimated tax benefits for all of our outstanding
option and restricted stock grants. 

(141) 

NOTE
17. OTHER INCOME 

NOTE
18. GECS REVENUES FROM SERVICES 

(b) 

Included
      a gain on the sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL
      and a related gain on the remeasurement of the retained investment to fair
      value totaling $296 million in the first quarter of 2009. See Note
      23. 

(c) 

Included
      a gain of $343 million on the remeasurement to fair value of our equity
      method investment in BAC, following our acquisition of a controlling
      interest in the second quarter of 2009. See Note
  8. 

NOTE 19. SUPPLEMENTAL COST INFORMATION  

We
funded research and development expenditures of $3,324 million in 2009, $3,113
million in 2008 and $3,048 million in 2007. Research and development costs are
classified in cost of goods sold in the Statement of Earnings. In addition,
research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S.
government, totaled $1,050 million, $1,287 million and $1,067 million in 2009,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

Rental
expense under operating leases is shown below. 

(142) 

At
December 31, 2009, minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating
leases aggregated $2,674 million and $2,888 million for GE and GECS,
respectively. Amounts payable over the next five years follow. 

GE s
selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $14,842 million in 2009,
$14,401 million in 2008 and $14,148 million in 2007. 

Our
Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure segments enter into
collaborative arrangements with manufacturers and suppliers of components used
to build and maintain certain engines, aero-derivatives, and turbines, under
which GE and these participants share in risks and rewards of these product
programs. Under these arrangements, participation fees earned and recorded as
other income totaled $1 million, $394 million and $481 million for the years
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Payments to participants are recorded as
costs of services sold ($504 million, $423 million and $320 million for the
years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively) or as cost of goods sold ($1,731
million, $1,882 million and $1,573 million for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively). 

NOTE 20. EARNINGS PER SHARE INFORMATION  

Effective January 1, 2009, our unvested restricted stock unit
awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents
are considered participating securities and, therefore, are included in the
computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Application
of this treatment had an insignificant effect.  

(a) 

Included
      an insignificant amount of dividend equivalents in each of the three years
      presented and an insignificant amount related to accretion of redeemable
      securities in 2009. 

For the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, there were approximately 328
million, 204 million and 77 million, respectively, of outstanding stock awards
that were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because
their effect was antidilutive. 

(143) 

Earnings-per-share
amounts are computed independently for earnings from continuing operations, loss
from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of per-share
amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the
total per-share amounts for net earnings. 

NOTE 21. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  

We
adopted ASC 820 in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we adopted it for all
financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value
on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all non-financial
instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This guidance
establishes a new framework for measuring fair value and expands related
disclosures. Broadly, the framework requires fair value to be determined based
on the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a
liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. It
also establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy based upon observable and
non-observable inputs. 

The
following tables present our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis. Included in the tables are investment securities of $25,729
million and $21,967 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
primarily supporting obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run-off
insurance operations, and $6,629 million and $8,190 million at December 31, 2009
and 2008, respectively, supporting obligations to holders of guaranteed
investment contracts. Such securities are mainly investment grade. 

(144) 

(b) 

The
      netting of derivative receivables and payables is permitted when a legally
      enforceable master netting agreement exists. Included fair value
      adjustments related to our own and counterparty credit
    risk. 

(c) 

The
      fair value of derivatives included an adjustment for non-performance risk.
      At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the cumulative adjustment was a gain of $9
      million and $177 million,
respectively. 

(d) 

Included
      private equity investments and loans designated under the fair value
      option. 

(e) 

Primarily
      represented the liability associated with certain of our deferred
      incentive compensation plans. 

(145) 

The
following tables present the changes in Level 3 instruments measured on a
recurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The majority of our Level 3 balances consist of investment securities classified
as available-for-sale with changes in fair value recorded in shareowners 
equity. 

(a) 

Earnings
      effects are primarily included in the  GECS revenues from services  and
       Interest and other financial charges  captions in the Condensed Statement
      of Earnings. 

(b) 

Transfers
      in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the
      period. Transfers out of Level 3 were a result of increased use of quotes
      from independent pricing vendors based on recent trading
      activity. 

(c) 

Represented
      the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in
      earnings. 

(d) 

Primarily
      comprised of interest accretion. 

(e) 

Represented
      derivative assets net of derivative liabilities and included cash accruals
      of $19 million not reflected in the fair value hierarchy
      table. 

(146) 

(a)  

Earnings
      effects are primarily included in the  GECS revenues from services  and
       Interest and other financial charges  captions in the Statement of
      Earnings. 

(b) 

Transfers
      in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the
      period. Transfers into Level 3 were a result of increased use of
      non-binding broker quotes that could not be validated with other market
      observable data, resulting from continued deterioration in the credit
      markets. 

(c) 

Represented
      the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in
      earnings. 

(d) 

Earnings
      from derivatives were partially offset by $760 million in losses from
      related derivatives included in Level 2 and $4 million in losses from
      underlying debt obligations in qualifying fair value
    hedges. 

(e) 

Represented
      derivative assets net of derivative liabilities and included cash accruals
      of $27 million not reflected in the fair value hierarchy
      table. 

Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements  

Non-recurring
fair value amounts (as measured at the time of the adjustment) for assets still
held at December 31, 2009 and 2008, totaled $516 million and $48 million,
identified as Level 2, and $17,434 million and $3,145 million, identified as
Level 3, respectively. The increase in Level 3 amounts related primarily to our
retained investment in PTL ($5,751 million), financing receivables and loans
held for sale ($5,420 million), long-lived assets ($5,105 million), primarily
real estate held for investment, equipment leased to others and equipment held
for sale, and cost and equity method investments ($1,006 million). 

The
following table represents the fair value adjustments to assets measured at fair
value on a non-recurring basis and still held at December 31, 2009 and
2008. 

(b) 

ASC
      820 was adopted for non-financial assets valued on a non-recurring basis
      as of January 1, 2009. 

(147) 

NOTE 22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  

The
following table provides information about the assets and liabilities not
carried at fair value in our Statement of Financial Position. Consistent with
ASC 825,  Financial
Instruments , the table excludes finance leases and non-financial assets
and liabilities. Apart from certain of our borrowings and certain marketable
securities, few of the instruments discussed below are actively traded and their
fair values must often be determined using financial models. Realization of the
fair value of these instruments depends upon market forces beyond our control,
including marketplace liquidity. 

(a)   

These financial instruments do not
      have notional amounts.  

(c)  

Principally cost method
      investments.  

(d)  

Fair values exclude interest rate
      and currency derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings. Had they been
      included, the fair value of borrowings at December 31, 2009 and 2008 would
      have been reduced by $2,856 million and $3,776 million,
      respectively.  

A
description of how we estimate fair values follows. 

Loans 

Based on
quoted market prices, recent transactions and/or discounted future cash flows,
using rates we would charge to similar borrowers with similar
maturities. 

Borrowings
and bank deposits 

Valuation
methodologies using current market interest rate data which are comparable to
market quotes adjusted for our non-performance risk. 

(148) 

Investment
contract benefits 

Based on
expected future cash flows, discounted at currently offered rates for immediate
annuity contracts or the income approach for single premium deferred
annuities. 

Guaranteed
investment contracts 

Based on
valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data, adjusted for
our non-performance risk. 

All
other instruments 

Based on
observable market transactions, valuation methodologies using current market
interest rate data adjusted for inherent credit risk and/or quoted market
prices. 

Assets
and liabilities that are reflected in the accompanying financial statements at
fair value are not included in the above disclosures; such items include cash
and equivalents, investment securities and derivative financial
instruments. 

Additional
information about certain categories in the table above follows. 

Insurance
  credit life 

Certain
insurance affiliates, primarily in Consumer, issue credit life insurance
designed to pay the balance due on a loan if the borrower dies before the loan
is repaid. As part of our overall risk management process, we cede to third
parties a portion of this associated risk, but are not relieved of our primary
obligation to policyholders. 

Derivatives and hedging  

As a
matter of policy, we use derivatives for risk management purposes, and we do not
use derivatives for speculative purposes. A key risk management objective for
our financial services businesses is to mitigate interest rate and currency risk
by seeking to ensure that the characteristics of the debt match the assets they
are funding. If the form (fixed versus floating) and currency denomination of
the debt we issue do not match the related assets, we typically execute
derivatives to adjust the nature and tenor of funding to meet this objective.
The determination of whether we enter into a derivative transaction or issue
debt directly to achieve this objective depends on a number of factors,
including customer needs for specific types of financing, and market related
factors that affect the type of debt we can issue. 

(149) 

Of the
outstanding notional amount of $353,000 million, approximately 87% or $307,000
million, is associated with reducing or eliminating the interest rate, currency
or market risk between financial assets and liabilities in our financial
services businesses. The remaining derivative activities primarily relate to
hedging against adverse changes in currency exchange rates and commodity prices
related to anticipated sales and purchases, providing certain derivatives and/or
support arrangements to our customers, and contracts containing certain clauses
which meet the accounting definition of a derivative. The instruments used in
these activities are designated as hedges when practicable. When we are not able
to apply hedge accounting, or when the derivative and the hedged item are both
recorded in earnings currently, the derivatives are deemed economic hedges and
hedge accounting is not applied. This most frequently occurs when we hedge a
recognized foreign currency transaction (e.g., a receivable or payable) with a
derivative. Since the effects of changes in exchange rates are reflected
currently in earnings for both the derivative and the transaction, the economic
hedge does not require hedge accounting. 

The
following table provides information about the fair value of our derivatives, by
contract type, separating those accounted for as hedges and those that are
not. 

Derivatives
      are classified in the captions  All other assets  and  All other
      liabilities  in our financial
statements. 

(a) 

The
      netting of derivative receivables and payables is permitted when a legally
      enforceable master netting agreement exists. Amounts included fair value
      adjustments related to our own and counterparty non-performance risk. At
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, the cumulative adjustment for
      non-performance risk was a gain of $9 million and $177 million,
      respectively. 

(150) 

Fair
value hedges 

We use
interest rate and currency exchange derivatives to hedge the fair value effects
of interest rate and currency exchange rate changes on local and non-functional
currency denominated fixed-rate borrowings. For relationships designated as fair
value hedges, changes in fair value of the derivatives are recorded in earnings
along with offsetting adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged debt.
Through December 31, 2009, such adjustments increased the carrying amount of
debt outstanding by $3,675 million. The following table provides information
about the earnings effects of our fair value hedging relationships for the year
ended December 31, 2009. 

Year
      ended 

December
      31, 2009 

(In
      millions) 

Gain
      (loss) 

Gain
      (loss) 

on
      hedging 

on
      hedged 

Financial
      statement caption 

derivatives 

items 

Interest
      rate contracts 

Interest
      and other financial charges 

$ 

(5,194) 

$ 

4,998  

Currency
      exchange contracts 

Interest
      and other financial charges 

(1,106) 

1,093  

Fair value hedges resulted in $(209) million of ineffectiveness
of which $(225) million reflects amounts excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

Cash
flow hedges and net investment hedges in foreign operations 

We use
interest rate, currency exchange and commodity derivatives to reduce the
variability of expected future cash flows associated with variable rate
borrowings and commercial purchase and sale transactions, including commodities.
For derivatives that are designated in a cash flow hedging relationship, the
effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is reported as a
component of AOCI and reclassified into earnings contemporaneously with the
earnings effects of the hedged transaction. Earnings effects of the derivative
and the hedged item are reported in the same caption in the Statement of
Earnings. Hedge ineffectiveness and components of changes in fair value of the
derivative that are excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized
in earnings each reporting period. 

We use
currency exchange derivatives to protect our net investments in global
operations conducted in non-U.S. dollar currencies. For derivatives that are
designated as hedges of net investment in a foreign operation, we assess
effectiveness based on changes in spot currency exchange rates. Changes in spot
rates on the derivative are recorded as a component of AOCI until such time as
the foreign entity is substantially liquidated or sold. The change in fair value
of the forward points, which reflects the interest rate differential between the
two countries on the derivative, are excluded from the effectiveness assessment
and are recorded currently in earnings. 

The
following table provides information about the amounts recorded in the other
comprehensive income component within shareowners  equity at December 31, 2009,
as well as the amounts recorded in each caption in the Statement of Earnings
when derivative amounts are reclassified out of other comprehensive income
related to our cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. 

(151) 

Gain
      (loss) 

reclassified 

(In
      millions) 

Gain
      (loss) 

from
      AOCI 

recognized 

into 

Year
      ended December 31, 2009 

in
      OCI 

Financial
      statement caption 

earnings 

Cash
      flow hedges 

Interest
      rate contracts 

$ 

(854) 

Interest
      and other financial charges 

$ 

(2,055) 

GECS
      revenues from services 

8  

Currency
      exchange contracts 

2,579  

Interest
      and other financial charges 

1,183  

Other
      costs and expenses 

(167) 

GECS
      revenues from services 

(119) 

Sales
      of goods and services 

76  

Other
      income 

(1) 

Commodity
      contracts 

(5) 

Other
      costs and expenses 

(5) 

Total 

$ 

1,720  

$ 

(1,080) 

Gain
      (loss) 

Gain
      (loss) 

recognized 

reclassified 

in
      CTA 

from
      CTA 

Net
      investment hedges 

Currency
      exchange contracts 

$ 

(6,240) 

GECS
      revenues from services 

$ 

(84) 

Of the total pre-tax amount recorded in AOCI, $2,587 million
related to cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions of which we expect to
transfer $1,402 million to earnings as an expense in the next 12 months
contemporaneously with the earnings effects of the related forecasted
transactions. In 2009, we recognized insignificant gains and losses related to
hedged forecasted transactions and firm commitments that did not occur by the
end of the originally specified period. At December 31, 2009, the maximum term
of derivative instruments that hedge forecasted transactions was 26 years and
related to hedges of anticipated interest payments associated with external
debt.  

For cash
flow hedges, the amount of ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship and
amount of the changes in fair value of the derivative that are not included in
the measurement of ineffectiveness are both reflected in earnings each reporting
period. These amounts totaled $49 million, of which $(18) million represents
amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for the year ended
December 31, 2009, and primarily appear in "GECS revenues from services."
Ineffectiveness from net investment hedges was $(899) million for the year ended
December 31, 2009, which primarily related to changes in value of the forward
points. These amounts appear in the  Interest and other financial charges 
caption in the Statement of Earnings. 

Free-standing
derivatives 

Changes
in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are recorded
in earnings each period. As discussed above, these derivatives are typically
entered into as economic hedges of changes in interest rates, currency exchange
rates, commodity prices and other risks. Gains or losses related to the
derivative are recorded in predefined captions in the Statement of Earnings,
typically  GECS revenues from services  or  Other income,  based on our
accounting policy. In general, the earnings effects of the item that represent
the economic risk exposure are recorded in the same caption as the derivative.
Gains for 2009 on derivatives not designated as hedges were $1,018 million and
related to interest rate contracts of $208 million, currency exchange contracts
of $499 million, and commodity derivatives and other of $311 million. The vast
majority of the $1,018 million was offset by the earnings effects from the
underlying items that were economically hedged. 

(152) 

Counterparty credit risk  

Fair
values of our derivatives can change significantly from period to period based
on, among other factors, market movements and changes in our
positions.  Accordingly, we actively monitor these exposures and take
appropriate actions in response.  We manage counterparty credit risk
(the risk that counterparties will default and not make payments to us according
to the terms of our standard master agreements) on an individual counterparty
basis. Where we have agreed to netting of derivative exposures with a
counterparty, we offset our exposures with that counterparty and apply the value
of collateral posted to us to determine the exposure. When net exposure to a
counterparty, based on the current market values of agreements and collateral,
exceeds credit exposure limits (see following table), we typically take action
to reduce such exposures. These actions may include prohibiting additional
transactions with the counterparty, requiring additional collateral from the
counterparty (as described below) and terminating or restructuring
transactions. 

As
discussed above, we have provisions in certain of our master agreements that
require counterparties to post collateral (typically, cash or U.S. Treasuries)
when our receivable due from the counterparty, measured at current market value,
exceeds a specified limit. At December 31, 2009, our exposure to counterparties,
net of collateral we hold, was $1,196 million.  The fair value of such
collateral was $8,454 million, of which $2,387 million was cash and $6,067
million was in the form of securities held by a custodian for our benefit. Under
certain of these same agreements, we post collateral to our counterparties for
our derivative obligations, the fair value of which was $1,855 million at
December 31, 2009. 

Following
is GECS policy relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure
limits to counterparties. 

Counterparty
      Credit Criteria 

Credit
      rating 

Moody's 

S P 

Foreign
      exchange forwards (less than one year) 

P-1 

A-1 

All
      derivatives between one and five years 

Aa3 

(a) 

AA- 

(a) 

All
      derivatives greater than five years 

Aaa 

(a) 

AAA 

(a) 

(a)  

Counterparties
      that have an obligation to provide collateral to cover credit exposure in
      accordance with a credit support agreement typically have a minimum A3/A-
      rating. 

Exposure
      Limits 

(In
      millions) 

Minimum
      rating 

Exposure(a) 

With
      collateral 

Without
      collateral 

Moody's 

S P 

arrangements 

arrangements 

Aaa 

AAA 

$ 

100  

$ 

75  

Aa3 

AA- 

50  

50  

A3 

A- 

5  

(a)  

For
      derivatives with exposures less than one year, counterparties are
      permitted to have unsecured exposure up to $150 million with a minimum
      rating of A-1/P-1. Exposure to a counterparty is determined net of
      collateral. 

Additionally,
our standard master agreements typically contain mutual downgrade provisions
that provide the ability of each party to require termination if the long-term
credit rating of the counterparty were to fall below A-/A3. In certain of these
master agreements, each party also has the ability to require termination if the
short-term rating of the counterparty were to fall below A-1/P-1. The net amount
relating to our derivative liability of $3,657 million subject to these
provisions, after consideration of collateral posted by us, was $1,281 million
at December 31, 2009. 

(153) 

Support
of customer derivatives 

We do
not sell protection under credit default swaps; however, as part of our risk
management services, we provide certain support agreements to third-party
financial institutions providing plain vanilla interest rate derivatives to our
customers in connection with variable rate loans we have extended to them. The
underwriting risk to our customers inherent in these arrangements, together with
the related loans, is essentially similar to that of a fixed rate loan. Under
these arrangements, the customer's obligation to us is secured, usually by the
asset being purchased or financed, or by other assets of the customer. In
addition, these arrangements are underwritten to provide for collateral value
that exceeds the combination of the loan amount and the initial expected future
exposure of the derivative. These support arrangements mature on the same date
as the related financing arrangements or transactions and are across a broad
spectrum of diversified industries and companies. The fair value of such support
agreements was $24 million at December 31, 2009. Because we are supporting the
performance of the customer under these arrangements, our exposure to loss at
any point in time is limited to the fair value of the customer s derivative
contracts that are in a liability position. The aggregate fair value of customer
derivative contracts in a liability position at December 31, 2009, was $260
million before consideration of any offsetting effect of collateral. At December
31, 2009, collateral value was sufficient to cover the loan amount and the fair
value of the customer s derivative, in the event we had been called upon to
perform under the derivative. If we assumed that, on January 1, 2010, interest
rates moved unfavorably by 100 basis points across the yield curve (a  parallel
shift  in that curve), the effect on the fair value of such contracts, without
considering any potential offset of the underlying collateral, would have been
an increase of $120 million. Given our underwriting criteria, we believe that
the likelihood that we will be required to perform under these arrangements is
remote. 

NOTE 23. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

We
securitize financial assets and arrange other forms of asset-backed financing in
the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner returns. The
securitization transactions we engage in are similar to those used by many
financial institutions. Beyond improving returns, these securitization
transactions serve as alternative funding sources for a variety of diversified
lending and securities transactions. Historically, we have used both
GE-supported and third-party Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) to execute
off-balance sheet securitization transactions funded in the commercial paper and
term markets. The largest single category of VIEs that we are involved with are
Qualifying Special Purpose Entities (QSPEs), which have specific characteristics
that exclude them from the scope of consolidation standards. Investors in these
entities only have recourse to the assets owned by the entity and not to our
general credit, unless noted below. We do not have implicit support arrangements
with any VIE or QSPE. We did not provide non-contractual support for previously
transferred financing receivables to any VIE or QSPE in 2009 or
2008. 

Variable
Interest Entities 

When
evaluating whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, and must therefore
consolidate the entity, we perform a qualitative analysis that considers the
design of the VIE, the nature of our involvement and the variable interests held
by other parties. If that evaluation is inconclusive as to which party absorbs a
majority of the entity s expected losses or residual returns, a quantitative
analysis is performed to determine who is the primary beneficiary. 

In 2009,
the FASB issued ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17 amendments to ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing , and
ASC 810,  Consolidation ,
respectively, which are effective for us on January 1, 2010. ASU 2009-16 will
eliminate the QSPE concept, and ASU 2009-17 will require that all such entities
be evaluated for consolidation as VIEs, which will result in our consolidating
substantially all of our former QSPEs. Upon adoption we will record assets and
liabilities of these entities at carrying amounts consistent with what they
would have been if they had always been consolidated, which will require the
reversal of a portion of previously recognized securitization gains as a
cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings. 

(154) 

Consolidated
Variable Interest Entities 

On July
1, 2003 and January 1, 2004, we were required, as a result of amendments to U.S.
GAAP, to consolidate certain VIEs with aggregate assets and liabilities of $54.0
billion and $52.6 billion respectively, which are further described below. At
December 31, 2009, assets and liabilities of those VIEs, and additional VIEs
consolidated as a result of subsequent acquisitions of financial companies,
totaled $16,994 million and $15,231 million, respectively (at December 31, 2008,
assets and liabilities were $26,865 million and $21,428 million,
respectively). 

The
consolidated VIEs included in our financial statements include the
following: 

Securitization
      entities that hold financing receivables and other financial assets. Since
      they were consolidated in 2003, these assets have continued to run off;
      totaled $2,608 million at December 31, 2009; and are primarily included in
      Note 6 ($4,000 million in 2008). There has been no significant difference
      between the performance of these financing receivables and our on-book
      receivables on a blended basis. The liabilities of these securitization
      entities, which consist primarily of commercial paper, totaled $2,504
      million at December 31, 2009, and are included in Note 10 ($3,868 million
      in 2008). Contractually the cash flows from these financing receivables
      must first be used to pay down outstanding commercial paper and interest
      thereon as well as other expenses of the entity. Excess cash flows are
      available to GE. The creditors of these entities have no claim on the
      other assets of GE. 

If
      the short-term credit rating of GE Capital or these entities were reduced
      below A 1/P 1, we would be required to provide substitute liquidity for
      those entities or provide funds to retire the outstanding commercial
      paper. The maximum net amount that we would be required to provide in the
      event of such a downgrade is determined by contract, and totaled $2,497
      million at December 31, 2009. The borrowings of these entities are
      reflected in our Statement of Financial
  Position. 

If
      the long-term credit rating of GE Capital were to fall below AA-/Aa3 or
      its short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GE Capital would
      be required to provide approximately $2,383 million to such entities as of
      December 31, 2009 pursuant to letters of credit issued by GE Capital. To
      the extent that the entities  liabilities exceed the ultimate value of the
      proceeds from the sale of their assets and the amount drawn under the
      letters of credit, GE Capital could be required to provide such excess
      amount. As the borrowings of these entities are already reflected in our
      consolidated Statement of Financial Position, there would be no change in
      our debt if this were to occur. As of December 31, 2009, the value of
      these entities  liabilities was $8,519 million and the fair value of their
      assets was $7,345 million (which included unrealized losses on investment
      securities of $1,448 million). With respect to these investment
      securities, we intend to hold them at least until such time as their
      individual fair values exceed their amortized cost and we have the ability
      to hold all such debt securities until
maturity. 

The
remaining assets ($7,040 million) and liabilities ($4,208 million) of
consolidated VIEs are primarily the result of transactions by acquired entities;
asset-backed financing involving commercial real estate and equipment collateral
and on-balance sheet securitizations by GE. We have no recourse arrangements
with these entities. 

(155) 

Unconsolidated
Variable Interest Entities 

Our
involvement with unconsolidated VIEs consists of the following activities:
assisting in the formation and financing of an entity, providing recourse and/or
liquidity support, servicing the assets and receiving variable fees for services
provided. The classification in our financial statements of our variable
interests in these entities depends on the nature of the entity. As described
below, our retained interests in securitization-related VIEs and QSPEs is
reported in financing receivables or investment securities depending on its
legal form. Variable interests in partnerships and corporate entities would be
classified as either equity method or cost method investments. 

In the
ordinary course of business, we make investments in entities in which we are not
the primary beneficiary, but may hold a variable interest such as limited
partner equity interests or mezzanine debt investment. These investments totaled
$9,680 million at year-end 2009 and are classified in two captions in our
financial statements:  All other assets  for investments accounted for under the
equity method, and  GECS financing receivables  for debt financing provided to
these entities. At December 31, 2009,  All other assets  totaled $8,911 million
($2,919 million at December 31, 2008) and financing receivables, included in
Note 6, totaled $769 million ($1,045 million at December 31, 2008). In addition
to our existing investments, we have contractual obligations to fund additional
investments in the unconsolidated VIEs of $1,396 million ($1,159 million at
December 31, 2008). Together, these represent our maximum exposure to loss if
the assets of the unconsolidated VIEs were to have no value. 

The
largest unconsolidated VIE with which we are involved is PTL, which is a rental
truck leasing joint venture. The total consolidated assets and liabilities of
PTL at December 31, 2008, were $7,444 million and $1,339 million,
respectively.  In the first quarter of 2009, we sold a 1% limited
partnership interest in PTL, a previously consolidated VIE, to Penske Truck
Leasing Corporation, the general partner of PTL, whose majority shareowner is a
member of GE s Board of Directors. The disposition of the shares, coupled with
our resulting minority position on the PTL advisory committee and related
changes in our contractual rights, resulted in the deconsolidation of PTL. We
recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $296 million, including a gain on the
remeasurement of our retained investment of $189 million. The measurement of the
fair value of our retained investment in PTL was based on a methodology that
incorporated both discounted cash flow information and market data. In applying
this methodology, we utilized different sources of information, including actual
operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market
observable pricing multiples of similar businesses. The resulting fair value
reflected our position as a noncontrolling shareowner at the conclusion of the
transaction. At December 31, 2009, our remaining investment in PTL of $5,751
million comprised a 49.9% partnership interest of $923 million and loans and
advances of $4,828 million. 

Other
than those entities described above, we also hold passive investments in RMBS,
CMBS and asset-backed securities issued by entities that may be either VIEs or
QSPEs. Such investments were, by design, investment grade at issuance and held
by a diverse group of investors. As we have no formal involvement in such
entities beyond our investment, we believe that the likelihood is remote that we
would be required to consolidate them. Further information about such
investments is provided in Note 3. 

Securitization
Activities 

We
transfer assets to QSPEs in the ordinary course of business as part of our
ongoing securitization activities. In our securitization transactions, we
transfer assets to a QSPE and receive a combination of cash and retained
interests in the assets transferred. The QSPE sells beneficial interests in the
assets transferred to third-party investors, to fund the purchase of the
assets. 

The
financing receivables in our QSPEs have similar risks and characteristics to our
on-book financing receivables and were underwritten to the same standard.
Accordingly, the performance of these assets has been similar to our on-book
financing receivables; however, the blended performance of the pools of
receivables in our QSPEs reflects the eligibility screening requirements that we
apply to determine which receivables are selected for sale. Therefore, the
blended performance can differ from the on-book performance. 

(156) 

When we
securitize financing receivables we retain interests in the transferred
receivables in two forms: a seller s interest in the assets of the QSPE, which
we classify as financing receivables, and subordinated interests in the assets
of the QSPE, which we classify as investment securities. In certain credit card
receivables trusts, we are required to maintain minimum free equity
(subordinated interest) of 4% or 7% depending on the credit rating of GE
Capital. 

Financing
receivables transferred to securitization entities that remained outstanding and
our retained interests in those financing receivables at December 31, 2009 and
2008 follows. 

(a)  

Included
      inventory floorplan receivables. 

(c) 

As
      permitted by the terms of the applicable trust documents, in the second
      and third quarters of 2009, we transferred $268 million of floorplan
      financing receivables to the GE Dealer Floorplan Master Note Trust and
      $328 million of credit card receivables to the GE Capital Credit Card
      Master Note Trust in exchange for additional subordinated interests. These
      actions had the effect of maintaining the AAA ratings of certain
      securities issued by these
entities. 

(d) 

Uncertificated
      seller s interests. 

Retained Interests in Securitization
Transactions  

When we
transfer financing receivables, we determine the fair value of retained
interests received as part of the securitization transaction. Further
information about how fair value is determined is presented in Note 21. Retained
interests in securitized receivables that are classified as investment
securities are reported at fair value in each reporting period. These assets
decrease as cash is received on the underlying financing receivables. Retained
interests classified as financing receivables are accounted for in a similar
manner to our on-book financing receivables. 

(157) 

Key
assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained interests classified as
investment securities and the sensitivity of the current fair value to changes
in those assumptions related to all outstanding retained interests at December
31, 2009 and 2008 follow. 

(a)  

Based
      on weighted averages. 

(b) 

Represented
      a payment rate on credit card receivables, inventory financing receivables
      (included within equipment) and trade receivables (included within other
      assets). 

(158) 

Activity
related to retained interests classified as investment securities in our
consolidated financial statements follows. 

Derivative Activities  

In
connection with some securitization transactions, the QSPEs use derivatives to
manage interest rate risk between the assets they own and liabilities they
issue. In such instances, at the inception of the transaction, the QSPE will
enter into a derivative that generally requires the payment of a fixed rate of
interest to a counterparty in exchange for a floating rate of interest in order
to eliminate interest rate, and in certain instances, payment speed volatility.
In some cases, a GE entity is the counterparty to a QSPE's derivative; the fair
value of such derivatives was a net asset of $454 million and $752 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In such cases, a second derivative is
executed with a third party to minimize or eliminate the exposure created by the
first derivative. 

Servicing Activities  

As part
of a securitization transaction, we may provide servicing in exchange for a
market-based fee that is determined on principal balances. Where the fee does
not represent market-based compensation for these services, a servicing asset or
liability is recorded, as appropriate. The fair value of the servicing asset or
liability is subject to credit, prepayment and interest rate risk. Servicing
assets and liabilities are amortized to earnings in proportion to and over the
period of servicing activity. The amount of our servicing assets and liabilities
was insignificant at December 31, 2009 and 2008. We received servicing fees from
QSPEs of $608 million, $641 million and $566 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

When we
provide servicing we are contractually permitted to commingle cash collected
from customers on financing receivables sold to investors with our own cash
prior to payment to a QSPE provided our credit rating does not fall below levels
specified in each of our securitization agreements. Based on our current credit
rating we do not anticipate any restriction to commingling cash under these
arrangements. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, accounts payable included $5,007
million and $4,446 million, respectively, representing obligations to QSPEs for
collections received in our capacity as servicer from obligors of the
QSPEs. 

Included
in other GECS receivables at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $3,526 million and
$2,346 million, respectively, relating to amounts owed by QSPEs to GE,
principally for the purchase of financial assets. 

NOTE 24. COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES  

Commitments 

In our
Aviation business of Technology Infrastructure, we had committed to provide
financial assistance on $1,151 million of future customer acquisitions of
aircraft equipped with our engines, including commitments made to airlines in
2009 for future sales under our GE90 and GEnx engine campaigns. The GECAS
business of Capital Finance had placed multiple-year orders for various Boeing,
Airbus and other aircraft with list prices approximating $12,603 million and
secondary orders with airlines for used aircraft of approximately $2,165 million
at December 31, 2009. 

(159) 

At
December 31, 2009, NBC Universal had commitments to acquire film and television
programming, including U.S. television rights to future Olympic Games and
National Football League games, contractual commitments under various creative
talent arrangements and various other arrangements of $8,860 million,
substantially all of which requires payments through 2015. 

Product
Warranties 

We
provide for estimated product warranty expenses when we sell the related
products. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best
available information   mostly historical claims experience   claims costs
may differ from amounts provided. An analysis of changes in the liability for
product warranties follows. 

(a)  

Primarily
      related to Technology Infrastructure and Energy
      Infrastructure. 

Guarantees  

At
December 31, 2009, we were committed under the following guarantee arrangements
beyond those provided on behalf of QSPEs and VIEs. See Note 23. 

Credit Support.  We have
      provided $7,597 million of credit support on behalf of certain customers
      or associated companies, predominantly joint ventures and partnerships,
      using arrangements such as standby letters of credit and performance
      guarantees. These arrangements enable these customers and associated
      companies to execute transactions or obtain desired financing arrangements
      with third parties. Should the customer or associated company fail to
      perform under the terms of the transaction or financing arrangement, we
      would be required to perform on their behalf. Under most such
      arrangements, our guarantee is secured, usually by the asset being
      purchased or financed, or possibly by certain other assets of the customer
      or associated company. The length of these credit support arrangements
      parallels the length of the related financing arrangements or
      transactions. The liability for such credit support was $43 million for
      December 31, 2009. 

Indemnification
      Agreements.  These are agreements that require us to fund up to $353
      million under residual value guarantees on a variety of leased equipment.
      Under most of our residual value guarantees, our commitment is secured by
      the leased asset at December 31, 2009. The liability for these
      indemnification agreements was $15 million at December 31, 2009. We had
      $1,532 million of other indemnification commitments arising primarily from
      sales of businesses or assets. 

(160) 

Contingent Consideration.
       These are agreements to provide additional consideration in a
      business combination to the seller if contractually specified conditions
      related to the acquired entity are achieved. At December 31, 2009, we had
      total maximum exposure, excluding GE Money Japan, for future estimated
      payments of $58 million, of which none was earned and
    payable. 

In
      connection with the sale of GE Money Japan, we reduced the proceeds on the
      sale for estimated interest refund claims in excess of the statutory
      interest rate. Proceeds from the sale may be increased or decreased based
      on the actual claims experienced in accordance with terms specified in the
      agreement, and will not be adjusted unless total claims as calculated
      under the terms of the agreement exceed approximately $3,000 million.
      During the second quarter of 2009, we accrued $132 million, which
      represents the amount by which we expect claims to exceed those levels and
      is based on our historical and recent claims experience and the estimated
      future requests, taking into consideration the ability and likelihood of
      customers to make claims and other industry risk factors. Uncertainties
      around the status of laws and regulations and lack of certain information
      related to the individual customers make it difficult to develop a
      meaningful estimate of the aggregate possible claims exposure. We will
      continue to review our estimated exposure quarterly, and make adjustments
      when required. 

Our
guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business. We underwrite these
guarantees considering economic, liquidity and credit risk of the counterparty.
We believe that the likelihood is remote that any such arrangements could have a
significant adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity. We record liabilities for guarantees at estimated fair value,
generally the amount of the premium received, or if we do not receive a premium,
the amount based on appraisal, observed market values or discounted cash flows.
Any associated expected recoveries from third parties are recorded as other
receivables, not netted against the liabilities. 

At
December 31, 2009 and 2008, the likelihood that we will be called upon to
perform on these guarantees is remote. 

NOTE 25. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOWS INFORMATION  

Changes
in operating assets and liabilities are net of acquisitions and dispositions of
principal businesses. 

Amounts
reported in the  Payments for principal businesses purchased  line in the
Statement of Cash Flows is net of cash acquired and included debt assumed and
immediately repaid in acquisitions. 

Amounts
reported in the  All other operating activities  line in the Statement of Cash
Flows consists primarily of adjustments to current and noncurrent accruals and
deferrals of costs and expenses, adjustments for gains and losses on assets and
adjustments to assets. In 2009, GECS had non-cash transactions related to
foreclosed properties and repossessed assets totaling $1,364 million. In 2008,
GE received $300 million (12.7 million shares) worth of its shares in connection
with the disposition of NBC Universal s 57% interest in the Sundance Channel.
There were no significant non-cash transactions in 2007. 

(161) 

Certain
supplemental information related to GE and GECS cash flows is shown
below. 

(162) 

NOTE 26. INTERCOMPANY TRANSACTIONS  

Effects
of transactions between related companies are eliminated and consist primarily
of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer
receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and
material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased
between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS
by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft
purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various
investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. 

These
intercompany transactions are reported in the GE and GECS columns of our
financial statements, but are eliminated in deriving our consolidated financial
statements. Effects of these eliminations on our consolidated cash flows from
operating, investing and financing activities include the following. Net
decrease (increase) in GE customer receivables sold to GECS of $(39) million,
$90 million and $(255) million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from
operating and investing activities at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Capital contributions from GE to GECS of $9,500 million and $5,500
million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from investing and financing
activities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were no such
capital contributions at December 31, 2007. GECS dividends to GE of $2,351
million and $7,291 million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from
operating and financing activities at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
There were no such dividends at December 31, 2009. Eliminations of intercompany
borrowings (includes GE investment in GECS short-term borrowings, such as
commercial paper) of $715 million, $(471) million and $2,049 million have been
eliminated from financing activities at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Other reclassifications and eliminations of $623 million, $(188)
million, and $(828) million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from
operating activities and $(699) million, $(320) million and $1,202 million have
been eliminated from consolidated cash from investing activities at December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

As
identified in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
March 31, 2009, in the GE and GECS columns of our Statement of Cash Flows for
the year ended December 31, 2008, we properly reported a $5,500 million capital
contribution from GE to GECS as an investing use of cash by GE (included in the
caption  All other investing activities ) and a financing source of cash to GECS
(included in the caption  All other financing activities ). In our 2008 Form
10-K, this intercompany transaction was not eliminated in deriving our
consolidated cash flows. As a result, our consolidated cash used for investing
activities and our consolidated cash from financing activities were both
overstated by the amount of the capital contribution. This item had no effect on
our consolidated cash from operating activities or total consolidated cash
flows, nor did it affect our financial position or results of operations. We
have corrected this immaterial item in our current report on Form
10-K. 

NOTE 27. OPERATING SEGMENTS  

Basis
for presentation 

Our
operating businesses are organized based on the nature of markets and customers.
Segment accounting policies are the same as described in Note 1. Segment results
for our financial services businesses reflect the discrete tax effect of
transactions, but the intraperiod tax allocation is reflected outside of the
segment unless otherwise noted in segment results. 

Effects
of transactions between related companies are eliminated and consist primarily
of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer
receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and
material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased
between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS
by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft
purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various
investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. 

(163) 

Effective
January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better align our Consumer  
Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization,
we created a new segment called Home   Business Solutions that includes the
Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous Consumer   Industrial
segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business
of our previous Enterprise Solutions business (formerly within our Technology
Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial business of our previous
Consumer   Industrial segment and the Sensing   Inspection Technologies
and Digital Energy businesses of Enterprise Solutions are now part of the Energy
business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The Security business of
Enterprise Solutions will be reported in Corporate Items and Eliminations
pending its expected sale. Also, effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance
segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the continuing operations of
General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the Transportation Financial
Services business, previously reported in GECAS, will be included in CLL and our
Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, will be included in
CLL. 

Results
for 2009 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our
business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010 reorganization described
above. 

A
description of our operating segments as of December 31, 2009, can be found
below, and details of segment profit by operating segment can be found in the
Summary of Operating Segments table in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Energy Infrastructure  

Power
plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and
maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative
turbines, generators, combined cycle systems, controls and related services,
including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long-term
maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial
customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind turbines and solar
technology. Water treatment services and equipment include specialty chemical
treatment programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and
desalination processes. 

The Oil
  Gas business sells surface and subsea drilling and production systems
including blowout preventors, equipment for floating production platforms,
compressors, turbines, turboexpanders and high pressure reactors to national,
international and independent oil and gas companies. Services include equipment
overhauls and upgrades, pipeline inspection and integrity services, remote
monitoring and diagnostic, and contractual service agreements. 

Technology Infrastructure  

Aviation
products and services include jet engines, aerospace systems and equipment,
replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of
commercial aircraft; for a wide variety of military aircraft, includ ing
fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; for marine appli cations; and
for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to
airframe manufacturers, airlines and government agencies. 

Healthcare
products include diagnostic imaging systems such as magnetic resonance (MR),
computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scanners, X-ray,
nuclear imaging and ultrasound. Healthcare manufactured technologies include
patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, bone densitometry, anesthesiology,
and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Related services,
including equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies and customer
productivity services. Products also include diagnostic imaging agents used in
medical scanning procedures, products used in the purification of
biopharmaceuticals, and tools for pro tein and cellular analysis for
pharmaceutical and academic research. Products and services are sold worldwide
to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies,
and to the life science research market. 

Transportation
products and maintenance services include diesel electric locomotives, transit
propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off-highway vehicles, gearing
technology for wind turbines, drill motors, marine and stationary power
generation, and railway signaling and office systems. 

(164) 

Enterprise
Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure,
moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection
equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.
Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies,
including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring
equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. In addition, it
provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality
products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks
and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant
automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including
controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator
interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions.
Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential,
commercial and industrial end-users, including utilities, original equipment
manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and
transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and
sold in global markets. 

NBC Universal  

Principal
businesses are the broadcast of U.S. network television, production and
distribution of films and television programs, operation of television stations,
operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world, operation of
theme parks, and investment and programming activities in digital media and the
Internet. 

Capital Finance  

CLL
products include loans, leases and other financial services to customers,
includ ing manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of
equipment and major capital assets. These assets include indus trial-related
facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in
many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation,
media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. 

Consumer
offers a range of financial products including private-label credit cards;
personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt
consolidation; home equity loans; deposits and other savings products; and small
and medium enterprise lending on a global basis. 

Real
Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions and
finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and
renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels,
parking facilities and industrial properties. 

Energy
Financial Services offers financial products to the global energy and water
industries including structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing,
product finance, and broad-based commercial finance. 

GECAS
provides financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners,
lend ers and investors, including leases, and secured loans on commercial
passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing
services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt
financing. 

Consumer   Industrial  

Products
include major appliances and related services for products such as
refrig erators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers,
clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air condition ers and
residential water system products. These products are distributed both to retail
outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to
building contractors and distributors for new installations. Lighting products
include a wide variety of lamps and lighting fixtures, including light-emitting
diodes. Electrical equipment and control products include lighting and power
panels, switchgear, and circuit breakers. Products and services are sold in
North America and in global markets under various GE and private-label
brands. 

(165) 

(a)   

Revenues of GE businesses include
      income from sales of goods and services to customers and other
      income.  

(b)  

Sales from one component to
      another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling
      prices.  

Revenues
from customers located in the United States were $72,499 million, $85,301
million and $86,247 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenues from
customers located outside the United States were $84,284 million, $97,214
million and $86,241 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

(a)   

Assets of discontinued operations
      are included in Corporate items and eliminations for all periods
      presented.  

(b) 

Total
      assets of the Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, Capital
      Finance and Consumer   Industrial operating segments at December 31,
      2009, include investment in and advances to associated companies of $622
      million, $638 million, $25,374 million and $402 million, respectively.
      Investments in and advances to associated companies contributed
      approximately $1 million, $263 million, $443 million, $1,059 million and
      $(40) million to segment pre-tax income of Energy Infrastructure,
      Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer
        Industrial operating segments, respectively, for the year ended
      December 31, 2009. Aggregate summarized financial information for
      significant associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest
      included: total assets of $149,889 million, primarily financing
      receivables of $82,956 million; total liabilities of $126,005 million,
      primarily bank deposits of $69,573 million; revenues totaling $28,135
      million; and net earnings totaling $4,539
  million. 

(c) 

Additions
      to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal
      businesses purchased. 

(166) 

(a)   

Included amounts for Energy
      Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Consumer
        Industrial for which our measure of segment profit excludes interest
      and other financial charges and income
  taxes.  

Property,
plant and equipment   net associated with operations based in the United States
were $19,798 million, $27,667 million and $27,188 million at year-end 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. Property, plant and equipment   net associated with
operations based outside the United States were $49,414 million, $50,863 million
and $50,700 million at year-end 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

NOTE 28. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)  

For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services
less costs of goods and services sold.  

Earnings-per-share
amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing
operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a
result, the sum of each quarter s per-share amount may not equal the total
per-share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per-share amounts from
continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total
per-share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters.  

(167) 

Item
9.  Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure.  

Not
applicable. 

Item
9A. Controls and Procedures .  

Under
the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we
evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting and concluded that (i) our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2009, and (ii) no change in
internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended
December 31, 2009, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting. 

Management s
annual report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of our
independent registered public accounting firm appears in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. 

Item
9B.  Other Information.  

Not
applicable. 

Part
III 

Item
10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance.  

Executive
Officers of the Registrant (As of February 1, 2010) 

Date
      assumed 

Executive 

Name 

Position 

Age 

Officer
      Position 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chairman
      of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

53  

January
      1997 

Kathryn
      A. Cassidy 

Senior
      Vice President and GE Treasurer 

55  

March
      2003 

Pamela
      Daley 

Senior
      Vice President, Corporate Business Development 

57  

July
      2004 

Brackett
      B. Denniston III 

Senior
      Vice President and General Counsel 

62  

February
      2004 

John
      Krenicki, Jr. 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company; President   

CEO,
      GE Energy Infrastructure 

47  

July
      2008 

John
      F. Lynch 

Senior
      Vice President, Human Resources 

57  

January
      2007 

Jamie
      S. Miller 

Vice
      President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 

41  

April
      2008 

Michael
      A. Neal 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company; 

Chairman,
      GE Capital Services, Inc. 

56  

September
      2002 

John
      G. Rice 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company; President   

CEO,
      GE Technology Infrastructure 

53  

September
      1997 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Vice
      Chairman of General Electric Company and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

51  

January
      1999 

(168) 

All
Executive Officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term
which continues until the Board meeting immediately preceding the next annual
statutory meeting of shareowners, and thereafter are elected for one-year terms
or until their successors have been elected. All Executive Officers have been
executives of General Electric Company for the last five years except for Ms.
Miller. Prior to joining GE in April 2008, Ms. Miller served as the Senior Vice
President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of Wellpoint, Inc. Prior to
joining Wellpoint in August 2007, Ms. Miller served as a partner with
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. From May 2004 to August 2005, she was Vice
President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at Genworth
Financial (formerly GE Financial Assurance) having joined in 2003 as
Controller. 

The
remaining information called for by this item is incorporated by reference to
 Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance  and  Board of Directors and
Committees  in our definitive proxy statement for our 2010 Annual Meeting of
Shareowners to be held April 28, 2010, which will be filed within 120 days of
the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (the 2010 Proxy
Statement). 

Item
11.  Executive Compensation.  

Incorporated
by reference to  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee
Report,   2009 Summary Compensation Table,   2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards, 
 2009 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,   2009 Option Exercises and
Stock Vested,   2009 Pension Benefits,   2009 Nonqualified Deferred
Compensation,   Potential Payments Upon Termination  and  2009 Non-management
Directors  Compensation  in the 2010 Proxy Statement. 

Item
12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Related Stockholder Matters.  

Incorporated
by reference to  Information on Stock Ownership  in the 2010 Proxy
Statement. 

      The
remaining information called for by this item relating to  Securities Authorized
for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans  is provided in Note 16 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. 

Item
13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence.  

Incorporated
by reference to  Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  in the
2010 Proxy Statement. 

Item
14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services.  

Incorporated
by reference to  Independent Auditor  in the 2010 Proxy Statement. 

(169) 

Part
IV 

Item
15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.  

(a)1.
Financial Statements 

Included
in Part II of this report: 

Statement
of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 

      Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 

      Statement
of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 and 2008 

      Statement
of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 

      Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

      Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

      Other
financial information: 

      Summary
of Operating Segments 

      Notes to
consolidated financial statements 

      Operating
segment information 

      Geographic
segment information 

      Operations
by quarter (unaudited) 

(a)2.
Financial Statement Schedules 

The
schedules listed in Reg. 210.5-04 have been omitted because they are not
applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or notes thereto. 

(a)3.
Exhibit Index 

(170) 

(171) 

(172) 

(m) 

General
      Electric Company 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 10.1 of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated
      April 27, 2007 (Commission file number 001-00035)). 

(n) 

Form
      of Agreement for Stock Option Grants to Executive Officers under the
      General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan, as amended January
      1, 2009 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to General Electric's
      Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 001-00035) for the
      fiscal year ended December 31, 2008). 

(o) 

Form
      of Agreement for Annual Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers
      under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan, as
      amended January 1, 2009 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(o) to
      General Electric's Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number
      001-00035) for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2008). 

(p) 

Form
      of Agreement for Periodic Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Executive
      Officers under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan
      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of General Electric s Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file number
      001-00035)). 

(q) 

Form
      of Agreement for Long Term Performance Award Grants to Executive Officers
      under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan
      (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of General Electric s Current
      Report on Form 8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file number
      001-00035)). 

(r) 

Form
      of Agreement for Performance Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers under
      the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan (Incorporated
      by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of General Electric s Current Report on Form
      8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file
      number 001-00035)). 

(s) 

First
      Restatement of the General Electric International Employee Stock Purchase
      Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to General Electric's
      Registration Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-163106 (Commission file
      number 001-00035)). 

(t) 

Stock
      Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 2009 between General Electric
      Company and Vivendi S.A.* 

(u) 

Commitment
      Letter dated as of December 3, 2009 among NBC Universal, Inc., J.P. Morgan
      Securities Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners
      L.P., Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC,
      Bank of America, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets
Inc.* 

(v) 

Amended
      and Restated Income Maintenance Agreement, dated October 29, 2009, between
      the Registrant and General Electric Capital Corporation (Incorporated by
      reference to Exhibit 10(b) to General Electric Capital Corporation's
      Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009
      (Commission file number 001-06461)). 

(11) 

Statement
      re Computation of Per Share Earnings.** 

12(a) 

Computation
      of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.* 

12(b) 

Computation
      of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock
      Dividends.* 

(21) 

Subsidiaries
      of Registrant.* 

(23) 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.* 

(24) 

Power
      of Attorney.* 

(173) 

31(a) 

Certification
      Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934, as amended. * 

31(b) 

Certification
      Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange
      Act of 1934, as amended.* 

(32) 

Certification
      Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.* 

99(a)  

Eligible
      Entity Designation Agreement among the Federal Deposit Insurance
      Corporation, General Electric Capital Corporation and General Electric
      Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99(a) to General Electric's
      Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 001-00035) for the
      fiscal year ended December 31, 2008). 

99(b)  

Securities
      Purchase Agreement, dated October 10, 2008, between General Electric
      Company and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
      10(a) of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20,
      2008 (Commission file number 001-00035)). 

99(c)  

Form
      of letter agreement between General Electric Company and each of Jeffrey
      R. Immelt and Keith S. Sherin (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b)
      of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 2008
      (Commission file number 001-00035)). 

99(d)  

Undertaking
      for Inclusion in Registration Statements on Form S-8 of General Electric
      Company (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99(b) to General Electric
      Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 001-00035) for the
      fiscal year ended December 31, 1992). 

99(e)  

Computation
      of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges (Incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 12(a) to General Electric Capital Corporation's Annual Report on
      Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (Commission file
      number 001-06461)). 

(101) 

The
      following materials from General Electric Company's Annual Report on Form
      10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible
      Business Reporting Language); (i) Statement of Earnings for the years
      ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, (ii) Consolidated Statement of
      Changes in Shareowners' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008
      and 2007, (iii) Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 and
      2008, (iv) Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009,
      2008 and 2007, and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
      tagged as blocks of text.*** 

* 

Filed
      electronically herewith. 

**  

Information
      required to be presented in Exhibit 11 is provided in Note 20 to the
      consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report in accordance
      with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting
      Standards Codification 260,  Earnings Per
      Share . 

*** 

Pursuant
      to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101
      hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or
      prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of
      1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the
      Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not
      subject to liability under those sections. 

(174) 

Signatures  

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, and in the capacities indicated, thereunto duly authorized in the
Town of Fairfield and State of Connecticut on the 19 th  day
of February 2010. 

General
      Electric Company 

                (Registrant) 

By 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

                Vice
      Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 

                (Principal
      Financial Officer) 

(175) 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated. 

Signer  

Title  

Date  

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Principal
      Financial Officer 

February
      19, 2010 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

                Vice
      Chairman and 

                Chief
      Financial Officer 

/s/
      Jamie S. Miller 

Principal
      Accounting Officer 

February
      19, 2010 

Jamie
      S. Miller 

                Vice
      President and Controller 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt* 

Chairman
      of the Board of Directors 

                (Principal
      Executive Officer) 

W.
      Geoffrey Beattie* 

Director 

James
      I. Cash, Jr.* 

Director 

William
      M. Castell* 

Director 

Ann
      M. Fudge* 

Director 

Susan
      Hockfield* 

Director 

Andrea
      Jung* 

Director 

Alan
      G. Lafley* 

Director 

Robert
      W. Lane* 

Director 

Ralph
      S. Larsen* 

Director 

Rochelle
      B. Lazarus* 

Director 

James
      J. Mulva* 

Director 

Sam
      Nunn* 

Director 

Roger
      S. Penske* 

Director 

Robert
      J. Swieringa* 

Director 

Douglas
      A. Warner III* 

Director 

A
      majority of the Board of Directors 

*By 

/s/
      Michael R. McAlevey 

Michael
      R. McAlevey 

                Attorney-in-fact 

                February
      19, 2010 

(176) 

<EX-2.A>
 2
 ex2a.htm

Unassociated Document 

Exhibit
2(a)  

EXECUTION
COPY  

MASTER
AGREEMENT  

dated
as of December 3, 2009 

among  

GENERAL
ELECTRIC COMPANY,  

NBC
UNIVERSAL, INC.,  

COMCAST
CORPORATION 

and  

NAVY,
LLC 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

i 

ii 

iii 

iv 

EXHIBITS  

Exhibit
      A 

Definitions 

Exhibit
      B-1 

NBCU
      Employee Matters Agreement 

Exhibit
      B-2 

Comcast
      Employee Matters Agreement 

Exhibit
      C-1 

Form
      of GE Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement 

Exhibit
      C-2 

Form
      of Comcast Intellectual Property Cross License
Agreement 

Exhibit
      D 

Form
      of Newco Operating Agreement 

Exhibit
      E 

Form
      of Navy Holdco 2 Agreement 

Exhibit
      F-1 

Form
      of GE Note 

Exhibit
      F-2 

Form
      of Comcast Note 

Exhibit
      G-1 

Form
      of GE Transition Services Agreement 

Exhibit
      G-2 

Form
      of Comcast Services Agreement 

Exhibit
      H 

Lease
      Term Sheet 

Exhibit
      I 

Preliminary
      Initial Strategic Plan 

Exhibit
      J 

Newco
      Executive Compensation Summary of Principles 

v 

This
MASTER AGREEMENT, dated as of December 3, 2009, is made by and among General
Electric Company, a New York corporation (  GE  ), NBC Universal, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (  NBCU  ), Comcast Corporation, a
Pennsylvania corporation (  Comcast  ), and Navy, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company (  Newco  ).  Terms used
but not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given to them in  Article 1 . 

PRELIMINARY
STATEMENTS 

A.           NBCU,
directly and through its Subsidiaries, is engaged in the NBCU Businesses and
Comcast, directly and through certain of its Subsidiaries, is engaged in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

B.           National
Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Navy Holdco 1  ), is a wholly
owned subsidiary of GE that owns all of the outstanding capital stock of Navy
Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Navy Holdco 2  ), and Navy
Holdco 2 owns all of the membership interests of Newco. 

C.           GE
and Comcast wish to combine the NBCU Businesses and Contributed Comcast
Businesses and, in connection therewith, to contribute such businesses to, and
jointly own, Newco, which will engage in the Business. 

D.           In
order to satisfy the foregoing objectives, the parties hereto desire to take the
following actions at or immediately prior to the Closing: 

(1)           Navy
Holdco 1 will, and GE will cause Navy Holdco 1 to, acquire all of the
outstanding NBCU Shares that it does not already own; 

(2)           NBCU
shall complete the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, as
applicable; 

(3)           Immediately
following the completion of the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, as
applicable, NBCU shall distribute the net proceeds thereof to its stockholder(s)
in proportion to their respective ownership interests in NBCU in accordance with
Section 2.06(c); 

(4)           Navy
Holdco 1 will, and GE will cause Navy Holdco 1 to, contribute all of the
outstanding NBCU Shares to Navy Holdco 2; 

(5)           NBCU
will convert from a Delaware corporation to a Delaware limited liability company
that is treated as an entity disregarded as separate from Navy Holdco 2 for U.S.
federal income tax purposes; 

(6)           Navy
Holdco 2 will, and GE will cause Navy Holdco 2 to, contribute all of the
outstanding NBCU Shares to Newco and Newco will issue membership interests in
Newco (  Newco Membership
Interests  ) to Navy Holdco 2 in exchange therefor; 

(7)           GE
will, and will cause its Subsidiaries (other than the NBCU Entities) to,
transfer, directly or indirectly, the Contributed NBCU Assets to NBCU and NBCU
will assume the Assumed NBCU Liabilities; 

(8)           Comcast
will, or will cause one or more of its Subsidiaries to, contribute or transfer,
as applicable, the Contributed Comcast Assets to Newco or, at the direction of
Newco, to NBCU, and Newco or NBCU, as applicable, will assume the Assumed
Comcast Liabilities, and Newco will issue to Comcast Newco Membership Interests
in consideration therefor; and 

(9)           Immediately
following the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the foregoing
clauses (1) through (8), Comcast will purchase Newco Membership Interests from
Navy Holdco 2, the consummation of which will result in Comcast and Navy Holdco
2 owning 51% and 49% of the outstanding Newco Membership Interests,
respectively. 

E.           Concurrently
herewith, NBCU has entered into the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter with the
lenders party thereto. 

F.           Concurrently
herewith, GE, NBCU, Comcast, Newco and Navy Holdco 2 have entered into the Tax
Matters Agreement. 

G.           It
is intended that the contributions of the NBCU Shares (except to the extent of
(i) the assumption by Newco of certain liabilities and (ii) the transaction
described in   Section 2.04   )  and Contributed Comcast Businesses
to Newco in exchange for Newco Membership Interests will be treated as exchanges
under Section 721 of the Code. 

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration for the premises and mutual covenants,
representations, warranties and agreements hereinafter set forth, the parties to
this Agreement agree as follows. 

ARTICLE
1   Definitions 

Section
1.01      .  Certain Defined
Terms.   Capitalized terms used in this Agreement shall have the
meanings specified in Exhibit A. 

2 

ARTICLE
2   Contributions
and Sale; Closing 

Section
2.01      .  Pre-Closing
Transactions.   Prior to the Closing, NBCU and Comcast shall
complete the NBCU Restructuring and Comcast Restructuring, respectively, in
accordance with  Section 6.14  and Navy Holdco 1
shall become the owner of all of the outstanding NBCU Shares. 

Section
2.02      .  Contribution of the
NBCU Shares and the NBCU Businesses.   (a) On the terms and
subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Closing, (x) Navy
Holdco 2 shall, and GE shall cause Navy Holdco 2 to, contribute to Newco the
NBCU Shares, free and clear of all Liens, and (y) GE shall, and shall cause the
other NBCU Transferors to, contribute, convey, assign, transfer and deliver to
NBCU, and NBCU shall acquire and accept from the NBCU Transferors, all right,
title and interest in and to all of the assets, properties and rights of the
NBCU Transferors that are used primarily or held for use primarily in the NBCU
Businesses other than the NBCU Excluded Assets (the   Contributed NBCU Assets  ) as
of the Closing, wherever situated and of whatever kind and nature, real or
personal, tangible or intangible, whether or not reflected on the books and
records of the NBCU Transferors, and whether owned as of the date hereof or
hereafter acquired, including the following, in each case, solely to the extent
used primarily or held for use primarily in the NBCU Businesses: 

(i)     all
equity interests in any Person that is not a Subsidiary of GE (including the
NBCU Minority Interests); 

(ii)     all
personal property and interests therein, including equipment, furniture,
fixtures, furnishings, office equipment, information technology and
communications equipment, vehicles, and other tangible personal property
(including, rights, if any, in any of the foregoing purchased subject to any
conditional sales or title retention agreement in favor of any other
Person); 

(iii)     the
Contributed NBCU Owned Property and, subject to  Section
2.05 , the Contributed NBCU Leased Property; 

(iv)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all rights under all Assumed NBCU
Contracts; 

(v)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all rights under the Assumed NBCU
IP Licenses (including rights to all NBCU Licensed Intellectual Property covered
thereby); 

3 

(vi)     all
accounts, notes and other receivables arising out of the sale of services, goods
or products, together with each NBCU Transferor s right (if any) to receive any
unpaid financing charges accrued thereon; 

(vii)     all
expenses that have been prepaid by any of the NBCU Transferors, including ad
valorem Taxes and lease and rental payments; 

(viii)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all claims, rights, credits,
rights of set-off, causes of action (including counterclaims) and defenses
against third parties; 

(ix)     all
Contributed NBCU Owned Intellectual Property and Contributed NBCU Technology,
together with the right to sue for past, present, and future infringement,
misappropriation and other violations and the right to collect and retain
damages therefor; 

(x)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , and without limiting the
contributions under clauses  (v)  and  (ix)  above, the Library; 

(xi)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all licenses, permits or other
governmental authorizations; 

(xii)     all
books and records, whether in hard copy or electronic or digital format
(including emails, databases, and other file formats), sales and promotional
literature, marketing materials, advertising materials, manuals and data,
intellectual property prosecution files, sales and purchase correspondence,
customer files and documents, lists of suppliers, personnel and employment
records, and copies of any information relating to Taxes imposed on the NBCU
Transferors (but excluding any Tax Returns); 

(xiii)     all
goodwill; 

(xiv)     all
assets, rights and properties expressly to be transferred to NBCU pursuant to
the NBCU Employee Matters Agreement; and 

(xv)     all
rights under non-disclosure or confidentiality, non-compete, or non-solicitation
agreements between any NBCU Transferor and any third parties. 

(b)     Excluded
NBCU Assets.  The following assets and properties of the NBCU
Transferors and the NBCU Entities (the   Excluded NBCU Assets  ) shall
be retained by such entities, to the extent such entities are not NBCU Entities,
or will be transferred to an entity that is not a NBCU Entity prior to Closing,
to the extent such entities are NBCU Entities, notwithstanding any other
provision of this Agreement: 

4 

(i)     all
cash and cash equivalents on hand or held by any bank or other third Person
(other than (x) cash or cash equivalents of any Subsidiary of NBCU that is not,
directly or indirectly, wholly owned by NBCU and (y) an amount of cash and cash
equivalents equal to the amount, if any, by which the NBCU Dividend was reduced
in accordance with  Section 2.06(c) ); 

(ii)     the
owned or leased real property listed on  Section
2.02(b)(ii)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter; 

(iii)     all
GE Intellectual Property (including the GE Name and GE Marks) and GE
Technology; 

(iv)     all
Tax Returns (other than Tax Returns exclusively of the NBCU Businesses), and all
refunds of or credits relating to any Tax for which GE or its Affiliates are
liable under the Tax Matters Agreement; 

(v)     the
NBCU Parent Plans and any trusts and other assets related thereto, except as
expressly provided in the NBCU Employee Matters Agreement; 

(vi)     all
assets expressly excluded pursuant to the NBCU Employee Matters
Agreement; 

(vii)  other
than the NBCU Transferred Insurance Policies, all Insurance
Arrangements; 

(viii)     any
assets used or held for use in the NBCU Businesses owned on the date hereof or
acquired after the date hereof that are sold or otherwise disposed of prior to
the Closing; 

(ix)     all
claims, rights, credits, rights of set-off, causes of action (including
counterclaims) and defenses against third parties, to the extent relating to any
of the other Excluded NBCU Assets or the Excluded NBCU Liabilities, as well as
any books, records and privileged information to the extent relating
thereto; 

(x)     the
assets listed in Section 2.02(b)(x) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter; 

(xi)     any
interest of any NBCU Transferors under the Transaction Agreements; 

(xii)     personnel
and employment records for NBCU Employees with respect to whom the Newco Group
will assume no Liabilities; 

5 

(xiii)     (A)
all corporate minute books (and other similar corporate records) and stock
records of the NBCU Transferors (copies of which will be provided to Newco upon
Newco s reasonable request), (B) any books and records to the extent relating to
the Excluded NBCU Assets or (C) any books, records or other materials that the
NBCU Transferors (x) are required by Law to retain (copies of which, to the
extent permitted by Law, will be provided to Newco upon Newco s reasonable
request), (y) reasonably believe are necessary to enable the NBCU
Transferors to prepare and/or file Tax Returns (copies of which will be provided
to Newco upon Newco s reasonable request) or (z) are prohibited by Law from
delivering to Newco or NBCU; 

(xiv)     any
interest of GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) under any
Related Party NBCU Contract; 

(xv)     the
assets of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (  GE Capital  ) and its
Subsidiaries set forth in Section 2.02(b)(xv) of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter; 

(xvi)     all
records and reports prepared or received by GE or any of its Affiliates in
connection with the contribution of the NBCU Businesses to Newco and the
transactions contemplated hereby (including all analyses relating to the
Combined Businesses so prepared or received) or any other transaction involving
the potential sale or disposition of all or a substantial part of the NBCU
Businesses; 

(xvii)     all
confidentiality agreements with prospective purchasers of NBCU or of all or a
substantial part of the NBCU Businesses (except that the Contributed NBCU Assets
shall include, and the NBCU Transferors shall assign to a NBCU Entity at the
Closing, all of their respective rights under such agreements to confidential
treatment of information with respect to the NBCU Businesses and with respect to
solicitation and hiring of NBCU Business Employees) and all bids and expressions
of interest received from third parties with respect to such
transactions; 

(xviii)     all
assets (other than NBCU Intellectual Property and NBCU Technology) of GE and its
Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) used by such entities to provide
services any NBCU Entity as well as to provide such services to Subsidiaries of
GE (other than any NBCU Entity); and 

(xix)     all
Patents owned by GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity)
allocated by GE to businesses of GE and its Subsidiaries other than any NBCU
Entity (it being understood that such  

6 

allocation
shall not have been made in bad faith), other than those set forth on Section
3.12(e)(i) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter; and 

(xx)     all
materials, documents and records of GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than
any NBCU Entity) in the possession of any NBCU Entity (copies of which will be
provided to Newco upon Newco s reasonable request). 

(c)     Assumed
NBCU Liabilities.  On the terms and subject to the conditions set
forth in this Agreement, NBCU hereby agrees, effective at the time of the
Closing, to assume and thereafter timely to pay, discharge and perform in
accordance with their terms (subject to any  bona fide  defense), all
Liabilities of GE and its Subsidiaries (other than any of the NBCU Entities) to
the extent arising from or relating to the Contributed NBCU Assets or the NBCU
Businesses, other than the Excluded NBCU Liabilities, irrespective of whether
the same shall arise prior to, on or following the Closing Date (the   Assumed NBCU
Liabilities  ).  Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, subject to  Section 2.02(d) , the
following shall be included among the Assumed NBCU Liabilities: 

(i)     the
NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, as applicable, and all Liabilities set
forth on Section 2.02(c)(i) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter; 

(ii)     all
Liabilities arising under the Assumed NBCU Contracts; 

(iii)     all
Taxes for which Newco is responsible pursuant to the Tax Matters
Agreement; 

(iv)     all
Liabilities, whether accruing before, on or after the Closing Date, (A) relating
to the environment or natural resources, human health and safety or Hazardous
Materials and (B) arising from or relating to the Contributed NBCU Assets, the
NBCU Businesses or otherwise to any past, current or future businesses,
operations or properties of the Contributed NBCU Assets or the NBCU Businesses
(including any businesses, operations or properties for which a current or
future owner or operator of the Contributed NBCU Assets or the NBCU Businesses
is responsible as a matter of Law, contract or otherwise); and 

(v)     all
Liabilities assumed by NBCU pursuant to the NBCU Employee Matters Agreement, and
all other Liabilities arising from or relating to the employment, termination of
employment or employment practices with respect to the NBCU Businesses whether
arising before, on or after the Closing Date. 

(d)     Excluded
NBCU Liabilities.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, NBCU is not assuming or agreeing to pay or discharge any of

7 

the
following Liabilities of the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities (the   Excluded NBCU
Liabilities  ): 

(i)     except
for the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, the GE Note and the Comcast
Note, as applicable, the Repatriation Notes, if any, and any Liability set forth
in Section 2.02(c)(i) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter, any Debt (other than (x)
Debt of any Person that is not, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by NBCU or
GE and (y) capital lease obligations); 

(ii)     any
Liability set forth in Section 2.02(d)(ii) of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter; 

(iii)     any
Liability to the extent relating to or arising under any Excluded NBCU
Asset; 

(iv)     any
Liability incurred in connection with the transfer of Excluded NBCU Assets or
other Excluded NBCU Liabilities from the NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities prior
to the Closing; 

(v)     any
Liability for Taxes that GE is required to pay pursuant to the Tax Matters
Agreement; 

(vi)     any
Liability expressly retained by GE pursuant to the NBCU Employee Matters
Agreement; 

(vii)     subject
to  Section 6.06 , any Liability of GE or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) under any Insurance Arrangement other
than the NBCU Transferred Insurance Policies; 

(viii)     Liabilities
of the NBCU Entities arising under the Factoring Agreements to the extent such
Liabilities are inconsistent with the limitation set forth in Section
6.01(a)(xix); 

(ix)     any
Liability of any NBCU Transferor under the Transaction Agreements;
and 

(x)     any
Liability of GE or its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) under any
Related Party NBCU Contract. 

Section
2.03      .  Contribution of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses.   (a) On the terms and subject
to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Closing, Comcast shall,
and shall cause the other Comcast Transferors to, contribute, convey, assign,
transfer and deliver to Newco or, at the direction of Newco, NBCU and Newco or
NBCU, as applicable, shall acquire and accept from the Comcast Transferors, all
right, title and interest in and to (collectively, the  

8 

Contributed Comcast Assets  )
(x) all of the Contributed Comcast Equity Interests and (y) other than the
Excluded Comcast Assets, all of the other assets, properties and rights of the
Comcast Transferors that are used primarily or held for use primarily in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses as of the Closing, wherever situated and of
whatever kind and nature, real or personal, tangible or intangible, whether or
not reflected on the books and records of the Comcast Transferors, and whether
owned as of the date hereof or hereafter acquired, including the following, in
each case, solely to the extent used primarily or held for use primarily in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses: 

(i)     all
equity interests in any Person that is not a Subsidiary of Comcast (including
the Comcast Minority Interests); 

(ii)     all
personal property and interests therein, including equipment, furniture,
fixtures, furnishings, office equipment, information technology and
communications equipment, vehicles, and other tangible personal property
(including, rights, if any, in any of the foregoing purchased subject to any
conditional sales or title retention agreement in favor of any other
Person); 

(iii)     the
Contributed Comcast Owned Property and, subject to  Section 2.05 , the Contributed Comcast Leased
Property; 

(iv)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all rights under all Assumed
Comcast Contracts; 

(v)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all rights under the Assumed
Comcast IP Licenses (including rights to all Comcast Licensed Intellectual
Property covered thereby); 

(vi)     all
accounts, notes and other receivables arising out of the sale of services, goods
or products, together with each Comcast Transferor s right (if any) to receive
any unpaid financing charges accrued thereon; 

(vii)     all
expenses that have been prepaid by any of the Comcast Transferors, including ad
valorem Taxes and lease and rental payments; 

(viii)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all claims, rights, credits,
rights of set-off, causes of action (including counterclaims) and defenses
against third parties; 

(ix)     all
Contributed Comcast Owned Intellectual Property and Contributed Comcast
Technology, together with the right to sue for past, present, and future
infringement, misappropriation and other violations and the right to collect and
retain damages therefor; 

9 

(x)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , and without limiting the
contributions under clauses  (v)  and  (ix)  above, the Library; 

(xi)     subject
to  Section 2.05 , all licenses, permits or other
governmental authorizations; 

(xii)     all
books and records, whether in hard copy or electronic or digital format
(including emails, databases, and other file formats), sales and promotional
literature, marketing materials, advertising materials, manuals and data,
intellectual property prosecution files, sales and purchase correspondence,
customer files and documents, lists of suppliers, personnel and employment
records, and copies of any information relating to Taxes imposed on the Comcast
Transferors (but excluding any Tax Returns); 

(xiii)     all
goodwill; 

(xiv)     all
assets, rights and properties expressly to be transferred to Newco pursuant to
the Comcast Employee Matters Agreement; 

(xv)     all
rights under non-disclosure or confidentiality, non-compete, or non-solicitation
agreements between any Comcast Transferor and any third parties; 

(xvi)     all
rights under any Relevant Transaction and all equity interests, businesses and
assets acquired pursuant thereto to the extent provided in  Section 6.22(c) ; and 

(xvii)     the
Contributed Comcast Insurance Policies. 

(b)     Excluded
Comcast Assets.  The following assets and properties of the Comcast
Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries (the   Excluded Comcast Assets  )
shall be retained by such entities, to the extent such entities are not
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, or will be transferred to an entity that is
not a Contributed Comcast Subsidiary prior to Closing to the extent such
entities are Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, notwithstanding any other
provision of this Agreement: 

(i)     subject
to Comcast s obligations pursuant to Sections  2.08(g)(ii)(A)  and  2.08(g)(iii) , all cash and cash equivalents on hand or
held by any bank or other third Person (other than (x) cash or cash equivalents
of any Subsidiary of Comcast that is not, directly or indirectly, wholly owned
by Comcast and (y) cash and cash equivalents in an amount equal to the Comcast
Disposition Transaction Proceeds); 

10 

(ii)     the
owned or leased real property listed on Section 2.03(b)(ii) of the Comcast
Disclosure Letter; 

(iii)     all
Excluded Comcast Intellectual Property (including the Comcast Name and Comcast
Marks) and Excluded Comcast Technology; 

(iv)     all
Tax Returns (other than Tax Returns exclusively of the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries), and all refunds of or credits relating to any Tax for which
Comcast or its Affiliates are liable under the Tax Matters
Agreement; 

(v)     the
Comcast Parent Plans and any trusts and other assets related thereto, except as
expressly provided in the Comcast Employee Matters Agreement; 

(vi)     all
assets expressly excluded pursuant to the Comcast Employee Matters
Agreement; 

(vii)     other
than the Comcast Transferable Insurance Policies, all Insurance
Arrangements; 

(viii)     any
assets used or held for use in the Contributed Comcast Businesses owned on the
date hereof or acquired after the date hereof that are sold or otherwise
disposed of prior to the Closing; 

(ix)     all
claims, rights, credits, rights of set-off, causes of action (including
counterclaims) and defenses against third parties, to the extent relating to any
of the other Excluded Comcast Assets or the Excluded Comcast Liabilities, as
well as any books, records and privileged information to the extent relating
thereto; 

(x)     the
assets listed in Section 2.03(b)(x) of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter; 

(xi)     any
interest of any Comcast Transferor under the Transaction
Agreements; 

(xii)     personnel
and employment records for current and former employees of the Contributed
Comcast Businesses who are not Comcast Transferred Employees; 

(xiii)     (A)
all corporate minute books (and other similar corporate records) and stock
records of the Comcast Transferors (copies of which will be provided to Newco
upon Newco s reasonable request), (B) any books and records to the extent
relating to the Excluded Comcast Assets or (C) any books, records or other
materials that the Comcast Transferors (x)  

11 

are
required by Law to retain (copies of which, to the extent permitted by Law, will
be provided to Newco upon Newco s reasonable request), (y) reasonably believe
are necessary to enable the Comcast Transferors to prepare and/or file Tax
Returns (copies of which will be provided to Newco upon Newco s reasonable
request) or (z) are prohibited by Law from delivering to Newco; 

(xiv)     any
interest of Comcast or any of its Affiliates (other than the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries) under any Related Party Comcast Contract; 

(xv)     all
rights under any transaction described in  Section
6.22(b)  and all equity interests, businesses or assets acquired pursuant
thereto; 

(xvi)     all
records and reports prepared or received by Comcast or any of its Affiliates in
connection with the contribution of the Contributed Comcast Businesses and the
transactions contemplated hereby (including all analyses relating to the
Combined Businesses so prepared or received) or any other transaction involving
the potential sale or disposition of all or a substantial part of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses; 

(xvii)     all
confidentiality agreements with prospective purchasers of the Contributed
Comcast Businesses or of all or a substantial part of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses (except that the Contributed Comcast Assets shall include, and the
Comcast Transferors shall assign to a Contributed Comcast Subsidiary at the
Closing, all of their respective rights under such agreements to confidential
treatment of information with respect to the Contributed Comcast Businesses and
with respect to solicitation and hiring of Comcast Transferred Employees) and
all bids and expressions of interest received from third parties with respect to
such transactions; and 

(xviii)     all
materials, documents and records of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other
than any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) in the possession of any Comcast
Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary (copies of which will be provided
to Newco upon Newco s reasonable request). 

(c)     Assumed
Comcast Liabilities.  On the terms and subject to the conditions set
forth in this Agreement, Newco or, at the direction of Newco, NBCU hereby
agrees, effective at the time of the Closing, to assume and thereafter timely to
pay, discharge and perform in accordance with their terms (subject to any  bona fide  defense), all
Liabilities of the Comcast Transferors to the extent arising from or relating to
the Contributed Comcast Assets or the Contributed Comcast Businesses, other than
the Excluded Comcast Liabilities,  

12 

irrespective
of whether the same shall arise prior to, on or following the Closing Date (the
  Assumed Comcast
Liabilities  ).  Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, subject to  Section 2.03(d) , the
following shall be included among the Assumed Comcast Liabilities: 

(i)     all
Liabilities set forth on Section 2.03(c)(i) of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter; 

(ii)     all
Liabilities arising under the Assumed Comcast Contracts; 

(iii)     all
Liabilities (other than Relevant Transaction Debt) arising under any Relevant
Transaction or any asset, equity interest or business acquired pursuant thereto
to the extent provided in  Section
6.22(c) ; 

(iv)     all
Taxes for which Newco is responsible pursuant to the Tax Matters
Agreement; 

(v)     all
Liabilities, whether accruing before, on or after the Closing Date, (A) relating
to the environment or natural resources, human health and safety or Hazardous
Materials and (B) arising from or relating to the Contributed Comcast Assets,
the Contributed Comcast Businesses or otherwise to any past, current or future
businesses, operations or properties of the Contributed Comcast Assets or the
Contributed Comcast Businesses (including any businesses, operations or
properties for which a current or future owner or operator of the Contributed
Comcast Assets or the Contributed Comcast Businesses is responsible as a matter
of Law, contract or otherwise); and 

(vi)     all
Liabilities assumed by Newco pursuant to the Comcast Employee Matters Agreement,
and all other Liabilities arising from or relating to the employment,
termination of employment or employment practices with respect to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses whether arising before, on or after the Closing
Date. 

(d)     Excluded
Comcast Liabilities.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement, NBCU is not assuming or agreeing to pay or discharge any of the
following Liabilities of the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries (the   Excluded
Comcast Liabilities  ): 

(i)     except
for any Liability set forth in Section 2.03(c)(i) of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter, any Debt (other than (x) Debt of any Person that is not, directly or
indirectly, wholly owned by Comcast and (y) capital lease
obligations); 

13 

(ii)     any
Liability set forth in Section 2.03(d)(ii) of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter; 

(iii)     any
Liability to the extent relating to or arising under any Excluded Comcast
Asset; 

(iv)     any
Liability incurred in connection with the transfer of Excluded Comcast Assets or
other Excluded Comcast Liabilities from the Comcast Transferors or Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries prior to the Closing; 

(v)     any
Liability for Taxes that Comcast is required to pay pursuant to the Tax Matters
Agreement; 

(vi)     any
Liability expressly retained by Comcast pursuant to the Comcast Employee Matters
Agreement; 

(vii)     any
Liability of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary) under any Insurance Arrangement other than the Comcast
Transferable Insurance Policies; 

(viii)     any
Liability of any Comcast Transferor under the Transaction
Documents; 

(ix)     any
Liability of Comcast or any of its Affiliates (other than any Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary) under any Related Party Comcast Contract; and 

(x)     any
Liability of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries set forth in Section
2.03(d)(x) of the Comcast Disclosure Letter to the extent not relating to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

Section
2.04      .  Sale of Newco
Membership Interests.   On the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Closing (but following the
completion of the transactions described in  Section
2.02  and  2.03 ), Navy Holdco 2 shall, and GE
shall cause Navy Holdco 2 to, sell, convey, assign, transfer and deliver to
Comcast, free and clear of all Liens, and Comcast shall acquire and accept from
Navy Holdco 2, all of Navy Holdco 2 s right, title and interest in and to Newco
Membership Interests representing 25.25% of the outstanding Newco Membership
Interests, for an aggregate purchase price (as it may be adjusted pursuant to  Section 2.11 , the   Comcast/NBCU Purchase Price  )
equal to (i) $7.1065 billion  minus  (ii) 51% of the
NBCU Interim Free Cash Flow  minus  (iii) 49% of the
Comcast Acquisitions Amount. 

Section
2.05      .  Assignment of Certain
Contributed Assets.   Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Agreement to the contrary, this  

14 

Agreement
shall not constitute an agreement to contribute, convey, assign, transfer or
deliver to NBCU or Newco any Contributed NBCU Assets or Contributed Comcast
Assets or any claim or right or any benefit arising thereunder or resulting
therefrom if an attempted contribution, conveyance, assignment, transfer or
delivery thereof, or an agreement to do any of the foregoing, without the
consent of a third party (including any Governmental Authority), would
constitute a breach or other contravention thereof or a violation of Law or
would in any way adversely affect the rights of NBCU or Newco (as assignee or
transferee of the applicable transferor, or otherwise), any other NBCU Entity or
any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary thereto or thereunder.  Subject to
 Section 6.13(c) , each of GE and Comcast shall, and
shall cause each of the NBCU Transferors and Comcast Transferors, respectively,
to, use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any consent necessary for
the contribution, conveyance, assignment, transfer or delivery of any such
Contributed NBCU Asset, Contributed Comcast Asset, claim, right or benefit to
NBCU or Newco, as applicable, (including with respect to a change of control of
a NBCU Entity or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary).  If, on the Closing
Date, any such consent is not obtained, or if an attempted contribution,
conveyance, assignment, transfer or delivery thereof would be ineffective or a
violation of Law or would adversely affect the rights of NBCU, Newco, any other
NBCU Entity or any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary thereto or thereunder so that
NBCU or Newco, as applicable, would not in fact receive all such rights, NBCU,
GE and Comcast shall, subject to  Section 6.13(c) ,
cooperate in a mutually agreeable arrangement under which NBCU or Newco, as
applicable, would, in compliance with Law, obtain the benefits (including
contractual rights) and assume the obligations and bear the economic burdens
associated with such Contributed NBCU Assets, Contributed Comcast Assets, claim,
right or benefit in accordance with this Agreement, including subcontracting,
sublicensing or subleasing to NBCU or Newco, as applicable, or under which the
applicable transferors would enforce for the benefit (and at the expense) of
NBCU or Newco, as applicable, any and all of their rights against a third party
(including any Governmental Authority) associated with such Contributed NBCU
Asset, Contributed Comcast Asset, claim, right or benefit (collectively,   Third Party Rights  ), and the
applicable transferor would promptly pay to NBCU or Newco, as applicable, when
received all monies received by them under any such Contributed NBCU Asset,
Contributed Comcast Asset, claim, right or benefit.  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, any such Contributed NBCU Asset or Contributed Comcast Asset
shall be contributed, conveyed, assigned, transferred and delivered to NBCU or
Newco, as applicable, upon receipt of such consent unless such attempted
contribution, conveyance, assignment, transfer or delivery thereof would be
ineffective or a violation of Law or would adversely affect the rights of NBCU
or Newco, as applicable, any other NBCU Entity or any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary. 

Section
2.06      .  Closing; NBCU Dividend;
Other Distribution.  (a) Subject to the provisions of  Section 9.01  and  Section
9.02 , the closing of the transactions  

15 

contemplated
hereby (the   Closing  )
will take place on the date of the first fiscal month-end under GE s reporting
system (or the first earlier date during such fiscal month as is reasonably
practicable) following the date on which all of the conditions set forth in  Article 9  have been satisfied or waived, other than
those conditions that by their terms are to be satisfied at the Closing, but
subject to the satisfaction or waiver of those conditions ( provided  that such date shall
be at least three (3) Business Days following the date on which the FCC releases
the full text of the FCC Order), or on such other date as the parties hereto may
agree in writing, at the offices of Weil, Gotshal   Manges LLP, 767 Fifth
Avenue, New York, New York 10153, or such other place as the parties hereto may
agree in writing.  The date on which the Closing actually occurs is
referred to in this Agreement as the   Closing Date  ).  The
Closing shall be deemed to occur at 11:59:59 p.m., New York City time, on the
Closing Date. 

(b)     At
least five (5) Business Days prior to the Closing Date, (i) NBCU shall deliver
to Comcast a certificate signed by the Chief Financial Officer of NBCU setting
forth (A) NBCU s good faith estimate of NBCU Interim Free Cash Flow (  Estimated NBCU Interim Free Cash
Flow  ) and (B) NBCU s good faith estimate of Trailing EBITDA of NBCU
(  Estimated NBCU
EBITDA  ) and (ii) Comcast shall deliver to GE a certificate signed by the
Chief Financial Officer of Comcast setting forth (A) Comcast s good faith
estimate of Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed Comcast Businesses (  Estimated Comcast EBITDA  ) and
(B) a true and complete statement of the amount (the   Comcast Acquisitions Amount  )
of any consideration paid (including any Relevant Transaction Debt), other
related costs and reasonable, out-of-pocket fees, costs and expenses incurred by
Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries after the date hereof and prior to the
Closing in connection with each Relevant Transaction (it being understood that
in no event shall such consideration (including any Relevant Transaction Debt)
and other related costs with respect to any Relevant Transaction exceed, in any
material respect, the amount set forth in the applicable notice delivered
pursuant to  Section 6.22  or, in the case of any
Relevant Transaction set forth on  Section 6.22  of
the Comcast Disclosure Letter, the amount previously disclosed in writing to GE
prior to the date hereof). 

(c)     Immediately
following the completion of the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, as
applicable, and prior to the Closing, NBCU shall distribute $9,100,000,000 to
its stockholders in proportion to their respective ownership interests in NBCU
(the   NBCU Dividend  
 provided  that if
Estimated Combined EBITDA is less than the Target Combined EBITDA, then (i) the
amount of the NBCU Dividend shall be reduced by an amount equal to 3.5 times the
amount of the lesser of (x) the amount of the shortfall, if such shortfall
exists, of Estimated NBCU EBITDA as compared to Target NBCU EBITDA, or (y) the
amount of the shortfall of Estimated Combined EBITDA as compared to Target
Combined EBITDA and (ii) NBCU shall issue to GE a note in the form of Exhibit

16 

F-1
with a principal amount equal to the amount that the NBCU Dividend was so
reduced (the   GE
Note  ). 

Section
2.07      .  NBCU
Conversion.   (a) At the Closing, NBCU shall, immediately
following the completion of the contribution referred to in  Section 2.08(a) , convert to a Delaware limited
liability company in accordance with Section 266 of Delaware Law (the   NBCU Conversion  ) and NBCU
shall file a certificate of conversion with the Delaware Secretary of State and
make all other filings or recordings required by the Delaware Law in connection
with the NBCU Conversion.  The NBCU Conversion shall become effective
at such time (the   NBCU
Conversion Effective Time  ) as the certificate of conversion is duly
filed with the Delaware Secretary of State (or at such later time as may be
specified in the certificate of conversion with the consent of each of GE and
Comcast).  From and after the NBCU Conversion Effective Time, NBCU
shall possess all the rights, powers, privileges and franchises and be subject
to all of the obligations, liabilities, restrictions and disabilities of NBCU
prior to the NBCU Conversion Effective Time, and none of the foregoing shall be
deemed transferred as a consequence of the NBCU Conversion, all as provided
under Delaware Law. 

(b)     At
the NBCU Conversion Effective Time, (i) each outstanding NBCU Share shall be
converted into one membership interest of NBCU and (ii) each NBCU Share held by
NBCU as treasury stock shall be canceled. 

Section
2.08      .  Closing
Actions.   At the Closing: 

(a)     first,
Navy Holdco 1 shall, and GE shall cause Navy Holdco 1 to, contribute to Navy
Holdco 2 all of the outstanding NBCU Shares, free and clear of all
Liens; 

(b)     second,
NBCU shall, and GE shall cause NBCU to, complete the NBCU Conversion in
accordance with  Section 2.07 ; 

(c)     third,
Navy Holdco 2 shall, and GE shall cause Navy Holdco 2 to, contribute to Newco
all of the outstanding NBCU Shares, free and clear of all Liens; 

(d)     fourth,
GE shall, and shall cause the other NBCU Transferors to, transfer, directly or
indirectly, the Contributed NBCU Assets to NBCU; NBCU shall assume the Assumed
NBCU Liabilities and GE shall, or shall cause a Subsidiary of GE (other than a
NBCU Entity) to, assume all Excluded NBCU Liabilities that are Liabilities of a
NBCU Entity and NBCU shall pay to GE the fair value of the capital stock of the
Subidiary of GE identified on Section 2.08(d) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter (it
being understood that all of such capital stock shall be included in the
Contributed NBCU Assets); 

17 

(e)     fifth,
Comcast shall, and shall cause the other Comcast Transferors to, contribute or
transfer, as applicable, the Contributed Comcast Assets to Newco or, at the
direction of Newco, NBCU and, in consideration therefor, Newco shall issue to
Comcast, free and clear of all Liens, Newco Membership Interests representing
25.75% of the outstanding Newco Membership Interests (determined after giving
effect to such issuance) and, to the extent Contributed Comcast Equity Interests
are certificated, Comcast shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Newco or
NBCU, as applicable, certificates evidencing such Contributed Comcast Equity
Interests, duly endorsed in blank or accompanied by powers duly executed in
blank or other duly executed instruments of transfer as required in order to
validly transfer title in and to the Contributed Comcast Equity Interests, and
to the extent such Contributed Comcast Equity Interests are not certificated,
Comcast shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Newco or NBCU, as applicable,
other customary evidence of ownership; and Newco or NBCU, as applicable, shall
assume the Assumed Comcast Liabilities and Comcast shall, or shall cause a
Subsidiary of Comcast (other than a Contributed Comcast Subsidiary), to assume
all Excluded Comcast Liabilities that are Liabilities of a Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary; 

(f)     sixth,
Navy Holdco 2 shall, and GE shall cause Navy Holdco 2 to, deliver to Comcast,
free and clear of all Liens, 25.25% of the outstanding Newco Membership
Interests in consideration of the payment by Comcast to NBCU of the Comcast/NBCU
Purchase Price; 

(g)     seventh,
(i) Comcast shall pay the Comcast/NBCU Purchase Price (calculated for this
purpose based on the estimated amounts provided pursuant to Section 2.06(b)) to
Navy Holdco 2, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, into an account
designated by Navy Holdco 2, (ii) if Estimated Combined EBITDA is less than the
Target Combined EBITDA, then (A) Comcast shall, or shall cause an Affiliate to,
contribute to NBCU by wire transfer of immediately available funds, 3.5 times
the lesser of (x) the amount of the shortfall, if such shortfall exists, of
Estimated Comcast EBITDA as compared to Target Comcast EBITDA, or (y) the amount
of the shortfall of Estimated Combined EBITDA as compared to Target Combined
EBITDA and (B) NBCU shall issue to Comcast or such Affiliate of Comcast a
note in the form of Exhibit F-2 with a principal amount equal to the amount that
Comcast contributes or causes to be contributed pursuant to clause (A) (the
  Comcast Note  ) and
(iii) Comcast shall, or shall cause an Affiliate to, contribute to NBCU by wire
transfer of immediately available funds, the amount of the 2008 Contributed
Comcast Businesses EBITDA Adjustment, if any; 

(h)     eighth,
Navy Holdco 2 shall deliver to Comcast a receipt for the Comcast/NBCU Purchase
Price; 

18 

(i)     ninth,
the parties hereto shall, and shall cause their respective applicable
Subsidiaries to, deliver duly executed counterparts to the other Transaction
Agreements referenced in  Section 6.12 ; 

(j)     tenth,
the parties hereto shall, and shall cause their respective applicable
Subsidiaries to, execute and deliver such deeds, bills of sale, endorsements,
consents, assignments, assumptions and other good and sufficient documents or
instruments as such parties and their respective counsel shall deem reasonably
necessary in connection with the actions referred to in Sections  2.08(a)  through (i); and 

(k)     finally,
each NBCU Transferor and Comcast Transferor that will convey a  United States
real property interest  (as defined under Section 897 of the Code) shall
deliver to Newco a certificate in accordance with Treasury Regulations
Section 1.1445-2(b)(2) to the effect that the applicable transferor is not
a  foreign person . 

Newco
hereby directs Comcast to transfer the Contributed Comcast Assets to NBCU on its
behalf and NBCU to assume the Assumed Comcast Liabilities on its behalf, in each
case, as described in  Section 2.08(e)  and subject
to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 

Section
2.09      .  Beneficial Ownership in
Newco by Comcast and GE.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Agreement, immediately following the transactions contemplated
by this  Article 2  (including  Section 2.04 ), the beneficial ownership by Comcast of
Newco Membership Interests shall represent 51% of the issued and outstanding
ownership interests of Newco and the beneficial ownership by Navy Holdco 2 of
Newco Membership Interests shall represent 49% of the issued and outstanding
ownership interests of Newco. 

Section
2.10      .  Closing
Statement.   (a) As promptly as practicable after the Closing
Date, but no later than the later of (x) 30   days after the end of
the last complete fiscal quarter included in Trailing EBITDA of NBCU and (y) 60
days after the Closing Date, Comcast will cause to be prepared and delivered to
GE a statement setting forth in reasonable detail Comcast s calculation of NBCU
Interim Free Cash Flow, Trailing EBITDA of NBCU and Trailing EBITDA of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses (the   Closing
Statement  ). 

(b)     If
GE disagrees with Comcast s calculation of NBCU Interim Free Cash Flow, Trailing
EBITDA of NBCU or Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed Comcast Businesses as set
forth in the Closing Statement, GE may, within 30 days after delivery of the
Closing Statement deliver a notice to Comcast disagreeing with such calculation
and which specifies GE s calculation of such amount and in reasonable detail
GE s grounds for such disagreement.  Any such  

19 

notice
of disagreement shall specify those items or amounts as to which GE disagrees
(each, a   Disputed
Item  ), and GE shall be deemed to have agreed with all other relevant
amounts contained in the Closing Statement and the calculation of NBCU Interim
Free Cash Flow, Trailing EBITDA of NBCU and Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed
Comcast Businesses set forth therein. 

(c)     If
no notice of disagreement is timely delivered pursuant to  Section 2.10(b) , then the calculation of NBCU Interim
Free Cash Flow, Trailing EBITDA of NBCU and Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed
Comcast Businesses set forth in the Closing Statement shall be final and binding
for all purposes.  If a notice of disagreement shall be duly delivered
pursuant to  Section 2.10(b) , Comcast and GE shall,
during the 30   days
following such delivery, use their good faith efforts to reach agreement on the
Disputed Items.  If Comcast and GE are unable to reach such agreement
during such period, they shall, within five (5) days thereafter, engage an
internationally recognized accounting firm mutually agreed by GE and Comcast
(the   Neutral
Accountant  ), pursuant to an engagement agreement executed by GE, Comcast
and the Neutral Accountant, to resolve each Disputed Item. 

(d)     The
Neutral Accountant shall be instructed only to, acting as an expert and not as
an arbitrator, resolve the Disputed Items.  GE and Comcast shall
instruct the Neutral Accountant that a final written determination (which
determination shall contain the underlying reasoning) of each Disputed Item
shall be completed and distributed to GE and Comcast as soon as practicable
after the engagement of the Neutral Accountant;  provided  that GE and Comcast
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Neutral Accountant to
make a final determination within 30 days from the date the Disputed Item was
submitted to the Neutral Accountant.  GE and Comcast agree that all
known adjustments shall be made without regard to materiality.  During
the review by the Neutral Accountant, GE and Comcast shall make available or
cause to be made available to the Neutral Accountant such individuals and such
information, work papers, books and records as may be reasonably required by the
Neutral Accountant to make its final determination.  The Neutral
Accountant shall rely solely on the written submission of GE and Comcast with
respect to the matters at issue and shall not undertake an independent
investigation.  With respect to each Disputed Item, such determination
shall not be in excess of the higher, nor less than the lower, of the amounts
advocated by either party in such dispute. 

(e)     The
resolution by the Neutral Accountant of any Disputed Item shall be conclusive
and binding upon the parties, absent manifest error.  The parties
hereto agree that the procedure set forth in this  Section 2.10  for resolving any Disputed Item shall be
the sole and exclusive method for resolving any such disputes. 

20 

(f)     The
fees and expenses of the Neutral Accountant shall be borne 50% by GE and 50% by
Comcast. 

(g)     Comcast
and GE agree that they will cooperate and assist in the preparation of the
Closing Statement, the calculation of NBCU Interim Free Cash Flow, Trailing
EBITDA of NBCU and Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed Comcast Businesses, and in
the conduct of the reviews referred to in this  Section
2.10 , including the making available to the extent necessary of books,
records, work papers and personnel. 

Section
2.11      .  Adjustments.   Within
five (5) Business Days following the final resolution of each of NBCU Interim
Free Cash Flow, Trailing EBITDA of NBCU and Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed
Comcast Businesses (with such final resolution being deemed not to occur until
all Disputed Items have been finally resolved), the applicable parties will make
such cash payments, modify or cancel any applicable GE Note or Comcast Note, and
execute or deliver any applicable GE Note or Comcast Note, in each case as
required in order that, as a result of the actions taken pursuant to this  Section 2.11 , (i) on a net basis after giving effect
to any applicable payments made or received at Closing and any other payment
that would be required to be made or received pursuant to this  Section 2.11 , each applicable party has paid or
received the appropriate cash amount that would have been paid or received by
such party if the payments at Closing had been calculated based on the final
amounts of all applicable items (rather than estimated amounts);  provided  that any payments to
be made pursuant to this  Section 2.11   by or to
the stockholders of NBCU as of the time that the NBCU Dividend was paid shall be
made in full by or to GE, as applicable,  and (ii) each of GE and Comcast
will hold a GE Note or Comcast Note, if applicable, with a principal amount
equal to the principal amount of the GE Note or Comcast Note, as applicable,
that would have been issued at Closing if such issuance at Closing had been
based on the final amounts of all applicable items (rather than estimated
amounts).  Any cash amount required to be paid pursuant to this  Section 2.11  shall be paid by wire transfer of
immediately available funds to an account designated by the party entitled to
receive such funds and shall bear interest from and including the Closing Date
to but excluding the date of payment at a rate per annum equal to the 3-month
London Interbank Offered Rate as of 11:00 am London time on the Closing
Date.  Such interest shall be payable at the same time as the payment
to which it relates and shall be calculated daily on the basis of a year of 365
days and the actual number of days elapsed. 

ARTICLE
3   Representations
and Warranties of NBCU 

NBCU
hereby represents and warrants to Newco and Comcast that, except as set forth in
the NBCU Disclosure Letter: 

21 

Section
3.01      .  Incorporation,
Qualification and Authority.    (a) NBCU is a
corporation and, after the NBCU Conversion, will be a limited liability company
duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of Delaware
and has all necessary power to enter into, consummate the transactions
contemplated by, and carry out its obligations under, the Transaction Agreements
to which it is a party.  NBCU is duly qualified as a foreign
corporation or other organization to do business, and, to the extent legally
applicable, is in good standing, in each jurisdiction where the character of its
owned, operated or leased properties or the nature of its activities makes such
qualification necessary, except for jurisdictions where the failure to be so
qualified or in good standing would not reasonably be expected to, individually
or in the aggregate, have a NBCU Material Adverse Effect. 

(b)     The
execution, delivery and performance by NBCU of the Transaction Agreements to
which it is party and the consummation by NBCU of the transactions contemplated
by, and the performance by NBCU under, the Transaction Agreements to which it is
party, have been duly authorized by all requisite action on the part of NBCU and
the stockholders of NBCU, subject to the approval of the NBCU Board of Directors
(which shall be obtained in accordance with  Section
6.05(e) ).  This Agreement has been and, upon execution and
delivery, the other Transaction Agreements to which NBCU is a party will be,
duly executed and delivered by NBCU, and (subject to the approval of the NBCU
Board of Directors (which shall be obtained in accordance with  Section 6.05(e) ) and assuming due authorization,
execution and delivery by the other parties hereto and thereto) this Agreement
constitutes and, upon execution and delivery, the other Transaction Agreements
to which NBCU is party will constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of
NBCU, enforceable against NBCU in accordance with their terms, subject to the
effect of any applicable Laws relating to bankruptcy, reorganization,
insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or preferential transfers, or
similar Laws relating to or affecting creditors  rights generally and subject,
as to enforceability, to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless
of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at
law). 

Section
3.02      .  Incorporation and
Qualification of the NBCU Entities.    (a) Except as would not
reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have a NBCU
Material Adverse Effect, each of the NBCU Entities (other than NBCU) is a
corporation or other organization duly incorporated or organized, validly
existing and, to the extent legally applicable, in good standing under the Laws
of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization.  Each of the
NBCU Entities (other than NBCU) has the requisite power and authority to operate
its business as now conducted, is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or
other organization to do business and, to the extent legally applicable, is in
good standing in each jurisdiction where the character of its owned, operated or
leased properties or the nature of its activities makes such qualification
necessary, except  

22 

for
jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or in good standing would not
reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have a NBCU
Material Adverse Effect. 

(b)     The
organizational documents of each NBCU Entity (other than NBCU) are in full force
and effect.  No NBCU Entity (other than NBCU) is in violation of any
of the provisions of its organizational documents.  NBCU has
previously made available to Comcast complete and correct copies of the
organizational documents of each of the NBCU Entities that as of December 31,
2008 owned assets with an aggregate value in excess of $10 million or had
revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 in excess of $10 million,
each of which is listed on  Section 3.02(b)  of the
NBCU Disclosure Letter (the   Material NBCU Entities  ), as
amended through the date hereof. 

Section
3.03      .  Capital Structure of
NBCU, the NBCU Entities and Other Equity Interests.  (a)   Section 3.03(a)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets
forth the ownership percentages of each class of capital stock or other equity
interests outstanding of NBCU and each of the other Material NBCU Entities held
by GE or its Subsidiaries, except for changes resulting from the consummation of
the NBCU Restructuring.  All of the outstanding shares or other equity
interests of NBCU and each of the other NBCU Entities have been duly authorized
and validly issued, and are fully paid (solely with respect to any NBCU Entity
that is a corporation) and nonassessable and were not issued in violation of any
preemptive rights or any Law (including any federal or state securities
Laws).  There are no options, warrants or rights of conversion or
other rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments obligating NBCU or any of
the other NBCU Entities to issue, sell, purchase, return or redeem any of its
shares, other equity interests or securities convertible into or exchangeable
for its shares or other equity interests or any shares or other equity interests
of NBCU or any of the other NBCU Entities.  NBCU owns, directly or
indirectly, the equity interests in the other NBCU Entities, free and clear of
all Liens, except any Liens arising out of, under or in connection with this
Agreement.  There are no voting trusts, stockholder agreements,
proxies or other agreements in effect with respect to the voting or transfer of
the shares or other equity interests of NBCU or any of the other NBCU
Entities. 

(b)      Section 3.03(b)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets
forth the name and jurisdiction of each Person that (i) is not GE or a
Subsidiary of GE but in which GE or any of its Subsidiaries holds an equity
interest having a value of $1 million or more as reflected on the unaudited
consolidated balance sheet of NBCU and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of June
30, 2009 and (ii) operates within the scope of the NBCU Businesses (  NBCU Minority
Interests  ).  All of the NBCU Minority Interests are owned,
directly or indirectly, by a NBCU Transferor or a NBCU Entity, free and clear of
any Liens (other than Permitted Liens, any restrictions under the Securities Act
and other applicable securities  

23 

Laws
or other Liens provided by the agreements or organizational documents of such
entity).  None of the NBCU Transferors or any of the NBCU Entities has
any obligation, contingent or otherwise, to fund or participate in the debts of
any Person in which any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity holds a NBCU Minority
Interest. 

Section
3.04      .  No
Conflict.   Provided that all consents, approvals,
authorizations and other actions described in  Section
3.05  and  Section 4.03  have been obtained or
taken, the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by NBCU and the
other Transaction Agreements to which NBCU is or will at Closing be a party, and
the consummation by NBCU of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, do
not and will not (a) violate or conflict with any of the articles of
incorporation or bylaws or similar organizational documents of NBCU or any other
NBCU Entities, (b) conflict with or violate any Law or Governmental Order
applicable to NBCU or any other NBCU Entities or any of their respective
properties (including the NBCU Assets), or (c) result in any breach of, or
constitute a default (or an event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of
time, or both, would become a default) under, or give to any Person any rights
of termination, amendment, acceleration or cancellation of, or result in the
creation of any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) on any of the NBCU Assets
pursuant to, or require a consent or approval under any note, bond, mortgage or
indenture, contract, agreement, lease, license, permit, franchise or other
material instrument to which NBCU or any of the other NBCU Entities is a party
or by which any of their respective properties (including the NBCU Assets) is
bound or affected; except, in the case of clauses  (b)  and  (c) , for any such
conflicts, violations, breaches, defaults, rights or Liens as, individually or
in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a
NBCU Material Adverse Effect and would not materially impair or delay the
ability of NBCU to consummate the transactions contemplated by, or perform their
obligations under, the Transaction Agreements. 

Section
3.05      .  Consents and
Approvals.   The execution, delivery and performance by NBCU of
the Transaction Agreements to which it is or will at Closing be parties do not,
and the performance by NBCU of, and the consummation by NBCU of the transactions
contemplated by, the Transaction Agreements (including the transactions
contemplated by  Section 6.14 ) will not, require any
consent, approval, authorization or other action by, or any filing with or
notification to, any Governmental Authority, except (a) in connection, or in
compliance, with the notification and waiting period requirements of the HSR Act
and applicable filings or approvals under non-U.S. antitrust and competition
Laws, (b) in connection, or in compliance, with the applicable requirements of
the U.S. Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules, regulations,
orders and policies of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission or any
successor agency thereto (the   FCC  ) thereunder
(collectively, the   Communications Act  ) and
applicable filings or approvals under non-U.S.  

24 

Laws
governing the regulation of telecommunications and broadcasting, (c) where the
failure to obtain such consent, approval, authorization or action or to make
such filing or notification has not had and would not reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a NBCU Material Adverse Effect and would
not materially impair or delay the ability of NBCU to consummate the
transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations under, the Transaction
Agreements to which it is a party and (d) as may be required as a result of any
facts or circumstances relating to Comcast or its Affiliates. 

Section
3.06      .  Financial Information;
Accounting Controls; Absence of Undisclosed
Liabilities.   (a)   Section
3.06(a)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth (i) the audited
consolidated balance sheets of NBCU and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2008 (the   NBCU
Reference Balance Sheet  ) and December 31, 2007, (ii) the related audited
consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the
years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 and (iii) the unaudited
consolidated balance sheet of NBCU and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of June
30, 2009 and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders 
equity and cash flows of NBCU and its consolidated Subsidiaries for the six
month period then ended (the balance sheets and statements referred to in
clauses  (i) ,  (ii)  and
 (iii)  being herein collectively referred to as the
  NBCU Financial
Statements  ).  The NBCU Financial Statements have been prepared
in all material respects in accordance with U.S. GAAP (except with respect to
the unaudited balance sheet and statements, for the absence of notes and normal
recurring year-end adjustments that, individually or in the aggregate, would not
be material) and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position and the results of operations and cash flows of NBCU and its
consolidated Subsidiaries at their respective dates and for the periods covered
by such statements. 

(b)     The
NBCU Entities have maintained systems of internal accounting controls with
respect to the NBCU Businesses sufficient to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for NBCU.  NBCU has implemented disclosure
controls and procedures designed to ensure that material information relating to
the NBCU Businesses is made known to the management of NBCU by others within the
NBCU Businesses. 

(c)     The
information in any databases maintained by any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity to
track licensing of Library Pictures for television and home video worldwide
relating to the Library of the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities has been
maintained by the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities in the ordinary course
of business, is derived from the books and records and the Exploitation
Agreements of the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities, and is relied on by
the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities in conducting the NBCU
Businesses. 

25 

(d)     Except
(i) as set forth in the NBCU Financial Statements, (ii) Liabilities incurred in
the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice since the date of
the NBCU Reference Balance Sheet, (iii) Excluded NBCU Liabilities, (iv)
Liabilities for Taxes, which are exclusively governed by the Tax Matters
Agreement, and (v) Liabilities that would not reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a NBCU Material Adverse Effect, there are no
Liabilities of the NBCU Transferors, the NBCU Entities or otherwise relating to
the NBCU Businesses  required under U.S. GAAP to be reflected in the
NBCU Financial Statements. 

Section
3.07      .  Absence of Certain
Changes or Events.   Except as contemplated by this Agreement,
(a) since January 1, 2009, (i) the NBCU Businesses have been conducted in the
ordinary course consistent with past practice and (ii) there has not occurred
any event, change, occurrence or circumstance that, individually or in the
aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have a NBCU Material
Adverse Effect and (b) from January 1, 2009 to the date hereof, none of GE or
any of its Subsidiaries have taken any action that, individually or in the
aggregate, would materially impair or delay the ability of NBCU or the NBCU
Transferors to consummate the transactions contemplated by, or perform their
obligations under, the Transaction Agreements. 

Section
3.08      .  Absence of
Litigation.   No Actions are pending or, to the Knowledge of
NBCU, threatened against the NBCU Transferors or any NBCU Entity or any of their
respective properties or assets, and since January 1, 2007, no NBCU Transferor
nor any NBCU Entity has received any subpoena or notice of any claim or
investigation that (a) has had or would reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a NBCU Material Adverse Effect or (b) would
reasonably be expected to prevent or materially impair or delay the consummation
of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor is there any Governmental Order
outstanding against, or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, any investigation by any
Governmental Authority, involving any NBCU Transferors or any NBCU Entities or
any of their respective properties or assets, that would reasonably be expected
to prevent or materially impair or delay the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby. 

Section
3.09      .  Compliance with
Laws.   Excluding employment and employee benefits matters
(which are covered in  Section 3.15 ) and Taxes
(which are covered by the Tax Matters Agreement), none of the NBCU Transferors
or NBCU Entities is in violation of any Laws or Governmental Orders applicable
to the conduct of the NBCU Businesses by it or by which any NBCU Asset is bound
or affected, and since January 1, 2008 no NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity has
received any notice from any Governmental Authority alleging any conflict with,
or violation or breach of, any such Law or Governmental Order, in each case,
except for violations the existence of which has not had, and would not

26 

reasonably
be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a NBCU Material Adverse
Effect. 

Section
3.10      .  Governmental Licenses
and Permits.  (a)  This  Section
3.10  does not address employment and employee benefits matters (which are
covered in  Section 3.15 ) and Taxes (which are
covered by the Tax Matters Agreement).  Each of the NBCU Transferors
and the NBCU Entities is in compliance in all material respects with all Laws
applicable to the ownership of their respective assets and properties and the
operation of the NBCU Businesses, and since January 1, 2008, no NBCU Transferor
or NBCU Entity has received any notice from any Governmental Authority alleging
any material conflict with, material violation or breach of or material default
under any such Law. 

(b)     Each
of the NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities has all permits, licenses,
permissions, franchises, and amendments thereto, from any Governmental Authority
(including FCC Licenses) necessary for the ownership and operation of the NBCU
Businesses (the   NBCU
Licenses  ).  Each of the NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities is
in compliance in all material respects with the terms of the NBCU Licenses, and
no NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities have received any notice from any
Governmental Authority alleging any material conflict with or violation or
breach of any NBCU License. 

(c)      Section
3.10(c)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth a complete list of the
material FCC Licenses held by the NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities (the   NBCU FCC Licenses  ) currently
in effect and all applications pending before any Governmental Authority with
respect to the NBCU FCC Licenses or the Stations.  The NBCU FCC
Licenses are in full force and effect and are not subject to any restrictions or
conditions other than those generally affecting such type of NBCU FCC
License.  The NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities have filed all
reports, notifications and filings with the FCC necessary to maintain all NBCU
FCC Licenses in full force and effect, have timely paid all FCC regulatory fees
with respect thereto and, to the Knowledge of NBCU, there are no facts, events
or conditions based upon which the FCC might reasonably be expected to revoke,
suspend, cancel, rescind, terminate, require the disposition of, or fail to
renew any of the NBCU FCC Licenses or fail to grant any pending FCC application
or petition for a NBCU FCC License.  The NBCU Transferors and NBCU
Entities maintain public files for the Stations as required by FCC
rules.  The NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities are operating only
those facilities of the NBCU Businesses for which an appropriate FCC
authorization has been obtained and such operation is in compliance with such
authorization in all material respects. 

(d)      Section
3.10(d)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter lists each of the full-power and
Class A television stations owned and operated by the NBCU Transferors and
NBCU Entities (the   Stations  ) and, except with
respect to the  

27 

Class A
Stations, provides information concerning carriage (or non-carriage) of each
such station by (i) the cable television systems serving its local television
market (as defined in Section 76.55 of the rules and regulations of the
FCC, 47 CFR Section 76.55) and (ii) satellite carriers providing
local-into-local television service (as defined in Section 76.66 of the
rules and regulations of the FCC, 47 CFR Section 76.66).  With
respect to each Station (other than the Class A Stations), each of the NBCU
Transferors and NBCU Entities, during the period of ownership of such Station by
such NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities in accordance with Section 76.64 of
the FCC Rules (47 CFR Section 76.64), has made the required election
between retransmission consent or must carry status with respect to each
multi-channel video programming distributor serving all or any part of the
television market (as defined by the FCC) of such Station.  The
Stations, their respective physical facilities, electrical and mechanical
systems and transmitting and studio equipment are being operated in compliance
with the applicable FCC Licenses and the requirements of the Communications Act
in all material respects.  The NBCU Transferors, NBCU Entities and
Stations are in compliance, in all material respects, with all requirements of
the FCC and the Federal Aviation Administration with respect to the construction
and/or alteration of the antenna structures owned by any of the NBCU Transferors
(to the extent used or held for use in connection with the NBCU Businesses),
NBCU Entities or Stations, and, to the Knowledge of NBCU, with respect to the
construction and/or alteration of the antenna structures used, but not owned by
any of the NBCU Transferors, NBCU Entities or Stations. 

(e)     No
application, action or proceeding is pending for the renewal or modification of
any NBCU FCC Licenses and, except for actions or proceedings affecting such type
of NBCU FCC License generally, no application, complaint, action or proceeding
is pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened that seeks or is reasonably
likely to result in (i) the denial of an application for renewal of a NBCU FCC
License, (ii) the revocation, adverse modification, non-renewal or suspension of
any of the NBCU FCC Licenses, (iii) the issuance of a material cease-and-desist
order or (iv) the imposition of any material administrative or judicial sanction
with respect to any of the Stations.  There is not now issued,
outstanding, pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened, by or before the
FCC or any Governmental Authority, any order to show cause, notice of violation,
notice of apparent liability, notice of forfeiture or complaint with respect to
any of the NBCU FCC Licenses or the Stations that has had or would reasonably be
expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a NBCU Material Adverse
Effect. 

Section
3.11      .  Sufficiency of the NBCU
Assets; Liens.   (a)  On the Closing Date (including
after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by  Section 6.14 ) and assuming receipt of all consents,
approvals and authorizations relating to the matters set forth in Sections   3.04  
and  3.05  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter or as
contemplated by  Section 3.05 ), the NBCU Assets
will, taking into  

28 

account
all Ancillary Agreements and Third Party Rights, constitute all of the assets
(other than Intellectual Property) necessary to conduct the NBCU Businesses
immediately following the Closing in all material respects as it is conducted on
the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date;  provided ,  however , that nothing in this
 Section 3.11  shall be deemed to constitute a
representation or warranty as to the adequacy of the amounts of cash or working
capital (or the availability of the same); and  provided ,  further , that this  Section 3.11(a)    shall
not be deemed to be breached as a result of any action by NBCU with respect to
which Comcast has provided its specific consent (including pursuant to Section
6.01(a)). 

(b)     Except
for Taxes, which are exclusively governed by the Tax Matters Agreement, and
Permitted Liens, the NBCU Assets (other than the NBCU Real Properties, which are
the subject of  Section 3.16  and the NBCU Owned
Intellectual Property, which is the subject of  Section
3.12 ) are owned by or otherwise made available to the NBCU Transferors or
NBCU Entities, as the case may be, free and clear of all Liens. 

(c)     The
NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities have maintained the material tangible
NBCU Assets ( e.g. ,
theme park rides and other NBCU Assets of comparable significance) in accordance
with applicable industry standards, ordinary wear and tear
excepted. 

Section
3.12      .  Intellectual
Property.    (a) (i) The NBCU
Transferors and the NBCU Entities own sole and exclusive title to the Patents
included in the NBCU Owned Intellectual Property.  To the Knowledge of
NBCU, the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities own sole and exclusive title to
(x) the Copyrights included in the NBCU Owned Intellectual Property to the
extent of their ownership interest, and (y) all NBCU Owned Intellectual Property
(other than the Patents and Copyrights included therein). 

(ii)     The
NBCU Owned Intellectual Property is owned by the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU
Entities, as the case may be, free and clear of all Liens, other than Permitted
Liens. 

(iii)     The
NBCU Intellectual Property, the applicable Third Party Rights, together with the
rights to be conveyed pursuant to the GE Intellectual Property Cross License
Agreement and the Intellectual Property rights of Newco contemplated under the
other Ancillary Agreements, constitute all material Intellectual Property in use
by, and necessary for the operation of, the NBCU Businesses as currently
conducted, assuming receipt of the relevant consents, approvals and
authorizations relating to the matters set forth in  Section 3.04  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter;  provided, however,  that this
 Section 3.12(a)(iii)  shall not be deemed to be
breached as a result of any action by NBCU  

29 

with
respect to which Comcast has provided its specific consent (including pursuant
to  Section 6.01(a) ). 

(b)     To
the Knowledge of NBCU, the operation and conduct of the NBCU Businesses as
currently conducted do not infringe upon, misappropriate or otherwise violate
the valid and enforceable Intellectual Property, moral rights or neighboring
rights of any third party in any material respect. 

(c)     No
Actions brought by GE or any of its Subsidiaries (including any NBCU Entity) are
pending against any Person, and no Person has received any subpoena or written
notice of any claim or investigation from GE or any of its Subsidiaries
(including any NBCU Entity), alleging that such Person is infringing upon,
misappropriating or otherwise violating in any material respect the NBCU Owned
Intellectual Property or the NBCU Technology, except for such infringements,
misappropriations or violations that arise from the unauthorized reproduction,
performance or distribution by peer-to-peer file sharing, other online piracy or
illegal hard disk counterfeiting. 

(d)     No
Actions are pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened against any of the
NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities or any of their respective properties or
assets, and no NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity has received any subpoena or
written notice of any claim or investigation, alleging that the operation or
conduct of the NBCU Businesses by any of the NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities
infringes upon, misappropriates or otherwise violates any Intellectual Property
of any third party in any material respect.  There are no suits,
actions or proceedings pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened against
any of the NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities with respect to the validity, title
or ownership of any material NBCU Owned Intellectual Property. 

(e)     (i)
 Section 3.12(e)(i)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter
sets forth a true and complete list of all NBCU Registered IP (other than any
registrations or applications for registration of Copyrights). 

(ii)     All
maintenance fees for the NBCU Registered IP have been paid (except with respect
to NBCU Registered IP which the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities have
abandoned or permitted to lapse in the ordinary course of business) and the NBCU
Registered IP remains in full force and effect, in each case to the extent such
NBCU Registered IP is material to the NBCU Businesses. 

(iii)     The
NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities have taken all commercially reasonable
steps to protect and maintain the NBCU Owned Intellectual Property that, in
their reasonable business judgment, they have determined to be necessary or
advisable for such protection or maintenance and, where reasonably necessary as
of the date hereof, each  

30 

item
of the NBCU Owned Intellectual Property that is material to the NBCU Businesses
has been duly registered with, filed in or issued by, as the case may be, the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the U.S. Copyright Office, the applicable
domain name registrar or the corresponding authorities in foreign jurisdictions,
to the extent necessary to ensure full protection under any applicable
Law. 

(f)     Except
for the GE Name and GE Marks, all GE Intellectual Property and GE Technology
owned by GE and its Subsidiaries that is or has been used, held for use or
Contemplated to be used in the NBCU Businesses has been licensed to Newco
pursuant to the GE Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement.  As
of the date hereof, neither the GE Name nor the GE Marks are used in the NBCU
Businesses other than certain de minimis or insignificant uses in stationary,
powerpoints, promotional brochures, and other promotional
correspondence. 

(g)     Each
of the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities has taken security measures
reasonable in the industry in which it operates to protect the secrecy,
confidentiality and value of all Trade Secrets included in the NBCU Intellectual
Property and/or the NBCU Technology. 

(h)     The
consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement would not
reasonably be expected to: (i) restrict, limit, invalidate, impair, alter,
extinguish, result in the loss of or otherwise adversely affect any right, title
or interest of Newco or any of the NBCU Entities in any NBCU Owned Intellectual
Property or NBCU Technology, or its rights to use any NBCU Licensed Intellectual
Property, in each case in a manner that would reasonably be expected to be
material to the NBCU Businesses taken as a whole; (ii) grant or require
Newco or any of the NBCU Entities to grant to any third party any right with
respect to any NBCU Owned Intellectual Property or NBCU Technology, in each case
that would reasonably be expected to be material to the NBCU Businesses taken as
a whole; (iii) subject Newco or any of the NBCU Entities to an increase in
royalties or other payments, in each case that would reasonably be expected to
be material to the NBCU Businesses taken as a whole, under any NBCU IP License;
(iv) diminish royalties or other payments to which the NBCU Transferors or
the NBCU Entities would otherwise be entitled, in each case that would
reasonably be expected to be material to the NBCU Businesses taken as a whole,
under any NBCU IP License; or (v) result in the breach or, by its terms,
termination of any NBCU IP License that is material to the NBCU Businesses taken
as a whole.  For the avoidance of doubt, the representation set forth
in this  Section 3.12(h)  does not contemplate the
manner in which the Business of Newco is to be operated after the
Closing. 

Section
3.13      .  Environmental and
Health and Safety Matters.   (a)  Except as has not
had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually  

31 

or
in the aggregate, a NBCU Material Adverse Effect: (i) none of the NBCU
Transferors (with respect to the NBCU Entities, the NBCU Assets or the NBCU
Businesses), the NBCU Entities or the NBCU Assets (except for the NBCU Leased
Real Property) is subject and, to the Knowledge of NBCU, no NBCU Leased Real
Property is subject, to a written notice, notification, demand, citation,
summons, request for information, investigation or order from, or agreement
with, any Governmental Authority, or has been assessed any penalty or fine in
the last five (5) years, in each case, relating to any Environmental Law,
Environmental Permit or Hazardous Material; (ii) there has been no release,
discharge, migration or disposal of Hazardous Materials on, at, to, under or
from (including offsite disposal or arrangement for the disposal from) the NBCU
Real Properties or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, real properties formerly owned,
leased or operated by the NBCU Entities or otherwise used in the NBCU
Businesses; (iii) there are no Actions pending or threatened against the NBCU
Transferors (with respect to the NBCU Entities, the NBCU Assets or the NBCU
Businesses), the NBCU Assets or the NBCU Entities, in each case, relating to any
Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Material; (iv) the NBCU
Transferors (with respect to the NBCU Assets or the NBCU Businesses), the NBCU
Entities, the NBCU Assets and the NBCU Businesses have operated for the last
five (5) years and are operating in compliance with applicable Environmental
Laws including obtaining and maintaining all Environmental Permits; (v) there
are no Liabilities of the NBCU Transferors (with respect to the NBCU Assets or
the NBCU Businesses) or the NBCU Entities or otherwise relating to the NBCU
Businesses, in each case, with respect to any Environmental Law, Environmental
Permit or Hazardous Material; and (vi) there are no financial assurance
requirements pertaining to the NBCU Businesses or the NBCU Assets (including, to
the Knowledge of NBCU, the NBCU Leased Real Property) under any Environmental
Law or Environmental Permit. 

(b)     All
material environmental or health and safety assessments and reports conducted
within the last five (5) years by or on behalf of the NBCU Entities or, with
respect to the NBCU Real Properties or the NBCU Businesses, the NBCU
Transferors, have been furnished or made available to Comcast. 

(c)     With
respect to the NBCU Entities, the NBCU Assets and the NBCU Businesses, the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby requires no filings to be
made or actions to be taken pursuant to the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery
Act or the  Connecticut Property Transfer Law  (Sections 22a-134 through 22-134e
of the Connecticut General Statutes). 

The
representations and warranties made by NBCU in  Section
3.07  and  Section 3.13  are the only
representations and warranties made by NBCU in this Agreement with respect to
any matters arising under, or regulated pursuant to, any Environmental Law or
Environmental Permit. 

32 

Section
3.14      .  Significant NBCU
Contracts.   (a)   Section
3.14(a)   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete
list of all of the following Contracts to which GE or any of its Subsidiaries
(including any of the NBCU Entities) is a party or by which it or any of its
properties or assets may be bound as of the date of this Agreement (in each case
(x) only with respect to the NBCU Businesses and (y) as amended, supplemented,
waived or otherwise modified through the date of this Agreement, collectively,
the   Significant NBCU
Contracts  ): 

(i)     stock
purchase agreements or asset purchase agreements that (x) would reasonably
be expected to involve aggregate consideration (including any Debt for borrowed
money acquired or assumed thereunder) in excess of $75 million, (y) have not
expired by, and have not been terminated in accordance with, their terms, and
(z) relate to the prospective acquisition or disposition of any NBCU Assets or
the NBCU Businesses; 

(ii)     Contracts
pursuant to which any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity currently leases any NBCU
Assets (other than leases for NBCU Leased Real Property and Contracts related to
transactions involving the Library entered into in the ordinary course of
business) and in respect of which the NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities would
reasonably be expected to make, on or after the date hereof, aggregate payments
in excess of $50 million; 

(iii)     (A)
joint venture, partnership and limited liability company operating agreements
pursuant to which a NBCU Transferor or any of the NBCU Entities would reasonably
be expected to make, on or after the date hereof, aggregate payments in excess
of $75 million, (B) organizational documents of other material joint ventures,
partnerships and limited liability companies included in the NBCU Assets and (C)
organizational documents or other Contracts relating to other joint ventures,
partnerships and limited liability companies included in the NBCU Assets in
which GE and its Subsidiaries own an interest with a value in excess of $25
million, containing rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments obligating
any party thereto to issue, sell, purchase, return, convert or redeem any of the
shares or other equity interests of such joint venture, partnership or limited
liability company or securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares
or other equity securities; 

(iv)     Contracts
prohibiting or materially restricting the ability of any NBCU Transferor or any
Material NBCU Entity to (A) engage in any business, (B) sell any products or
services to any other Person, (C) operate in any geographical area or
(D) compete with or obtain products or services from any Person or prohibit
or restrict the ability of any Person to  

33 

provide
products or services to any NBCU Transferor or any NBCU Entity, in each case,
other than (x) exclusivity and channel distribution restrictions contained in
Exploitation Agreements or Affiliation Agreements and (y) exclusivity
restrictions contained in sourcing agreements that would not reasonably be
expected to involve annual payments in excess of $10 million, in each case (x)
and (y), entered into in the ordinary course of business; 

(v)     Contracts
relating to the borrowing of money or extension of credit that would reasonably
be expected to involve amounts in excess of $50 million to which any NBCU
Transferor or NBCU Entity is a party; 

(vi)     Exploitation
Agreements (A) pursuant to which the NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities
would reasonably be expected to receive annual revenue in excess of $25 million
for fiscal year 2009, and/or (B) in respect of which the NBCU Transferors and
NBCU Entities would reasonably be expected to make payments in excess of (x) $25
million in fiscal year 2010 or 2011 or (y) $100 million in any other fiscal
year, other than, in each case under (A) or (B) above, any Contract of the type
(disregarding any dollar thresholds, materiality or other qualifiers,
restrictions or other limitations applied to such Contract type) described in
clause  (ix)  of this  Section 3.14  (a) ; 

(vii)     Affiliation
Agreements representing the top ten (ranked by aggregate distribution fees
payable during the nine month period ending on September 30, 2009) programming
service distribution agreements; 

(viii)      term
deals  as commonly understood in the motion picture or television industry
pursuant to which the relevant NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities would
reasonably be expected to pay, on or after the date hereof, aggregate
compensation in excess of $10 million; 

(ix)     each
Contract pursuant to which any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity licenses any
exhibition rights in Programs to third parties for any period ending on or after
September 30, 2009 on an output basis (i.e., which grants television exhibition
rights to Library Pictures, or films that will become Library Pictures, that
will become available for such exhibition during a specified prospective
multiyear period of time, and under which not all Library Pictures are
specifically identified by title) pursuant to which the relevant NBCU
Transferors and NBCU Entities would reasonably be expected to receive annual
revenue in excess of $25 million for fiscal year 2009; 

(x)     Contracts
between any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity, on the one hand, and the owners of
broadcast television stations in the top  

34 

50
designated market areas, on the other hand, pursuant to which NBCU broadcast
network programming is provided to and telecast by such broadcast television
stations, excluding local broadcast station syndication licenses (the   Broadcast TV
Agreements   

(xi)     material
NBCU IP Licenses, other than any (A)  shrinkwrap  or  clickwrap  licenses
or agreements for commercially available off-the-shelf Software, (B)
confidentiality agreements made in the ordinary course of business, or (C) any
Contract of the type (disregarding any dollar thresholds, materiality or other
qualifiers, restrictions or other limitations applied to such Contract type)
described in clauses  (i) - (x)  or  (xii) - (xiv)  of this  Section
3.14  (a) ; 

(xii)     the
Talent Contracts representing, as of the date hereof, the top 10 Talent
Contracts (based on the aggregate amount of payments reasonably expected to be
made by the relevant NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities) and the employment
agreements of the chief executive officer of NBCU and each of his direct reports
(to the extent that such individuals are party to employment
agreements); 

(xiii)     infomercial
or similar paid programming Contracts granting any Person the right to program
any block of time on the Stations or cable networks included in the NBCU Assets
pursuant to which the relevant NBCU Transferors and NBCU Entities would
reasonably be expected to receive, on or after the date hereof, aggregate
consideration in excess of $10 million; 

(xiv)     Contracts
for the acquisition, lease or servicing of satellite transponders and other
uplink and downlink and terrestrial transmission (including fiber optic)
arrangements relating to the distribution of the broadcast and cable networks of
the NBCU Businesses and in respect of which the relevant NBCU Transferors and
NBCU Entities would reasonably be expected to make, on or after the date hereof,
aggregate payments in excess of $2.5 million; 

(xv)     the
Contracts listed on  Section 3.14(a)(xv)  of the NBCU
Disclosure Letter; and 

(xvi)     Contracts
not of a type (disregarding any dollar threshold amounts, materiality or other
qualifiers, restrictions or other limitations applied to such Contract type)
described in the foregoing clauses  (i)  through  (xv)  that would reasonably be expected to involve
payments in excess of $100 million. 

(b)     Each
Significant NBCU Contract is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the
applicable NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity, as the case may  

35 

be,
and, to the Knowledge of NBCU, each other party to such Significant NBCU
Contract (other than Comcast or its Affiliates), and is enforceable against the
applicable NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity, as the case may be, and, to the
Knowledge of NBCU, each such other party (other than Comcast or its Affiliates),
in accordance with its terms subject, in each case, to the effect of any
applicable Laws relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium,
fraudulent conveyance or preferential transfers, or similar Laws relating to or
affecting creditors  rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to the
effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether such
enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at
law).  Assuming the receipt of all consents or approvals required in
connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement pursuant to the Contracts set forth on   Section
3.04   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter, neither the NBCU Transferors nor
the NBCU Entities nor, to the Knowledge of NBCU, any other party to a
Significant NBCU Contract is in material default or material breach of a
Significant NBCU Contract, and there does not exist any event, condition or
omission that would constitute such a material default or material breach
(whether by lapse of time or notice or both) under any Significant NBCU Contract
on the part of any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity or, to the Knowledge of NBCU,
any other Person (other than Comcast or its Affiliates).  NBCU has
made available to Comcast complete copies of all written Significant NBCU
Contracts, together with any amendments thereto, and accurate descriptions of
all material terms of any oral Significant NBCU Contracts, in each case, other
than the Contracts listed on   Section
3.14(b)   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter.    Section
3.14(b)   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of
Significant NBCU Contracts with respect to which NBCU has made available to
Comcast descriptions of certain provisions.  All such descriptions are
accurate and complete. 

(c)     None
of the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities has received, within the three (3)
years ending on the date hereof, any written notice of any violation or breach
of any MFN included in any Affiliation Agreement. 

(d)     Neither
NBCU nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or bound by and the NBCU Assets
do not contain any Contract that, by its terms, would bind Affiliates of Newco
(other than the NBCU Entities) with respect to their business operations after
giving effect to the Closing. NBCU has made available to Comcast accurate and
complete copies of the provisions referenced on  Section
3.14(d)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter. 

Section
3.15      .  Employment and Employee
Benefits Matters.   (a)  Section
3.15(a)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth a list, as of the date
hereof, of all material NBCU Employee Plans and separately identifies (i) the
material NBCU Parent Plans, (ii) the material NBCU Subsidiary Plans (other than
NBCU Multiemployer Plans), (iii) the NBCU Multiemployer Plans covering 50 or
more active NBCU Employees employed in the United States and the material NBCU

36 

Multiemployer
Plans covering NBCU Employees employed outside of the United States, (iv) the
NBCU Employee Plans (other than NBCU Multiemployer Plans) constituting plans
subject to Title IV of ERISA or other defined benefit pension plans covering 50
or more NBCU Employees, (v) each NBCU Employee Plan (other than any
Multiemployer Plan) that provides for post-retirement medical coverage for 50 or
more NBCU Employees (excluding coverage as required to avoid an excise tax under
section 4980B of the Code, coverage through the end of the calendar month in
which retirement occurs, post-employment coverage under a medical expense
reimbursement account and coverage during any severance benefits period), and
(vi) to the Knowledge of NBCU, the principal labor agreements covering the
current material terms and conditions of employment with each union or labor
organization, collective bargaining unit, works council or other employee
representative that applies to NBCU Employees.  NBCU has previously
made available to Comcast a true and complete copy of each NBCU Employee Plan
(other than Multiemployer Plans) covering NBCU Employees employed in the United
States and a summary or written description of each material NBCU Employee Plan
applicable to NBCU Employees employed in countries other than the United
States. 

(b)     To
the Knowledge of NBCU, as of the date hereof, no NBCU Multiemployer Plan is in
critical, endangered, or seriously endangered status as described in Section 305
of ERISA, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006. 

(c)     Each
NBCU Employee Plan (and, as of the date hereof, with respect to any
Multiemployer Plan, solely to the Knowledge of NBCU without any inquiry) that is
intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a
favorable determination letter from the IRS that it is so qualified, and each
related trust that is intended to be exempt from federal income Tax pursuant to
Section 501(a) of the Code has received a determination letter from the IRS that
it is so exempt, and no event has occurred since the date of such determination
letter that would reasonably be expected to adversely affect such qualification
or exemption, as the case may be.  Each NBCU Employee Plan (other than
any Multiemployer Plan) that is required to be registered in order to obtain
tax-approved, favored or qualified status in the relevant jurisdiction has been
registered or, where applicable, accepted for registration, and has been
maintained in good standing with applicable Governmental Authorities, except as
would not reasonably be expected to have a NBCU Material Adverse
Effect. 

(d)     With
respect to each NBCU Employee Plan (other than any Multiemployer Plan) subject
to Title IV of ERISA, there is no liability incurred under Title IV of ERISA
that has not been satisfied in full (other than premiums to the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation which are not past due or amounts reflected in the NBCU
Financial Statements).  None of the NBCU Assets is the subject of any
Lien arising under ERISA or Section 412 of the Code.  With

37 

respect
to each NBCU Employee Plan (other than any Multiemployer Plan) that is a
registered pension plan, no Person has (i) withdrawn any funds from the plan;
(ii) merged any of the plans with another registered pension plan; (iii)
transferred assets from another registered pension plan to the plan; (iv) taken
a contribution holiday in respect of the plan; or (v) used assets from the plan
to pay administrative expenses of the plan, except, in each such case,
(A) in accordance with terms of the respective plan (and any applicable
funding agreement) and applicable Law; or (B) as to which there is no
material Liability. 

(e)     Each
NBCU Employee Plan (other than Multiemployer Plans) is now and has been operated
in all material respects in accordance with its terms and the requirements of
all applicable Laws. 

(f)     There
are no material controversies (other than routine benefit claims for benefits in
the ordinary course) pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened in
connection with any NBCU Subsidiary Plan (other than any Multiemployer Plan) or,
except as would not reasonably be expected to have a NBCU Material Adverse
Effect, any other NBCU Employee Plan (other than any Multiemployer
Plan). 

(g)     None
of the NBCU Transferors, the NBCU Entities or their respective Affiliates has
breached or otherwise failed to comply in any material respect with the
provisions of any collective bargaining, works council or similar employee
representative agreement, and as of the date hereof there are no material
grievances or arbitrations outstanding thereunder.  There are no
formal organizational campaigns, corporate campaigns, petitions, demands for
recognition via card-check or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, other material
unionization activities seeking recognition of a bargaining unit in the NBCU
Businesses.  As of the date hereof, there are no material unfair labor
practice charges, grievances, pending arbitrations, or other complaints or union
representation questions before the National Labor Relations Board or other
labor board or Governmental Authority that could materially affect NBCU
Employees and would reasonably be expected to result in a material Liability to
the Newco Group. 

(h)     As
of the date hereof, there are no current or, to the Knowledge of NBCU,
threatened material strikes, slowdowns or work stoppages, and no such material
strike, slowdown or work stoppage has occurred within the three years preceding
the date hereof.  Except as would not reasonably be expected to result
in a material Liability to the NBCU Businesses, the NBCU Transferors, the NBCU
Entities and their respective Affiliates have, in all material respects,
informed and consulted with their respective employee representative bodies to
the degree required by applicable Laws and applicable collective bargaining,
works council or similar employee representative agreements, including but not
limited to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. 

38 

(i)     Each
of the NBCU Transferors, the NBCU Entities and their respective Affiliates (in
the case of the NBCU Transferors and their Affiliates that are not NBCU
Entities, with respect to NBCU Employees only) are in compliance in all material
respects with all applicable Laws relating to the employment of NBCU Employees
(including employment or labor standards, labor relations, human rights,
immigration, workers  compensation, severance payment, payment of wages, the
WARN Act and any similar state or local law, classification of independent
contractor or other non-employee status and of exempt and non-exempt employees,
pay equity, data protection and Automatic Transfer Legislation) and, except for
amounts reflected in the NBCU Financial Statements or non-compliance which would
not result in a material Liability to NBCU or any of its Affiliates, have timely
paid in full all wages, salaries, benefits, commissions and other compensation,
and all levies, assessments, contributions and payments to third parties
(including social security or social insurance, housing fund, employment
insurance, income tax, employer health tax, workers compensation, Multiemployer
Plan contributions, or payments of its contributions with respect to social
security agencies, family benefits agencies and any retirement and unemployment
related agencies or other payments of tax and social security payments to
Governmental Authorities) due to or on behalf of the NBCU
Employees.  Except for accrued amounts that are not past due and
non-compliance which would not reasonably be expected to result in a material
Liability to NBCU or any of its Affiliates, each of the NBCU Transferors, the
NBCU Entities and their respective Affiliates has withheld, and paid to the
relevant Governmental Authority, proper and accurate amounts from salaries and
wages due to the NBCU Employees in due compliance in all material respects with
relevant tax withholding provisions.  No material claim with respect
to payment of wages, salary or overtime pay has been asserted, or is now pending
or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened before any Governmental Authority, with
respect to NBCU Employees, and there is no charge or proceeding with respect to
a material violation of any occupational safety or health standards that has
been asserted or is now pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened with
respect to the NBCU Businesses.  No material charge of discrimination
in employment or employment practices for any reason, including age, gender,
race, religion or other legally protected category, has been asserted or is now
pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened before the United States Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission or other Governmental Authority by NBCU
Employees.  As of the date hereof, none of the NBCU Transferors, the
NBCU Entities or their respective Affiliates (in the case of the NBCU
Transferors and their Affiliates that are not NBCU Entities, with respect to
NBCU Employees only) is subject to any pending investigation from any labor
inspection or similar Governmental Authority which could reasonably be expected
to result in any material payment.  There is no other material Action
existing, pending or, to the Knowledge of NBCU, threatened by NBCU Employees
against any NBCU Transferor, any NBCU Entity or any of their respective
Affiliates, and there are  

39 

no
matters that would reasonably be expected to give rise to any such material
Actions. 

(j)     To
the Knowledge of NBCU, no NBCU Employee has been, is or will be, by performing
services for the Newco Group, in violation of any term of any employment,
invention disclosure or assignment, confidentiality, nondisclosure agreement,
noncompetition agreement or other restrictive covenant or any order, other than
any violation that would not have a material Liability. 

(k)     In
the event the services of each NBCU Employee who, as of the date hereof, is a
party to a NBCU Employee Agreement set forth in   Section
3.14   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter was terminated on January 1, 2010,
the aggregate amount of such NBCU Employees  severance or termination pay or
claim for damages to the extent attributable solely to annual base salary is set
forth in  Section 3.15(k)  of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter.   Section 3.15(k)  of the NBCU
Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of all NBCU Employee Plans (other than any
Multiemployer Plan) pursuant to which any amounts or benefits may become vested
or payable, funded, increased or accelerated, as a result of the consummation of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (either alone or in combination
with any other event or events), including, as to any such NBCU Employee Plan
constituting an employee pension benefit plan, any employer debt under Section
75 of the Pensions Act 1995, any withdrawal or termination penalty, or other
similar penalty.  There are no NBCU Employee Plans (other than any
Multiemployer Plan) which provide for the payment of any amount (whether in cash
or property or the vesting of property) as a result of any of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement (either alone or in combination with any other
event or events) that would give rise to a material payment that is
nondeductible by reason of Section 280G. 

Section
3.16      .  NBCU Real
Property.    (a)   Section
3.16(a)   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth a list, as of the
date hereof, of all of the material NBCU Owned Real Properties and the material
NBCU Leased Real Properties.   

(b)     As
of the date hereof, the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities have good and
valid fee simple title to all material NBCU Owned Real Property and valid
leasehold title to the leasehold estate (as lessee or sublessee) in all material
NBCU Leased Real Property, in each case free and clear of all Liens except for
Permitted Liens. 

(c)     (i) All
leases and subleases for the material NBCU Leased Real Property under which any
of the NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities is a lessee or sublessee are in full
force and effect and are enforceable, in all material respects, in accordance
with their respective terms, subject to the effect of any applicable Laws
relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent
conveyance or preferential transfers, or similar Laws relating to or

40 

affecting
creditors  rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to the effect of
general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is
considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and (ii) no written
notices of material default under any such lease or sublease have been sent or
received by any NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities. 

(d)     None
of the NBCU Transferors or NBCU Entities has received any written notice from
any Governmental Authority asserting any material violation or alleged material
violation of applicable Laws with respect to any NBCU Real Properties that
remains uncured as of the date of this Agreement. 

(e)     The
plants, buildings, structures and fixtures material to the NBCU Businesses
included in the NBCU Assets are adequate for their present uses. 

(f)     The
plants, buildings and structures material to the NBCU Businesses included in the
NBCU Assets currently (i) have access to public roads or valid and subsisting
easements, rights of way or private agreements (including, without limitation,
leases) for access over private streets or private property for such ingress to
and egress from all such plants, buildings and structures, and (ii) are serviced
by such utilities as are necessary for the particular operations of NBCU taking
place on the date hereof at each such plant, building or structure. 

(g)     Subject
to  Section 2.05 , all real property material to the
NBCU Businesses is included in either the NBCU Owned Real Property or the NBCU
Leased Real Property. 

Section
3.17      .  Insurance.   (a)
All material insurance policies maintained by or for the benefit of the NBCU
Businesses, including all existing errors and omission insurance policies, are
in full force and effect.  The NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities
have complied in all material respects with the terms and provisions of such
policies.  No claim has been made since January 1, 2006 with respect
to the Library Rights under any errors and omissions policy maintained by or for
the benefit of the NBCU Businesses. 

(b)       Section
3.17(b)   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete
list, as of the date hereof, of (i) all NBCU Related Insurance Policies and (ii)
all NBCU Exclusive Insurance Policies. 

Section
3.18      .  Related Party
Transactions.   (a)  Section 3.18(a) 
of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete description, as of
the date hereof, of all Related Party NBCU Contracts or other arrangements
between GE and its Subsidiaries (other any NBCU Entity) on the one hand, and any
NBCU Entity, on the other hand. 

41 

(b)       Section
3.18(b)   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date
hereof, a true and complete list of all GE LCs and, if applicable, the aggregate
potential Liability under each such GE LC. 

Section
3.19      .  Library
Rights.    (a)
As between (i) GE and its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) on the one
hand, and (ii) any NBCU Entity on the other hand, any and all rights in and to
the Library (and any databases relating thereto) are held by the NBCU Entities
(rather than by GE or any of its other Subsidiaries). 

(b)     All
Exploitation Agreements entered into by a NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity
pursuant to which a NBCU Transferor or a NBCU Entity has granted any third party
any right to Exploit any material portions of the Library or its components have
been entered into in the ordinary course of business. 

(c)     None
of the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities have received (nor does NBCU have
any Knowledge that the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities will receive) from
any registration or filing office of requisite authority in any jurisdiction,
any notice from any third party terminating or purporting to terminate copyright
assignments pursuant to 17 U.S.C   203 or   304 or their foreign
equivalents and relating to the Programs. 

(d)     An
original negative or master of each of the Library Pictures currently being
Exploited has been properly stored, in each case in accordance with standards
customarily applied by major theatrical, television and home video distributors,
as applicable, or the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities has access to
printable elements of such Library Pictures.  Such original negatives,
masters or printable elements are, in all material respects, in a commercially
reasonable condition.   Section 3.19(d)  of
the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date hereof, a list, which is
true and complete in all material respects, of the physical locations of such
original negatives, masters, or printable elements, and to the extent such
physical locations are owned or controlled by third parties, the NBCU
Transferors and the NBCU Entities are party to customary access
agreements. 

(e)     The
Library Tangible Assets for the Programs are stored and maintained in all
material respects in accordance with standard industry practices for the use and
preservation of such materials, and the NBCU Entities have customary access
thereto sufficient to Exploit the Programs. 

Section
3.20      .  Distribution.    (a) To the Knowledge of
NBCU as of the date hereof, each distributor that is party to an Affiliation
Agreement with a NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity is meeting its payment
obligations under such Affiliation Agreement in accordance with the terms of
such Affiliation Agreement, other than the nonpayment of amounts that are
subject to a  bona fide 

42 

dispute,
controversy or claim.  No NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity is in
material default or material breach of any such Affiliation Agreement, and there
does not exist any event, condition or omission that would constitute such a
material default or material breach (whether by lapse of time or notice or both)
under any such Affiliation Agreement on the part of any NBCU Transferor or NBCU
Entity. 

(b)     With
respect to any material Affiliation Agreement containing a delete or
repositioning right, no multichannel video programming distributor has notified
any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity in writing of its intention to delete or
materially reposition any programming service. 

(c)       Section
3.20(c)   of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of September 30,
2009, the number of subscribers with respect to each network of the NBCU
Transferors and NBCU Entities as most recently reported by the applicable
distributor. 

Section
3.21      .  No Debt as of
Closing.   Immediately prior to the Closing, none of the NBCU
Entities shall have any outstanding Debt, other than the NBCU Financing or
Alternative Financing, as applicable, the Repatriation Notes (if any), Debt of
any Subsidiary that is not, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by NBCU and
capital lease obligations. 

Section
3.22      .  Comcast/NBCU
Sale.   Subject to the consummation of the transactions
contemplated by  Section 2.02  and  Section 2.03 , as of immediately prior to the Closing,
Navy Holdco 2 will be the sole owner of the Newco Membership Interests to be
sold to Comcast pursuant to  Section 2.04 , free and
clear of Liens (other than the restrictions set forth in the Newco Operating
Agreement). 

Section
3.23      .  NBCU
Financing.   NBCU has delivered to Comcast a true and complete
copy of the Commitment Letter, dated as of December 3, 2009 (including the
exhibits thereto), among NBCU and the lenders party thereto (the   NBCU Financing Commitment
Letter   and the financing contemplated thereby, the   NBCU
Financing  ).  The NBCU Financing Commitment Letter is a valid
and binding obligation of NBCU and, to the Knowledge of NBCU, the other parties
thereto and, as of the date of this Agreement, has not been amended or modified
in any respect, and, to the Knowledge of NBCU, the respective commitments
contained in the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter have not been withdrawn,
modified or rescinded in any respect prior to the date of this
Agreement.  There are no conditions precedent or contingencies related
to the funding of the full amount of the NBCU Financing (including pursuant to
any  flex  provisions), other than as expressly set forth in the NBCU Financing
Commitment Letter.  As of the date of this Agreement, no event has
occurred with respect to the NBCU Businesses which, with or without notice,
lapse of time  

43 

or
both, would constitute a default or event of default on the part of NBCU under
any term or condition of the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter, and as of the
date of this Agreement, NBCU has no reason to believe that it will be unable to
satisfy on a timely basis any term or condition of closing or funding to be
satisfied by it pursuant to the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter.  The
NBCU Financing, when funded in accordance with, and subject to the terms and
conditions of, the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter will provide NBCU with funds
sufficient to pay the NBCU Dividend in full. 

Section
3.24      .  No Other
Representations or Warranties.   EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS
AND WARRANTIES CONTAINED IN THIS ARTICLE  3  (AS
MODIFIED BY THE NBCU DISCLOSURE LETTER) AND IN THE OTHER TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS,
NEITHER NBCU NOR ANY OTHER PERSON (EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
OF GE CONTAINED IN ARTICLE 4) MAKES ANY OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATION
OR WARRANTY WITH RESPECT THE NBCU TRANSFERORS, THE NBCU ASSETS, THE NBCU
ENTITIES, THE NBCU BUSINESSES OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS
AGREEMENT, THE ASSUMED NBCU LIABILITIES AND ANY OTHER RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS TO
BE TRANSFERRED HEREUNDER OR PURSUANT HERETO, AND NBCU AND GE DISCLAIM ANY OTHER
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, WHETHER MADE BY NBCU, GE OR THEIR RESPECTIVE
AFFILIATES, OR ANY OF THEIR OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR
REPRESENTATIVES.  EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN THE
ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS, NBCU AND GE HEREBY DISCLAIM ALL LIABILITY AND
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY, PROJECTION, FORECAST,
STATEMENT, OR INFORMATION MADE, COMMUNICATED, OR FURNISHED (ORALLY OR IN
WRITING) TO COMCAST, NEWCO OR THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES OR REPRESENTATIVES
(INCLUDING ANY OPINION, INFORMATION, PROJECTION, OR ADVICE THAT MAY HAVE BEEN OR
MAY BE PROVIDED TO COMCAST OR NEWCO BY ANY DIRECTOR, OFFICER, EMPLOYEE, AGENT,
CONSULTANT, OR REPRESENTATIVE OF NBCU OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES).  NBCU
AND GE MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES REGARDING THE PROBABLE SUCCESS OR
PROFITABILITY OF THE NBCU BUSINESSES, THE NBCU ENTITIES OR THE NBCU
ASSETS. 

ARTICLE
4   Representations
and Warranties of GE 

GE
hereby represents and warrants to Newco and Comcast that, except as set forth in
the GE Disclosure Letter: 

44 

Section
4.01      .  Incorporation,
Qualification and Authority.   (a) Each of GE, Newco, the NBCU
Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 is a corporation or other
organization duly incorporated or organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the Laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and
has all necessary power to enter into, consummate the transactions contemplated
by, and carry out its obligations under, the Transaction Agreements to which it
is a party.  Each of GE, Newco, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1
and Navy Holdco 2 is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other
organization to do business, and, to the extent legally applicable, is in good
standing, in each jurisdiction where the character of its owned, operated or
leased properties or the nature of its activities makes such qualification
necessary, except for jurisdictions where the failure to be so qualified or in
good standing would not reasonably be expected to, individually or in the
aggregate, have a NBCU Material Adverse Effect. 

(b)     The
execution, delivery and performance by GE, Newco, the NBCU Transferors, Navy
Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 of the Transaction Agreements to which they are
parties and the consummation by GE, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy
Holdco 2 of the transactions contemplated by, and the performance by GE, Newco,
the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 under, the Transaction
Agreements to which they are parties have been (or, in the case of the NBCU
Transferors other than GE, will be, prior to the Closing) duly authorized by all
requisite action on the part of GE, Newco, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1
and Navy Holdco 2.  This Agreement has been and, upon execution and
delivery, the other Transaction Agreements to which GE, Newco, any NBCU
Transferor, Navy Holdco 1 or Navy Holdco 2 is a party will be, duly executed and
delivered by GE, Newco, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2,
as applicable, and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the
other parties hereto and thereto) this Agreement constitutes and, upon execution
and delivery, the other Transaction Agreements will constitute, legal, valid and
binding obligations of GE, Newco, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy
Holdco 2, as applicable, enforceable against GE, Newco, the NBCU Transferors,
Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2, as applicable, in accordance with their terms,
subject to the effect of any applicable Laws relating to bankruptcy,
reorganization, insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or preferential
transfers, or similar Laws relating to or affecting creditors  rights generally
and subject, as to enforceability, to the effect of general principles of equity
(regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in
equity or at law). 

(c)     GE
has previously made available to Comcast complete and correct copies of the
organizational documents of NBCU and each of the NBCU Transferors that is not
wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by GE, as amended through the date
hereof.  The organizational documents of NBCU and each NBCU Transferor
are in full force and effect, and no resolution is pending or has  

45 

been
adopted providing for the amendment thereof (except as reflected therein) or for
the dissolution or winding up of any such company.  Neither NBCU nor
any NBCU Transferor is in violation of any of the provisions of its
organizational documents. 

(d)     Each
of Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 is a wholly owned Subsidiary of
GE.  As of immediately prior to the Closing, Navy Holdco 2 shall own,
directly or indirectly, all outstanding NBCU Shares free and clear of any Liens
(other than Permitted Liens or any restrictions under the Securities Act or
other applicable securities Laws). 

(e)     GE
has previously made available to Comcast complete and correct copies of all
Contracts between GE and any of its Subsidiaries (including the NBCU Entities),
on the one hand, and Vivendi and any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand,
that relate to or affect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (each
such Contract, a   Vivendi
Agreement  ). 

Section
4.02      .  No
Conflict.   Provided that all consents, approvals,
authorizations and other actions described in  Section
3.05  and  Section 4.03  have been obtained or
taken, the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by GE, Newco,
the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 and the other Transaction
Agreements to which GE, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 or Navy Holdco 2 is
or will at Closing be a party, and the consummation by GE, Newco, the NBCU
Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 of the transactions contemplated
hereby and thereby, do not and will not (a) violate or conflict with any of the
articles of incorporation or bylaws or similar organizational documents of GE or
any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity), (b) conflict with or
violate any Law or Governmental Order applicable to GE or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) or any of their respective properties
or (c) result in any breach of, or constitute a default (or an event which, with
the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become a default) under,
or give to any Person any rights of termination, amendment, acceleration or
cancellation of, or result in the creation of any Lien (other than a Permitted
Lien) on any of the NBCU Assets pursuant to, or require a consent or approval
under any note, bond, mortgage or indenture, contract, agreement, lease,
license, permit, franchise or other material instrument to which GE or any of
its Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of their respective properties is
bound or affected; except, in the case of clauses (b) and (c), for any such
conflicts, violations, breaches, defaults, rights or Liens as, individually or
in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a
NBCU Material Adverse Effect and would not materially impair or delay the
ability of any of GE, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 or Navy Holdco 2 to
consummate the transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations under,
the Transaction Agreements to which it is a party. 

46 

Section
4.03      .  Consents and
Approvals.   The execution, delivery and performance by GE,
Newco, the NBCU Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 of the Transaction
Agreements to which GE, Newco, any NBCU Transferor, Navy Holdco 1 or Navy Holdco
2 is a party do not, and the performance by GE, the NBCU Transferors, Navy
Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 of, and the consummation by GE, Newco, the NBCU
Transferors, Navy Holdco 1 and Navy Holdco 2 of the transactions contemplated
by, the Transaction Agreements will not, require any consent, approval,
authorization or other action by, or any filing with or notification to, any
Governmental Authority, except (a) in connection, or in compliance, with the
notification and waiting period requirements of the HSR Act and applicable
filings or approvals under non-U.S. antitrust and competition Laws, (b) in
connection, or in compliance, with the applicable requirements of the
Communications Act, (c) where the failure to obtain such consent, approval,
authorization or action or to make such filing or notification has not had and
would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a
NBCU Material Adverse Effect and would not materially impair or delay the
ability of any of GE, Newco, any NBCU Transferor, Navy Holdco 1 or Navy Holdco 2
to consummate the transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations
under, the Transaction Agreements to which it is a party and (d) as may be
required as a result of any facts or circumstances relating to Comcast or its
Affiliates. 

Section
4.04      .  Brokers.   Except
for fees and expenses of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs   Co.,
Inc. and Citigroup Global Capital Markets, in connection with their rendering of
investment banking advice to GE and its Affiliates, no broker, finder or
investment banker is entitled to any brokerage, finder s or other fee or
commission from GE or any of its Affiliates (including NBCU and Newco) in
connection with transactions contemplated hereby based upon arrangements made by
or on behalf of GE or any of its Affiliates. 

Section
4.05      .  Securities
Matters.   (a) The NBCU Shares are being obtained by Newco for
its own account, and not with a view to, or for the offer or sale in connection
with, any distribution or sale of the NBCU Shares or any interest in them in
violation of the Securities Act (or analogous Laws in any non-U.S.
jurisdiction).  Newco acknowledges that the NBCU Shares have not been
registered under the Securities Act or any state securities Laws, and
understands and agrees that it may not sell or dispose of any of the NBCU Shares
except pursuant to a registered offering in compliance with, or in a transaction
exempt from, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any other
applicable state, foreign or federal securities Laws. 

(b)     Except
as set forth in  Section 2.04 , the Newco Membership
Interests are being obtained by Navy Holdco 2 for its own account, and not with
a view to, or for the offer or sale in connection with, any distribution or sale
of the Newco Membership Interests or any interest in them in violation of the
Securities Act (or  

47 

analogous
Laws in any non-U.S. jurisdiction).  Navy Holdco 2 acknowledges that
the Newco Membership Interests have not been registered under the Securities Act
or any state securities Laws, and understands and agrees that it may not sell or
dispose of any of the Newco Membership Interests except pursuant to a registered
offering in compliance with, or in a transaction exempt from, the registration
requirements of the Securities Act and any other applicable state, foreign or
federal securities Laws. 

Section
4.06      .  Newco.    (a) Newco is a limited
liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under
the Laws of Delaware.  Navy Holdco 2 is the sole member of
Newco.  Newco was formed solely for the purpose of engaging in the
transactions contemplated hereby, has engaged in no other business activities
and has conducted its operations only as contemplated hereby.  Except
for obligations expressly incurred under provisions contained in the Transaction
Agreements, the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter and the Alternative Financing
Agreements, as applicable, Newco has no Liabilities (whether accrued, absolute,
contingent or otherwise). 

(b)     The
execution, delivery and performance by Newco of the Transaction Agreements to
which it is party and the consummation by Newco of the transactions contemplated
by, and the performance by Newco under, the Transaction Agreements to which it
is a party, have been duly authorized by all requisite action on the part of
Newco and the members of Newco.  This Agreement has been and, upon
execution and delivery, the other Transaction Agreements to which Newco is a
party will be, duly executed and delivered by Newco, and (assuming due
authorization, execution and delivery by the other parties hereto and thereto)
this Agreement constitutes and, upon execution and delivery, the other
Transaction Agreements will constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of
Newco, enforceable against Newco in accordance with their terms, subject to the
effect of any applicable Laws relating to bankruptcy, reorganization,
insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or preferential transfers, or
similar Laws relating to or affecting creditors  rights generally and subject,
as to enforceability, to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless
of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at
law). 

(c)     GE
has previously made available to Comcast a complete and correct copy of the
organizational documents of Newco, as amended through the date
hereof.  The organizational documents of Newco are in full force and
effect, and no resolution is pending or has been adopted providing for the
amendment thereof (except as reflected therein) or for the dissolution or
winding up of Newco.  Newco is not in violation of any of the
provisions of its organizational documents. 

48 

ARTICLE
5   Representations
and Warranties of Comcast 

Comcast
hereby represents and warrants to Newco and GE that, except as set forth in the
Comcast Disclosure Letter: 

Section
5.01      .  Incorporation,
Qualification and Authority.    (a) Each of the Comcast
Transferors is a corporation or other organization duly incorporated or
organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of its
jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has all necessary power to
enter into, consummate the transactions contemplated by, and carry out its
obligations under, the Transaction Agreements to which it is a
party.  Each of the Comcast Transferors is duly qualified as a foreign
corporation or other organization to do business, and, to the extent legally
applicable, is in good standing, in each jurisdiction where the character of its
owned, operated or leased properties or the nature of its activities makes such
qualification necessary, except for jurisdictions where the failure to be so
qualified or in good standing would not reasonably be expected to, individually
or in the aggregate, have a Comcast Material Adverse Effect. 

(b)           The
execution, delivery and performance by the Comcast Transferors of the
Transaction Agreements to which they are parties and the consummation by the
Comcast Transferors of the transactions contemplated by, and the performance by
the Comcast Transferors under, the Transaction Agreements to which they are
parties, have been (or, in the case of Comcast Transferors other than Comcast,
will be, prior to the Closing) duly authorized by all requisite action on the
part of the Comcast Transferors.  This Agreement has been and, upon
execution and delivery, the other Transaction Agreements to which any Comcast
Transferor is a party will be, duly executed and delivered by the Comcast
Transferors party hereto and thereto, and (assuming due authorization, execution
and delivery by the other parties hereto and thereto) this Agreement constitutes
and, upon execution and delivery, the other Transaction Agreements will
constitute, legal, valid and binding obligations of the Comcast Transferors
party hereto and thereto, enforceable against such parties in accordance with
their terms, subject to the effect of any applicable Laws relating to
bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or
preferential transfers, or similar Laws relating to or affecting creditors 
rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to the effect of general
principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in
a proceeding in equity or at law). 

(c)           Comcast
has previously made available to NBCU complete and correct copies of the
organizational documents of each of the Comcast Transferors that is not wholly
owned, directly or indirectly, by Comcast, as amended through the date
hereof.  The organizational documents of each  

49 

Comcast
Transferor are in full force and effect, and no resolution is pending or has
been adopted providing for the amendment thereof (except as reflected therein)
or for the dissolution or winding up of any such company.  No Comcast
Transferor is in violation of any of the provisions of its organizational
documents. 

Section
5.02      .  Incorporation and
Qualification of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries.    (a) Except as would not
reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, have a Comcast
Material Adverse Effect, each of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries is a
corporation or other organization duly incorporated or organized, validly
existing and, to the extent legally applicable, in good standing under the Laws
of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization.  Each of the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has the requisite power and authority to
operate its business as now conducted, is duly qualified as a foreign
corporation or other organization to do business and, to the extent legally
applicable, is in good standing in each jurisdiction where the character of its
owned, operated or leased properties or the nature of its activities makes such
qualification necessary, except for jurisdictions where the failure to be so
qualified or in good standing would not reasonably be expected to, individually
or in the aggregate, have a Comcast Material Adverse Effect. 

(b)           The
organizational documents of each Contributed Comcast Subsidiary are in full
force and effect.  No Contributed Comcast Subsidiary is in violation
of any of the provisions of its organizational documents.  Comcast has
previously made available to NBCU complete and correct copies of the
organizational documents of each of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as
amended through the date hereof. 

Section
5.03      .  Capital Structure of
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries and Other Equity
Interests.   (a)  Section 5.03  of
the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth the ownership percentages of each class
of capital stock or other equity interests outstanding of each Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary held by Comcast or its Subsidiaries, except for changes
resulting from the consummation of the Comcast Restructuring.  All of
the outstanding shares or other equity interests of each of the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries have been duly authorized and validly issued, and are fully
paid (solely with respect to any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary that is a
corporation) and nonassessable and were not issued in violation of any
preemptive rights or any Law (including any federal or state securities
Laws).  There are no options, warrants or rights of conversion or
other rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments obligating any of the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries to issue, sell, purchase, return or redeem any
of its shares, other equity interests or securities convertible into or
exchangeable for its shares or other equity interests or any shares or other
equity interests of any of the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries.  Comcast owns, directly or indirectly, the Contributed
Comcast Equity Interests, free and clear of all Liens, except any Liens arising
out of, under or in connection with this Agreement.  There are no

50 

voting
trusts, stockholder agreements, proxies or other agreements in effect with
respect to the voting or transfer of the shares or other equity interests of any
of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries. 

(b)       Section
5.03(b)   of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth the name and
jurisdiction of each Person that (i) is not a Subsidiary of Comcast but in which
Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries holds an equity interest having a value of
$250,000 or more as reflected on the unaudited balance sheets of the Contributed
Comcast Businesses as of June 30, 2009 and (ii) operates within the scope of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses (  Comcast Minority
Interests  ).  All of the Comcast Minority Interests are owned,
directly or indirectly, by a Comcast Transferor or a Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary free and clear of any Liens (other than Permitted Liens, any
restrictions under the Securities Act and other applicable securities Laws or
other Liens provided by the agreements or organizational documents of such
entity).  None of the Comcast Transferors or any of the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries has any obligation, contingent or otherwise, to fund or
participate in the debts of any Person in which any Comcast Transferor or
Contributed Comcast Subsidiary holds a Comcast Minority Interest. 

Section
5.04      .  No
Conflict.   Provided that all consents, approvals,
authorizations and other actions described in  Section
5.05  have been obtained or taken, the execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements to which any Comcast
Transferor is or will at Closing be a party, and the consummation by such
Comcast Transferors of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, do not
and will not (a) violate or conflict with any of the articles of incorporation
or bylaws or similar organizational documents of such Comcast Transferors or any
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, (b) conflict with or violate any Law or
Governmental Order applicable to such Comcast Transferor or any Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties (including the
Comcast Assets), or (c) result in any breach of, or constitute a default (or an
event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, or both, would become a
default) under, or give to any Person any rights of termination, amendment,
acceleration or cancellation of, or result in the creation of any Lien (other
than a Permitted Lien) on any of the Comcast Assets pursuant to, or require a
consent or approval under any note, bond, mortgage or indenture, contract,
agreement, lease, license, permit, franchise or other material instrument to
which any of the Comcast Transferors or any of the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of their respective properties
(including the Comcast Assets) is bound or affected; except, in the case of
clauses  (b)  and  (c) ,
for any such conflicts, violations, breaches, defaults, rights or Liens as,
individually or in the aggregate, have not had and would not reasonably be
expected to have a Comcast Material Adverse Effect and would not materially
impair or delay the ability of any of the Comcast Transferors to consummate the
transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations under, the Transaction
Agreements to which it is a party. 

51 

Section
5.05      .  Consents and
Approvals.   The execution, delivery and performance by the
Comcast Transferors of the Transaction Agreements to which they are or will at
Closing be parties do not, and the performance by the Comcast Transferors of,
and the consummation by the Comcast Transferors of the transactions contemplated
by, the Transaction Agreements (including the transactions contemplated by  Section 6.14 ) will not, require any consent, approval,
authorization or other action by, or any filing with or notification to, any
Governmental Authority, except (a) in connection, or in compliance, with the
notification and waiting period requirements of the HSR Act and applicable
filings or approvals under non-U.S. antitrust and competition Laws, (b) in
connection, or in compliance, with the applicable requirements of the
Communications Act and applicable filings or approvals under non-U.S. Laws
governing the regulation of telecommunications and broadcasting, (c) where
the failure to obtain such consent, approval, authorization or action or to make
such filing or notification has not had and would not reasonably be expected to
have, individually or in the aggregate, a Comcast Material Adverse Effect and
would not materially impair or delay the ability of the Comcast Transferors to
consummate the transactions contemplated by, or perform their obligations under,
the Transaction Agreements and (d) as may be required as a result of any facts
or circumstances relating to GE, NBCU or their respective
Affiliates. 

Section
5.06      .  Financial Information;
Accounting Controls; Absence of Undisclosed Liabilities.   (a)
 Section 5.06(a)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter
sets forth (i) the unaudited combined balance sheet of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses at December 31, 2008 (the   Comcast Reference Balance
Sheet  ) and at December 31, 2007, (ii) the related unaudited
combined statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and
December 31, 2007, and (iii) the unaudited combined balance sheet of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses as of June 30, 2009 and the related combined
statements of operations of the Contributed Comcast Businesses for the six month
period then ended (the balance sheets and statements referred to in clauses (i),
(ii) and (iii) being herein collectively referred to as the   Comcast Financial
Statements  ).  The Comcast Financial Statements have been
prepared in all material respects in accordance with U.S. GAAP and, taken as a
whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and
results of operations of the Contributed Comcast Businesses at the respective
dates and for the periods covered by such statements in accordance with U.S.
GAAP, except for (i) the classification treatment of certain intercompany
balances, (ii) the lack of an allocation of certain Comcast corporate costs and
certain integrated Comcast corporate related accounts and balances,
(iii) the lack of a statement of cash flows and a statement of shareholders
equity, and (iv) an incomplete set of financial statement
footnotes. 

(b)     The
Comcast Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries have maintained
systems of internal accounting controls with respect to the Contributed Comcast
Businesses sufficient to provide reasonable assurance   

52 

regarding
the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for the Contributed Comcast Businesses.  Comcast has
implemented disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that material
information relating to the Contributed Comcast Businesses is made known to the
management of the Contributed Comcast Businesses by others within the
Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

(c)     The
information in any databases maintained by any Comcast Transferor or Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary to track licensing of Library Pictures for television and
home video worldwide relating to the Library of the Comcast Transferors and the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has been maintained by the Comcast Transferors
and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business, is
derived from the books and records and the Exploitation Agreements of the
Comcast Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, and is relied on
by the Comcast Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries in
conducting the Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

(d)     Except
(i) as set forth in the Comcast Financial Statements, (ii) Liabilities incurred
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice since the date
of the Comcast Reference Balance Sheet, (iii) Excluded Comcast Liabilities, (iv)
Liabilities for Taxes, which are exclusively governed by the Tax Matters
Agreement and (v) Liabilities that would not reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Comcast Material Adverse Effect, there are
no Liabilities of the Comcast Transferors, the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries
or otherwise relating to the Contributed Comcast Businesses required under U.S.
GAAP to be reflected in the Comcast Financial Statements. 

Section
5.07      .  SEC
Reports.   Comcast has filed all required registration
statements, reports and proxy statements with the SEC since December 31, 2006
(collectively, the   Comcast SEC
Documents  ).  As of their respective effective dates (in the
case of Comcast SEC Documents that are registration statements filed pursuant to
the requirements of the Securities Act) and as of their respective SEC filing
dates (in the case of all other Comcast SEC Documents), the Comcast SEC
Documents complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of
the Exchange Act and the Securities Act, as the case may be, applicable to such
Comcast SEC Documents, and none of the Comcast SEC Documents as of such
respective dates (or, if amended prior to the date of this Agreement, the date
of the filing of such amendment, with respect to the disclosures that are
amended) contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the
statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading. 

53 

Section
5.08      .  Absence of Certain
Changes or Events.   Except as contemplated by this Agreement,
(a) since January 1, 2009, (i) the Contributed Comcast Businesses have been
conducted in the ordinary course consistent with past practice and (ii) there
has not occurred any event, change, occurrence or circumstance that,
individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to
have a Comcast Material Adverse Effect and (b) from January 1, 2009 to the date
hereof, none of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries have taken any action that,
individually or in the aggregate, would materially impair or delay the ability
of the Comcast Transferors to consummate the transactions contemplated by, or
perform their obligations under, the Transaction Agreements. 

Section
5.09      .  Absence of
Litigation.   No Actions are pending or, to the Knowledge of
Comcast, threatened against the Comcast Transferors or any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties or assets, and since January
1, 2007, no Comcast Transferor nor any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary has
received any subpoena or notice of any claim or investigation that (a) has had
or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a
Comcast Material Adverse Effect or (b) would reasonably be expected to prevent
or materially impair or delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby, nor is there any Governmental Order outstanding against, or, to the
Knowledge of Comcast, any investigation by any Governmental Authority, involving
any Comcast Transferors or any Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or any of their
respective properties or assets, that would reasonably be expected to prevent or
materially impair or delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby. 

Section
5.10      .  Compliance with
Laws.   Excluding employment and employee benefits matters
(which are covered in  Section 5.16 ), and Taxes
(which are covered by the Tax Matters Agreement), none of the Comcast
Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries is in violation of any Laws or
Governmental Orders applicable to the conduct of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses by it or by which any Comcast Asset is bound or affected, and since
January 1, 2008, no Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries have
received any notice from any Governmental Authority alleging any conflict with,
or violation or breach of, any such Law or Governmental Order, in each case,
except for violations the existence of which has not had, and would not
reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Comcast
Material Adverse Effect. 

Section
5.11      .  Governmental Licenses
and Permits.   (a)  This  Section 5.11  does not address employment and employee
benefits matters (which are covered in  Section
5.16 ) and Taxes (which are covered by the Tax Matters
Agreement).  Each of the Comcast Transferors and the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries is in compliance in all material respects with all Laws
applicable to the ownership of their respective assets and properties and the
operation of the  

54 

Contributed
Comcast Businesses, and since January 1, 2008, no Comcast Transferor or
Contributed Comcast Subsidiary has received any notice from any Governmental
Authority alleging any material conflict with, material violation or breach of
or material default under any such Law. 

(b)     Each
of the Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has all permits,
licenses, permissions, franchises, and amendments thereto, from any Governmental
Authority (including FCC Licenses) necessary for the ownership and operation of
the Contributed Comcast Businesses (the   Comcast
Licenses  ).  Each of the Comcast Transferors and Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries is in compliance in all material respects with the terms of
the Comcast Licenses, and no Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries have received any notice from any Governmental Authority alleging
any material conflict with or violation or breach of any Comcast
License. 

(c)       Section
5.11(c)   of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth a complete list
of the material FCC Licenses held by the Comcast Transferors and Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries (the   Comcast FCC Licenses  )
currently in effect and all applications pending before any Governmental
Authority with respect to the Comcast FCC Licenses.  The Comcast FCC
Licenses are in full force and effect and are not subject to any restrictions or
conditions other than those affecting such type of Comcast FCC License
generally.  The Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries have filed all reports, notifications and filings with the FCC
necessary to maintain all Comcast FCC Licenses in full force and effect, have
timely paid all FCC regulatory fees with respect thereto and, to the Knowledge
of Comcast, there are no facts, events or conditions based upon which the FCC
might reasonably be expected to revoke, suspend, cancel, rescind, terminate,
require the disposition of, or fail to renew any of the Comcast FCC Licenses or
fail to grant any pending Comcast FCC application or petition for a Comcast FCC
License.  The Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries
are operating only those facilities for which an appropriate FCC authorization
has been obtained and such operation is in compliance with such authorization in
all material respects. 

(d)     No
application, action or proceeding is pending for the renewal or modification of
any Comcast FCC Licenses and, except for actions or proceedings affecting such
type of Comcast FCC License generally, no application, complaint, action or
proceeding is pending or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, threatened that seeks or
is reasonably likely to result in (i) the denial of an application for renewal
of a Comcast FCC License, (ii) the revocation, adverse modification, non-renewal
or suspension of any of the Comcast FCC Licenses or (iii) the issuance of a
material cease-and-desist order.  There is not now issued,
outstanding, pending or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, threatened, by or before
the FCC or any Governmental Authority, any order to show cause, notice of
violation, notice of apparent liability, notice of forfeiture or complaint with

55 

respect
to any of the Comcast FCC Licenses that has had or would reasonably be expected
to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Comcast Material Adverse
Effect. 

Section
5.12      .  Sufficiency of the
Comcast Assets; Liens.   (a) On the Closing Date (including
after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by  Section 6.14 ) and assuming receipt of all consents,
approvals and authorizations relating to the matters set forth in Sections  5.04  and  5.05  of the
Comcast Disclosure Letter or as contemplated by  Section
5.05 ), the Comcast Assets will, taking into account all Ancillary Agreements
and Third Party Rights, constitute all of the assets (other than Intellectual
Property) necessary to conduct the Contributed Comcast Businesses immediately
following the Closing in all material respects as it is conducted on the date of
this Agreement and on the Closing Date;  provided ,  however , that nothing in this
 Section 5.12  shall be deemed to constitute a
representation or warranty as to the adequacy of the amounts of cash or working
capital (or the availability of the same); and  provided ,  further , that this   Section
5.12(a)   shall not be deemed to be breached as a result of any action
by Comcast with respect to which GE has provided its specific consent (including
pursuant to  Section 6.01(b) ). 

(b)     Except
for Taxes, which are exclusively governed the Tax Matters Agreement, and
Permitted Liens, the Comcast Assets (other than the Comcast Real Properties,
which are the subject of  Section 5.17  and the
Comcast Owned Intellectual Property, which is the subject of  Section 5.13 ) are owned by or otherwise made available
to the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as the case may
be, free and clear of all Liens. 

(c)     The
Comcast Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries have maintained the
material tangible Comcast Assets in accordance with applicable industry
standards, ordinary wear and tear excepted. 

Section
5.13      .  Intellectual
Property.    (a)(i) The Comcast
Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries own sole and exclusive
title to the Patents included in the Comcast Owned Intellectual
Property.  To the Knowledge of Comcast, the Comcast Transferors and
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries own sole and exclusive title to (x) the
Copyrights included in the Comcast Owned Intellectual Property to the extent of
their ownership interest, and (y) all Comcast Owned Intellectual Property (other
than the Patents and Copyrights included therein). 

(ii)     The
Comcast Owned Intellectual Property is owned by the Comcast Transferors or the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as the case may be, free and clear of all
Liens, other than Permitted Liens. 

56 

(iii)     The
Comcast Intellectual Property, the applicable Third Party Rights, together with
the rights to be conveyed pursuant to the Comcast Intellectual Property Cross
License Agreement and the Intellectual Property rights of Newco contemplated
under the other Ancillary Agreements, constitute all material Intellectual
Property in use by, and necessary for the operation of, the Contributed Comcast
Businesses as currently conducted, assuming receipt of the relevant consents,
approvals and authorizations relating to the matters set forth in  Section 5.05  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter;  provided ,  however , that this  Section 5.13(a)(iii)  shall not be deemed to be
breached as a result of any action by Comcast with respect to which NBCU has
provided its specific consent (including pursuant to  Section 6.01(b) ). 

(b)     To
the Knowledge of Comcast, the operation and conduct of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses as currently conducted do not infringe upon, misappropriate or
otherwise violate the valid and enforceable Intellectual Property, moral rights
or neighboring rights of any third party in any material respect. 

(c)     No
Actions brought by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (including any Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary) are pending against any Person, and no Person has received
any subpoena or written notice of any claim or investigation from Comcast or any
of its Subsidiaries (including any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary), alleging
that such Person is infringing upon, misappropriating or otherwise violating in
any material respect the Comcast Owned Intellectual Property or the Comcast
Technology, except for such infringements, misappropriations or violations that
arise from the unauthorized reproduction, performance or distribution by
peer-to-peer file sharing, other online piracy or illegal hard disk
counterfeiting. 

(d)     No
Actions are pending or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, threatened against any of
the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or any of their
respective properties or assets, and no Comcast Transferor or Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary has received any subpoena or written notice of any claim or
investigation, alleging that the operation or conduct of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses by any of the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries
infringes upon, misappropriates or otherwise violates any Intellectual Property
of any third party in any material respect.  There are no suits,
actions or proceedings pending or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, threatened
against any of the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries with
respect to the validity, title or ownership of any material Comcast Owned
Intellectual Property. 

57 

(e)     (i)
 Section 5.13(e)(i)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter
sets forth a true and complete list of all Comcast Registered IP (other than any
registrations or applications for registration of Copyrights). 

(ii)     All
maintenance fees for the Comcast Registered IP have been paid (except with
respect to Comcast Registered IP which the Comcast Transferors and the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries have abandoned or permitted to lapse in the
ordinary course of business) and the Comcast Registered IP remains in full force
and effect, in each case to the extent such Comcast Registered IP is material to
the Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

(iii)     The
Comcast Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries have taken all
commercially reasonable steps to protect and maintain the Comcast Owned
Intellectual Property that, in their reasonable business judgment, they have
determined to be necessary or advisable for such protection or maintenance and,
where reasonably necessary as of the date hereof, each item of the Comcast Owned
Intellectual Property that is material to the Contributed Comcast Businesses has
been duly registered with, filed in or issued by, as the case may be, the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office, the U.S. Copyright Office, the applicable domain
name registrar or the corresponding authorities in foreign jurisdictions, to the
extent necessary to ensure full protection under any applicable
Law. 

(f)     Except
for the Comcast Name and Comcast Marks, all Excluded Comcast Intellectual
Property and Excluded Comcast Technology owned by Comcast and its Subsidiaries
that is or has been used, held for use or Contemplated to be used in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses has been licensed to Newco pursuant to the
Comcast Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement. 

(g)     Each
of the Comcast Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has taken
security measures reasonable in the industry in which it operates to protect the
secrecy, confidentiality and value of all Trade Secrets included in the Comcast
Intellectual Property and/or the Comcast Technology. 

(h)     The
consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement would not
reasonably be expected to: (i) restrict, limit, invalidate, impair, alter,
extinguish, result in the loss of or otherwise adversely affect any right, title
or interest of Newco or any of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries in any
Comcast Owned Intellectual Property or Comcast Technology, or its rights to use
any Comcast Licensed Intellectual Property, in each case in a manner that would
reasonably be expected to be material to the Contributed Comcast Businesses
taken as a whole; (ii) grant or require Newco or any of the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries to grant to any third party any right with  

58 

respect
to any Comcast Owned Intellectual Property or Comcast Technology, in each case
that would reasonably be expected to be material to the Contributed Comcast
Businesses taken as a whole; (iii) subject Newco or any of the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries to an increase in royalties or other payments, in each case
that would reasonably be expected to be material to the Contributed Comcast
Businesses taken as a whole, under any Comcast IP License; (iv) diminish
royalties or other payments to which the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries would otherwise be entitled, in each case that would
reasonably be expected to be material to the Contributed Comcast Businesses
taken as a whole, under any Comcast IP License; or (v) result in the breach or,
by its terms, termination of any Comcast IP License that is material to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses taken as a whole.  For the avoidance of
doubt, the representation set forth in this  Section
5.13(h)  does not contemplate the manner in which the Business of Newco is to
be operated after the Closing. 

Section
5.14      .  Environmental and
Health and Safety Matters.   (a) Except as has not had and would
not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Comcast
Material Adverse Effect: (i) none of the Comcast Transferors (with respect to
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, the Comcast Assets or the Contributed
Comcast Businesses), the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or the Comcast Assets
(except for the Comcast Leased Real Property) is subject and, to the Knowledge
of Comcast, no Comcast Leased Real Property is subject, to a written notice,
notification, demand, citation, summons, request for information, investigation
or order from, or agreement with, any Governmental Authority, or has been
assessed any penalty or fine in the last five (5) years, in each case, relating
to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Material; (ii) there
has been no release, discharge, migration or disposal of Hazardous Materials on,
at, to, under or from (including offsite disposal or arrangement for the
disposal from) the Comcast Real Properties or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, real
properties formerly owned, leased or operated by the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries or otherwise used in the Contributed Comcast Businesses; (iii)
there are no Actions pending or threatened against the Comcast Transferors (with
respect to the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, the Comcast Assets or the
Contributed Comcast Businesses), the Comcast Assets or the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries, in each case, relating to any Environmental Law, Environmental
Permit or Hazardous Material; (iv) the Comcast Transferors (with respect to the
Comcast Assets or the Contributed Comcast Businesses), the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries, the Comcast Assets and the Contributed Comcast Businesses have
operated for the last five (5) years and are operating in compliance with
applicable Environmental Laws including obtaining and maintaining all
Environmental Permits; (v) there are no Liabilities of the Comcast Transferors
(with respect to the Comcast Assets or the Contributed Comcast Businesses) or
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or otherwise relating to the Contributed
Comcast Businesses, in each case, with respect to any Environmental Law,
Environmental Permit or Hazardous Material; and (vi) there  

59 

are
no financial assurance requirements pertaining to the Contributed Comcast
Businesses or the Comcast Assets (including, to the Knowledge of Comcast, the
Comcast Leased Real Property) under any Environmental Law or Environmental
Permit. 

(b)     All
material environmental or health and safety assessments and reports conducted
within the last five (5) years by or on behalf of the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries or, with respect to the Comcast Real Properties or the Contributed
Comcast Businesses, the Comcast Transferors, have been furnished or made
available to GE and NBCU. 

(c)     With
respect to the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, the Comcast Assets and the
Contributed Comcast Businesses, the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby requires no filings to be made or actions to be taken
pursuant to the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act or the  Connecticut
Property Transfer Law  (Sections 22a-134 through 22-134e of the Connecticut
General Statutes). 

The
representations and warranties made by Comcast in  Section 5.08  and  Section
5.14  are the only representations and warranties made by Comcast in this
Agreement with respect to any matters arising under, or regulated pursuant to,
any Environmental Law or Environmental Permit. 

Section
5.15      .  Significant Comcast
Contracts.   (a)  Section 5.15(a)  of
the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete list of all of the
following Contracts to which Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (including any
of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries) is a party or by which it or any of its
properties or assets may be bound as of the date of this Agreement (in each case
(x) only with respect to the Contributed Comcast Businesses and (y) as amended,
supplemented, waived or otherwise modified through the date of this Agreement,
collectively, the   Significant
Comcast Contracts  ): 

(i)     stock
purchase agreements or asset purchase agreements that (x) would reasonably
be expected to involve aggregate consideration (including any Debt for borrowed
money acquired or assumed thereunder) in excess of $18.75 million, (y) have not
expired by, and have not been terminated in accordance with, their terms, and
(z) relate to the prospective acquisition or disposition of any Contributed
Comcast Assets or the Contributed Comcast Businesses; 

(ii)     Contracts
pursuant to which any Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary
currently leases any Comcast Assets (other than leases for Comcast Leased Real
Property and Contracts related to transactions involving the Library entered
into in the ordinary course of business) and in respect of which the Comcast
Transferors and  

60 

Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries would reasonably be expected to make, on or after the date
hereof, aggregate payments in excess of $12.5 million; 

(iii)     (A)
joint venture, partnership and limited liability company operating agreements
pursuant to which a Comcast Transferor or any of the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries would reasonably be expected to make, on or after the date hereof,
aggregate payments in excess of $18.75 million, (B) organizational documents of
other material joint ventures, partnerships and limited liability companies
included in the Comcast Assets and (C) organizational documents or other
Contracts relating to other joint ventures, partnerships and limited liability
companies included in the Contributed Comcast Assets in which Comcast and its
Subsidiaries own an interest with a value in excess of $6.25 million, containing
rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments obligating any party thereto to
issue, sell, purchase, return, convert or redeem any of the shares or other
equity interests of such joint venture, partnership or limited liability company
or securities convertible into or exchangeable for such shares or other equity
securities; 

(iv)     Contracts
prohibiting or materially restricting the ability of any Comcast Transferor or
any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary to (A) engage in any business, (B) sell any
products or services to any other Person, (C) operate in any geographical area
or (D) compete with or obtain products or services from any Person or prohibit
or restrict the ability of any Person to provide products or services to any
Comcast Transferor or any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary, in each case, other
than (x) exclusivity and channel distribution restrictions contained in
Exploitation Agreements or Affiliation Agreements and (y) exclusivity
restrictions contained in sourcing agreements that would not reasonably be
expected to involve annual payments in excess of $2.5 million, in each case (x)
and (y), entered into in the ordinary course of business; 

(v)     Contracts
relating to the borrowing of money or extension of credit that would reasonably
be expected to involve amounts in excess of $10 million to which any Comcast
Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary is a party; 

(vi)     Exploitation
Agreements (A) pursuant to which the Comcast Transferors and the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries would reasonably be expected to receive annual revenue in
excess of $6.25 million for fiscal year 2009, and/or (B) in respect of which the
Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries would reasonably be
expected to make payments in excess of (x) $6.25 million in fiscal year 2010 or
2011 or (y) $25 million in any other fiscal year, other than, in each case under
 (A)  or  (B)  above, any
Contract of the type (disregarding   

61 

any
dollar thresholds, materiality or other qualifiers, restrictions or other
limitations applied to such Contract type) described in clause  (ix)  of this  Section
5.15  (a) ; 

(vii)     Affiliation
Agreements representing the top ten (ranked by aggregate distribution fees
payable during the nine month period ending on September 30, 2009) programming
service distribution agreements; 

(viii)      term
deals  as commonly understood in the motion picture or television industry
pursuant to which the relevant Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries would reasonably be expected to pay, on or after the date hereof,
aggregate compensation in excess of $2.5 million; 

(ix)     each
Contract pursuant to which any Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary licenses any exhibition rights in Programs to third parties for any
period ending on or after September 30, 2009 on an output basis (i.e., which
grants television exhibition rights to Library Pictures, or films that will
become Library Pictures, that will become available for such exhibition during a
specified prospective multiyear period of time, and under which not all Library
Pictures are specifically identified by title) pursuant to which the relevant
Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries would reasonably be
expected to receive annual revenue in excess of $6.25 million for fiscal year
2009; 

(x)     material
Comcast IP Licenses, other than any (A)  shrinkwrap  or  clickwrap  licenses or
agreements for commercially available off-the-shelf Software, (B)
confidentiality agreements made in the ordinary course of business, or (C) any
Contract of the type (disregarding any dollar thresholds, materiality or other
qualifiers, restrictions or other limitations applied to such Contract type)
described in clauses  (i) - (ix)  or  (xi) - (xiii)  of this  Section
5.15  (a) ; 

(xi)     Talent
Contracts representing, as of the date hereof, the top 10 Talent Contracts
(based on the aggregate amount of payments reasonably expected to be made by the
relevant Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries) and the
employment agreements of the president of the Comcast programming division and
each of his direct reports (to the extent that such individuals are party to
employment agreements); 

(xii)     infomercial
or similar paid programming Contracts granting any Person the right to program
any block of time on the television and cable networks included in the Comcast
Assets (the  

62 

Comcast Cable Networks  )
pursuant to which the relevant Comcast Transferors and Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries would reasonably be expected to receive, on or after the date
hereof, aggregate consideration in excess of $2.5 million; 

(xiii)     Contracts
for the acquisition, lease or servicing of satellite transponders and other
uplink and downlink and terrestrial transmission (including fiber optic)
arrangements relating to the distribution of the broadcast and cable networks of
the Contributed Comcast Businesses and in respect of which the relevant Comcast
Transferors and Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries would reasonably be expected to
make, on or after the date hereof, aggregate payments in excess of $2.5
million; 

(xiv)     the
Contracts listed on  Section 5.15(a)(xiv)  of the
Comcast Disclosure Letter; and 

(xv)     Contracts
not of a type (disregarding any dollar thresholds, materiality or other
qualifiers, restrictions or other limitations applied to such Contract type)
described in the foregoing clauses  (i)  through  (xiv)  that would reasonably be expected to involve
payments in excess of $25 million. 

(b)     Each
Significant Comcast Contract is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the
applicable Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary, as the case may
be, and, to the Knowledge of Comcast, each other party to such Comcast Contract
(other than NBCU or its Affiliates), and is enforceable against the applicable
Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary, as the case may be, and,
to the Knowledge of Comcast, each such other party (other than NBCU or its
Affiliates), in accordance with its terms subject, in each case, to the effect
of any applicable Laws relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency,
moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or preferential transfers, or similar Laws
relating to or affecting creditors  rights generally and subject, as to
enforceability, to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of
whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at
law).  Assuming the receipt of all consents or approvals required in
connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement pursuant to the Contracts set forth on  Section 5.04  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter, neither
the Comcast Transferors nor the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries nor, to the
Knowledge of Comcast, any other party to a Significant Comcast Contract (other
than any NBCU Entity) is in material default or material breach of a Significant
Comcast Contract, and there does not exist any event, condition or omission that
would constitute such a material default or material breach (whether by lapse of
time or notice or both) under any Significant Comcast Contract on the part of
any Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary or, to the Knowledge of
Comcast, any other Person (other than NBCU  

63 

or
its Affiliates).  Comcast has made available to NBCU complete copies
of all written Significant Comcast Contracts, together with any amendments
thereto, and accurate descriptions of all material terms of any oral Significant
Comcast Contracts, in each case, other than the Contracts listed on  Section 5.15(b)  of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter.   Section 5.15(b) (i) of the
Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of Significant Comcast Contracts
with respect to which NBCU has made available to Comcast descriptions of certain
provisions.  All such descriptions are accurate and
complete. 

(c)     None
of the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has received,
within the three (3) years ending on the date hereof, any written notice of any
violation or breach of any MFN included in any Affiliation
Agreement. 

(d)     Neither
Comcast nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or bound by and the
Contributed Comcast Assets do not contain any Contract that, by its terms, would
bind Affiliates of Newco (other than Comcast, its Subsidiaries and the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries) after giving effect to the
Closing.  Comcast has made available to NBCU accurate and complete
copies of the provisions referenced on  Section
5.15(d)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter. 

Section
5.16      .  Employment and Employee
Benefits Matters.   (a)  Section
5.16(a)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth a list, as of the date
hereof, of all material Comcast Employee Plans and separately identifies (i) the
material Comcast Parent Plans, (ii) the material Comcast Subsidiary Plans (other
than Comcast Multiemployer Plans), (iii) the Comcast Multiemployer Plans
covering 50 or more active Comcast Contributed Business Employees employed in
the United States and the material Comcast Multiemployer Plans covering Comcast
Contributed Business Employees employed outside of the United States, (iv) the
Comcast Employee Plans (other than Comcast Multiemployer Plans) constituting
plans subject to Title IV of ERISA or other defined benefit pension plans
covering 50 or more Comcast Contributed Business Employees, (v) each Comcast
Employee Plan (other than any Multiemployer Plan) that provides for
post-retirement medical coverage for 50 or more Comcast Contributed Business
Employees (excluding coverage as required to avoid an excise tax under section
4980B of the Code, coverage through the end of the calendar month in which
retirement occurs, post-employment coverage under a medical expense
reimbursement account and coverage during any severance benefits period), and
(vi) to the Knowledge of Comcast, the principal labor agreements covering the
current material terms and conditions of employment with each union or labor
organization, collective bargaining unit, works council or other employee
representative that applies to Comcast Contributed Business
Employees.  Comcast has previously made available to GE a true and
complete copy of each Comcast Employee Plan (other than Multiemployer Plans)
covering Comcast Contributed Business Employees employed in the United States
and a summary  

64 

or
written description of each material Comcast Employee Plan applicable to Comcast
Contributed Business Employees employed in countries other than the United
States. 

(b)     To
the Knowledge of Comcast, as of the date hereof, no Comcast Multiemployer Plan
is in critical, endangered, or seriously endangered status as described in
Section 305 of ERISA, as amended by the Pension Protection Act of
2006. 

(c)     Each
Comcast Employee Plan (and, as of the date hereof, with respect to any
Multiemployer Plan, solely to the Knowledge of Comcast without any inquiry) that
is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a
favorable determination letter from the IRS that it is so qualified, and each
related trust that is intended to be exempt from federal income Tax pursuant to
Section 501(a) of the Code has received a determination letter from the IRS that
it is so exempt, and no event has occurred since the date of such determination
letter that would reasonably be expected to adversely affect such qualification
or exemption, as the case may be.  Each Comcast Employee Plan (other
than any Multiemployer Plan) that is required to be registered in order to
obtain tax-approved, favored or qualified status in the relevant jurisdiction
has been registered or, where applicable, accepted for registration, and has
been maintained in good standing with applicable Governmental Authorities,
except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Comcast Material Adverse
Effect. 

(d)     With
respect to each Comcast Employee Plan (other than any Multiemployer Plan)
subject to Title IV of ERISA, there is no liability incurred under Title IV of
ERISA that has not been satisfied in full (other than premiums to the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation which are not past due or amounts reflected in the
Comcast Financial Statements).  None of the Comcast Assets is the
subject of any Lien arising under ERISA or Section 412 of the
Code.  With respect to each Comcast Employee Plan (other than any
Multiemployer Plan) that is a registered pension plan, no Person has (i)
withdrawn any funds from the plan; (ii) merged any of the plans with another
registered pension plan; (iii) transferred assets from another registered
pension plan to the plan; (iv) taken a contribution holiday in respect of the
plan; or (v) used assets from the plan to pay administrative expenses of the
plan, except, in each such case, (A) in accordance with terms of the
respective plan (and any applicable funding agreement) and applicable Law; or
(B) as to which there is no material Liability. 

(e)     Each
Comcast Employee Plan (other than Multiemployer Plans) is now and has been
operated in all material respects in accordance with its terms and the
requirements of all applicable Laws. 

(f)     There
are no material controversies (other than routine benefit claims for benefits in
the ordinary course) pending or, to the Knowledge of  

65 

Comcast,
threatened in connection with any Comcast Subsidiary Plan (other than any
Multiemployer Plan) or, except as would not reasonably be expected to have a
Comcast Material Adverse Effect, any other Comcast Employee Plan (other than any
Multiemployer Plan). 

(g)     None
of the Comcast Transferors, the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or their
respective Affiliates has breached or otherwise failed to comply in any material
respect with the provisions of any collective bargaining, works council or
similar employee representative agreement, and as of the date hereof there are
no material grievances or arbitrations outstanding thereunder.  There
are no formal organizational campaigns, corporate campaigns, petitions, demands
for recognition via card-check or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, other material
unionization activities seeking recognition of a bargaining unit in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses.  As of the date hereof, there are no
material unfair labor practice charges, grievances, pending arbitrations, or
other complaints or union representation questions before the National Labor
Relations Board or other labor board or Governmental Authority that could
materially affect Comcast Contributed Business Employees and would reasonably be
expected to result in a material Liability to the Newco Group. 

(h)     As
of the date hereof, there are no current or, to the Knowledge of Comcast,
threatened material strikes, slowdowns or work stoppages, and no such material
strike, slowdown or work stoppage has occurred within the three years preceding
the date hereof.  Except as would not reasonably be expected to result
in a material Liability to the Contributed Comcast Businesses, the Comcast
Transferors, the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries and their respective
Affiliates have, in all material respects, informed and consulted with their
respective employee representative bodies to the degree required by applicable
Laws and applicable collective bargaining, works council or similar employee
representative agreements, including but not limited to the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement. 

(i)     Each
of the Comcast Transferors, the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries and their
respective Affiliates (in the case of the Comcast Transferors and their
Affiliates that are not Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, with respect to
Comcast Contributed Business Employees only) are in compliance in all material
respects with all applicable Laws relating to the employment of Comcast
Contributed Business Employees (including employment or labor standards, labor
relations, human rights, immigration, workers  compensation, severance payment,
payment of wages, the WARN Act and any similar state or local law,
classification of independent contractor or other non-employee status and of
exempt and non-exempt employees, pay equity, data protection and Automatic
Transfer Legislation) and, except for amounts reflected in the Comcast Financial
Statements or non-compliance which would not result in a material Liability to
Comcast or any of its Affiliates, have timely paid in full all wages, salaries,

66 

benefits,
commissions and other compensation, and all levies, assessments, contributions
and payments to third parties (including social security or social insurance,
housing fund, employment insurance, income tax, employer health tax, workers
compensation, Multiemployer Plan contributions, or payments of its contributions
with respect to social security agencies, family benefits agencies and any
retirement and unemployment related agencies or other payments of tax and social
security payments to Governmental Authorities) due to or on behalf of the
Comcast Contributed Business Employees.  Except for accrued amounts
that are not past due and non-compliance which would not reasonably be expected
to result in a material Liability to Comcast or any of its Affiliates, each of
the Comcast Transferors, the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries and their
respective Affiliates has withheld, and paid to the relevant Governmental
Authority, proper and accurate amounts from salaries and wages due to the
Comcast Contributed Business Employees in due compliance in all material
respects with relevant tax withholding provisions.  No material claim
with respect to payment of wages, salary or overtime pay has been asserted, or
is now pending or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, threatened before any
Governmental Authority, with respect to Comcast Contributed Business Employees,
and there is no charge or proceeding with respect to a material violation of any
occupational safety or health standards that has been asserted or is now pending
or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, threatened with respect to the Contributed
Comcast Businesses.  No material charge of discrimination in
employment or employment practices for any reason, including age, gender, race,
religion or other legally protected category, has been asserted or is now
pending or, to the Knowledge of Comcast, threatened before the United States
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or other Governmental Authority by
Comcast Contributed Business Employees.  As of the date hereof, none
of the Comcast Transferors, the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or their
respective Affiliates (in the case of the Comcast Transferors and their
Affiliates that are not Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, with respect to
Comcast Contributed Business Employees only) is subject to any pending
investigation from any labor inspection or similar Governmental Authority which
could reasonably be expected to result in any material payment.  There
is no other material Action existing, pending or, to the Knowledge of Comcast,
threatened by Comcast Contributed Business Employees against any Comcast
Transferor, any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary or any of their respective
Affiliates, and there are no matters that would reasonably be expected to give
rise to any such material Actions. 

(j)     To
the Knowledge of Comcast, no Comcast Contributed Business Employee has been, is
or will be, by performing services for the Newco Group, in violation of any term
of any employment, invention disclosure or assignment, confidentiality,
nondisclosure agreement, noncompetition agreement or other restrictive covenant
or any order, other than any violation that would not have a material
Liability. 

67 

(k)     In
the event the services of each Comcast Contributed Business Employee who, as of
the date hereof, is a party to a Comcast Employee Agreement set forth in  Section 5.15(a)(xi)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter
was terminated on January 1, 2010, the aggregate amount of such Comcast
Contributed Business Employees  severance or termination pay or claim for
damages to the extent attributable solely to annual base salary is set forth in
 Section 5.16(k)  of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter.   Section 5.16(k)  of the Comcast
Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of all Comcast Employee Plans (other than
any Multiemployer Plan) pursuant to which any amounts or benefits may become
vested or payable, funded, increased or accelerated, as a result of the
consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (either alone or
in combination with any other event or events), including, as to any such
Comcast Employee Plan constituting an employee pension benefit plan, any
employer debt under Section 75 of the Pensions Act 1995, any withdrawal or
termination penalty, or other similar penalty.  There are no Comcast
Employee Plans (other than any Multiemployer Plan) which provide for the payment
of any amount (whether in cash or property or the vesting of property) as a
result of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (either alone
or in combination with any other event or events) that would give rise to a
material payment that is nondeductible by reason of Section 280G. 

Section
5.17      .  Comcast Real Property.
 (a) Section 5.17(a) of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth a list,
as of the date hereof, of all of the material Comcast Owned Real Properties and
the material Comcast Leased Real Properties. 

(b)           As
of the date hereof, the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries have good and valid fee simple title to all material Comcast Owned
Real Property and valid leasehold title to the leasehold estate (as lessee or
sublessee) in all material Comcast Leased Real Property, in each case free and
clear of all Liens except for Permitted Liens. 

(c)           (i)
All leases and subleases for the material Comcast Leased Real Property under
which any of the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries is a
lessee or sublessee are in full force and effect and are enforceable, in all
material respects, in accordance with their respective terms, subject to the
effect of any applicable Laws relating to bankruptcy, reorganization,
insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or preferential transfers, or
similar Laws relating to or affecting creditors  rights generally and subject,
as to enforceability, to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless
of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at
law), and (ii) no written notices of material default under any such lease or
sublease have been sent or received by any Comcast Transferors or Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries. 

68 

(d)           None
of the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has received any
written notice from any Governmental Authority asserting any material violation
or alleged material violation of applicable Laws with respect to any Comcast
Real Properties that remains uncured as of the date of this
Agreement. 

(e)           The
plants, buildings, structures and fixtures material to the Comcast Businesses
included in the Comcast Assets are adequate for their present uses. 

(f)           The
plants, buildings and structures material to the Comcast Businesses included in
the Comcast Assets currently (i) have access to public roads or valid and
subsisting easements, rights of way or private agreements (including leases) for
access over private streets or private property for such ingress to and egress
from all such plants, buildings and structures, and (ii) are serviced by such
utilities as are necessary for the particular operations of Comcast taking place
on the date hereof at each such plant, building or structure. 

(g)           Subject
to  Section 2.05 , all real property material to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses is included in either the Comcast Owned Real
Property or the Comcast Leased Real Property. 

Section
5.18      .  Insurance.   (a)
All material insurance policies maintained by or for the benefit of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses, including all existing errors and omission
insurance policies, are in full force and effect.  The Comcast
Transferors and the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries have complied in all
material respects with the terms and provisions of such policies.  No
claim has been made since January 1, 2006 with respect to the Library Rights
under any errors and omissions policy maintained by or for the benefit of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

(b)       Section
5.18(b)   of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and
complete list, as of the date hereof, of (i) all Comcast Available Insurance
Policies and (ii) all Comcast Transferable Insurance Policies. 

Section
5.19      .  Brokers.   Except
for fees and expenses of Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, Banc of America
Securities LLC and UBS Securities LLC in connection with their rendering of
investment banking advice to Comcast and its Affiliates, no broker, finder or
investment banker is entitled to any brokerage, finder s or other fee or
commission from Comcast or any of its Affiliates in connection with transactions
contemplated hereby based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Comcast or
any of its Affiliates. 

Section
5.20      .  Related Party
Transactions.   (a)  Section 5.20(a) 
of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth a true and complete list, as of the
date hereof, of all Related Party Comcast Contracts. 

69 

(b)       Section
5.20(b)   of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of the date
hereof, a true and complete list of the Comcast LCs and, if applicable, the
aggregate potential Liability under each such Comcast LC. 

Section
5.21      .  Library
Rights.    (a)   As between (i) Comcast
and its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) on the one
hand, and (ii) any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary on the other hand, any and all
rights in and to the Library (and any databases relating thereto) are held by
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries (rather than by Comcast or any of its other
Subsidiaries). 

(b)     All
Exploitation Agreements entered into by a Comcast Transferor or Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary pursuant to which a Comcast Transferor or a Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary has granted any third party any right to Exploit any material
portions of the Library or its components have been entered into in the ordinary
course of business. 

(c)     None
of the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries have received
(nor does Comcast have any Knowledge that the Comcast Transferors or the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries will receive) from any registration or filing
office of requisite authority in any jurisdiction, any notice from any third
party terminating or purporting to terminate copyright assignments pursuant to
17 U.S.C   203 or   304 or their foreign equivalents and relating to the
Programs. 

(d)     An
original negative or master of each of the Library Pictures currently being
Exploited has been properly stored, in each case in accordance with standards
customarily applied by major theatrical, television and home video distributors,
as applicable, or the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries has access to printable elements of such Library
Pictures.  Such original negatives, masters or printable elements are,
in all material respects, in a commercially reasonable condition.   Section 5.21(d)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets
forth, as of the date hereof, a list, which is true and complete in all material
respects, of the physical locations of such original negatives, masters, or
printable elements, and to the extent such physical locations are owned or
controlled by third parties, the Comcast Transferors and the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries are party to customary access agreements. 

(e)     The
Library Tangible Assets for the Programs are stored and maintained in all
material respects in accordance with standard industry practices for the use and
preservation of such materials, and Comcast and its Subsidiaries have customary
access thereto sufficient to Exploit the Programs. 

Section
5.22      .  Distribution.   (a)
To the Knowledge of Comcast as of the date hereof, each distributor that is
party to an Affiliation Agreement with a  

70 

Comcast
Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary is meeting its payment obligations
under such Affiliation Agreement in accordance with the terms of such
Affiliation Agreement, other than the nonpayment of amounts that are subject to
a  bona fide  dispute,
controversy or claim.  No Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary is in material default or material breach of any such Affiliation
Agreement, and there does not exist any event, condition or omission that would
constitute such a material default or material breach (whether by lapse of time
or notice or both) under any such Affiliation Agreement on the part of any
Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary. 

(b)     With
respect to any material Affiliation Agreement containing a delete or
repositioning right, no multichannel video programming distributor has notified
any Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary in writing of its
intention to delete or materially reposition any programming
service. 

(c)       Section
5.22(c)   of the Comcast Disclosure Letter sets forth, as of September
30, 2009, the number of subscribers with respect to each network of the Comcast
Transferors and Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries as most recently reported by
the applicable distributor. 

Section
5.23      .  No Debt as of
Closing.   Immediately prior to the Closing, none of the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries shall have any outstanding Debt other than Debt
of any Subsidiary that is not, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by Comcast
and capital lease obligations. 

Section
5.24      .  Securities
Matters.   The Newco Membership Interests (including those to be
purchased from NBCU in accordance with  Section
2.04 ) are being obtained by Comcast for its own account, and not with a view
to, or for the offer or sale in connection with, any distribution or sale of the
Newco Membership Interests or any interest in them in violation of the
Securities Act (or analogous Laws in any non-U.S.
jurisdiction).  Comcast has sufficient knowledge and experience in
financial and business matters to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks
of its investment in the Newco Membership Interests, and is capable of bearing
the economic risks of such investment, including a complete loss of its
investment in the Newco Membership Interests.  Comcast acknowledges
that the Newco Membership Interests have not been registered under the
Securities Act or any state securities Laws, and understands and agrees that it
may not sell or dispose of any of the Newco Membership Interests except pursuant
to a registered offering in compliance with, or in a transaction exempt from,
the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any other applicable
state, foreign or federal securities Laws. 

Section
5.25      .  Availability of Funds;
Ability to Close.   On the Closing Date, Comcast will have cash
available or availability under borrowing facilities  

71 

that
together are sufficient to enable it to consummate the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement. 

Section
5.26      .  No Other
Representations or Warranties.   EXCEPT FOR THE REPRESENTATIONS
AND WARRANTIES CONTAINED IN THIS ARTICLE 5 (AS MODIFIED BY THE COMCAST
DISCLOSURE LETTER) AND IN THE OTHER TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS, NEITHER COMCAST NOR
ANY OTHER PERSON MAKES ANY OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY
WITH RESPECT TO COMCAST OR THE OTHER COMCAST TRANSFERORS, THE COMCAST ASSETS,
THE CONTRIBUTED COMCAST SUBSIDIARIES, THE CONTRIBUTED COMCAST BUSINESSES OR THE
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT, THE ASSUMED COMCAST LIABILITIES AND
ANY OTHER RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS TO BE TRANSFERRED HEREUNDER OR PURSUANT HERETO,
AND COMCAST DISCLAIMS ANY OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, WHETHER MADE BY
COMCAST OR ITS AFFILIATES, OR ANY OF ITS OR THEIR OFFICERS, DIRECTORS,
EMPLOYEES, AGENTS OR REPRESENTATIVES.  EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS
AGREEMENT OR IN THE ANCILLARY AGREEMENTS, COMCAST HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL LIABILITY
AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY REPRESENTATION, WARRANTY, PROJECTION, FORECAST,
STATEMENT, OR INFORMATION MADE, COMMUNICATED, OR FURNISHED (ORALLY OR IN
WRITING) TO THE PARTIES HERETO, NEWCO OR THEIR RESPECTIVE AFFILIATES OR
REPRESENTATIVES (INCLUDING ANY OPINION, INFORMATION, PROJECTION, OR ADVICE THAT
MAY HAVE BEEN OR MAY BE PROVIDED TO ANY OTHER PARTIES HERETO BY ANY DIRECTOR,
OFFICER, EMPLOYEE, AGENT, CONSULTANT, OR REPRESENTATIVE OF COMCAST OR ANY OF ITS
AFFILIATES).  COMCAST MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES REGARDING
THE PROBABLE SUCCESS OR PROFITABILITY OF THE CONTRIBUTED COMCAST BUSINESSES, THE
COMCAST ASSETS OR THE CONTRIBUTED COMCAST SUBSIDIARIES. 

ARTICLE
6    Additional
Agreements 

Section
6.01      .  Conduct of Business
Prior to the Closing.    (a)
NBCU.  From the date of this Agreement through the Closing, except as
required by applicable Law or any Governmental Authority, as otherwise expressly
contemplated by the Transaction Agreements (including  Section 6.05  and  Section
6.14 ) and for matters identified in Section 6.01(a) of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter, unless Comcast otherwise consents in writing in advance (which consent,
except in the case of  Section 6.01(a)(ii) , shall
not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed), GE will, and will cause
the other NBCU Transferors and the NBCU  

72 

Entities
to, (x) conduct the NBCU Businesses and operations thereof in the ordinary
course of business consistent with past practice (including with respect to
labor and union matters), (y) use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve
intact the business organizations of the NBCU Businesses, keep available the
services of their executive officers and key employees, maintain NBCU Owned Real
Property and NBCU Leased Real Property in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice, continue to pursue, consistent with past
practices and subject to changes in facts and circumstances, the Development
Agreement and activities related thereto, including all applications and permits
related thereto, as appropriate in the reasonable good faith judgment of NBCU
from time to time, and preserve their current business relationships with the
material customers, authors, producers, directors, actors, performers,
announcers, suppliers, advertisers, distributors, business partners and others
persons having business dealings with them and (z) with respect to the NBCU
Businesses and NBCU Entities, not do any of the following: 

(i)     except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, grant, permit
or create any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) on any NBCU Assets (whether
tangible or intangible) with a value individually in excess of $10 million or,
in the aggregate, in excess of $50 million; 

(ii)     (A)
acquire (through GE or any of its Affiliates, including any NBCU Entity) by
merger, consolidation, combination or amalgamation, or (B) acquire any equity
interest in or assets of, any corporation, partnership, association or other
business organization or division thereof, in each case, for consideration
(including any Debt for borrowed money acquired or assumed in such transaction),
in an amount greater than $100 million in any single transaction or $250 million
in the aggregate;  provided  that such aggregate
cap of $250 million shall not prohibit or restrict any NBCU Entity s ability to
enter into any Library Underlying Agreement or to acquire any Library Literary
Properties, in each case in the ordinary course of business and for
consideration on a per transaction basis of $20 million or less (excluding
participation and similar variable payments); 

(iii)     except
for the NBCU Financing or the Alternative Financing Arrangements, the GE Note,
the Comcast Note and the Repatriation Notes (if any), and for Debt assumed or
incurred in a transaction permitted pursuant to Section 6.01(a)(ii), create,
incur, guarantee or assume any Debt, issue any debt securities or assume, grant,
guarantee or endorse, or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for,
the obligations of any Person, or make any loans or advances (in each case,
other than (A) in the ordinary course of business in amounts and on terms
consistent with past practice as permitted under the  

73 

Contracts
set forth on Section 6.01(a)(iii) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter, (B) pursuant to
intercompany borrowing arrangements (x) that will be repaid in full and
terminated at Closing or (y) solely between or among NBCU Entities and (C)
guarantees of (1) leases entered into by any NBCU Entity with respect to the
NBCU Leased Real Property or (2) other obligations not exceeding $30
million in the aggregate); 

(iv)     issue
or sell any additional shares of, or other equity interests in, any of the NBCU
Transferors or NBCU Entities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for
such shares or equity interests (other than, in each case, the issuance or sale
of shares of, or other equity interests in, one NBCU Entity to another NBCU
Entity), or issue or grant any options, warrants, calls, subscription rights,
profit participation rights (other than profit participation rights relating to
films or television programs granted in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice) or other rights of any kind, contingently or
otherwise, to acquire such shares, other equity interests or securities, or any
securities convertible into or exchangeable for such equity securities, or amend
the terms of any such shares, equity interests or securities or options,
warrants, calls, subscription rights or other rights outstanding, or effect any
recapitalization, reclassification, stock split or like change in the
capitalization of any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity; 

(v)     other
than sales or licensing of products, programming or other goods and services in
the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice (including
pursuant to Exploitation Agreements), license, sell, transfer, lease, sublease,
or otherwise dispose of any NBCU Assets, NBCU Owned Real Property, NBCU Owned
Intellectual Property or NBCU Technology for consideration, individually in
excess of $100 million or, in the aggregate, in excess of $250
million; 

(vi)     amend
or modify in any material respect, withdraw or terminate the Development
Agreement, or any condominium plan, declaration unit owners agreement,
declaration of covenants and restrictions, reciprocal easement agreement or
similar agreement in existence with respect to the NBCU Leased Real Property
located at 30 Rockefeller Center, New York, New York, in a manner that
negatively impacts NBCU s rights thereunder; 

(vii)     recognize
any new union, works council or other similar employee representative, except as
required by applicable Law; 

(viii)     without
the prior consent of Comcast (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld),
enter into any Collective Bargaining Agreement, or renew or enter into a
mid-term modification (excluding  

74 

resolutions
of grievances relating to or interpretations of a Collective Bargaining
Agreement) of any existing Collective Bargaining Agreement, in each case, that
applies to at least 500 NBCU Business Employees; 

(ix)     without
prior consultation with Comcast (and, if applicable pursuant to Section
6.01(a)(viii), the prior consent of Comcast), enter into any Collective
Bargaining Agreement, or renew or enter into a mid-term modification (excluding
resolutions of grievances relating to or interpretations of a Collective
Bargaining Agreement) of any existing Collective Bargaining Agreement, in each
case, with the Screen Actors Guild; Directors Guild of America; Writers Guild of
America; International Brotherhood of Teamsters; National Association of
Broadcast Employees and Technicians-Communications Workers of America (NABET);
International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture
Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of the United States, Its Territories and
Canada (IATSE); American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA);
Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio Artists (ACTRA); or American
Federation of Musicians and Actor s Equity Association; 

(x)     without
prior consultation with Comcast, effectuate any  mass layoffs  within the
meaning of the WARN Act; 

(xi)     with
respect to any NBCU Business Employee whose aggregate annual cash compensation
exceeds $750,000, (A) enter into any NBCU Employee Agreement that has a term of
more than three years (or materially amend any such NBCU Employee Agreement) or
(B) extend the term of any NBCU Employee Agreement by more than three years
(other than any extension that maintains the existing terms of such NBCU
Employee Agreement;  provided  that any increase of
annual salary to the extent permitted by Section 6.01(a)(xii) and any immaterial
amendment of such terms, other than the term of such NBCU Employee Agreement,
shall be deemed such a maintenance), in each case, other than Talent Contracts
(with respect to which clause  (xxi)  below shall
govern); 

(xii)     increase
the annual salary of any NBCU Business Employee who is within the Senior
Executive or GE Officer Band by more than 15% in the aggregate, without the
prior consent of Comcast (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld),
except as required by the terms of any existing agreement; 

(xiii)     except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, increase the
cash bonus under any non-formula based bonus arrangement of any NBCU Business
Employee who is within the Senior  

75 

Executive
or GE Officer Band without the prior consent of Comcast (which consent shall not
be unreasonably withheld); 

(xiv)     other
than as required by applicable Law or an existing agreement, without prior
consultation with Comcast, adopt or amend any bonus plan or other variable
compensation plan with a performance measurement period of greater than 12
months (excluding any period principally relating to an employee s obligation to
be employed on the payment date); 

(xv)     other
than as required by applicable Law or an existing agreement, without prior
consultation with Comcast, adopt or amend any material NBCU Subsidiary Plan
(other than a Multiemployer Plan) which is an employee pension or welfare
benefit plan (as defined in ERISA) (including any similar plan for employees
located primarily outside of the United States) which would materially increase
the costs thereof, except (A) announced changes as of the date hereof, (B) in
connection with or relating to the acquisition of a business or the commencement
of business in a new town, city, state or similar location, or (C) the
replacement of a similar plan;  provided ,  however , that nothing in this
Section 6.01(a)(xv) shall limit the ability of NBCU and its Affiliates to take
actions, or to cause any of NBCU s Subsidiaries to take actions, with respect to
NBCU Parent Plans to the extent such actions relate generally to the employees
of GE or any of its Affiliates that participate in such plans; 

(xvi)     make
any material change in any method of accounting or accounting policy used by the
NBCU Businesses in the preparation of its financial statements, other than such
changes as are required by U.S. GAAP or applicable Law or changes applying
generally to GE and its consolidated Subsidiaries; 

(xvii)     except
for Taxes, which are governed exclusively by the Tax Matters Agreement, enter
into any settlement or release with respect to any Action relating to the NBCU
Businesses on terms reasonably expected to (x) result in a payment by the NBCU
Transferors or NBCU Entities in excess of the greater of (A) $10 million and (B)
the amount reserved on the NBCU Financial Statements with respect thereto or (y)
impose ongoing limits on the conduct or operation of the NBCU
Businesses; 

(xviii)     forgive,
cancel, compromise, waive, release, assign, sell, transfer or relinquish any
Debts, rights, or receivables except for Debts, rights and receivables against
Persons (other than GE, Vivendi or their respective Affiliates (in each case,
other than NBCU or its Subsidiaries)) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $30
million that are forgiven,  

76 

cancelled,
compromised, waived, released, assigned, sold, transferred or relinquished in
the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; 

(xix)     permit
the amount of receivables of the NBCU Businesses that are factored, securitized
or subject to any similar arrangement, whether pursuant to a Factoring Agreement
or otherwise, to exceed $1.85 billion in the aggregate at any time
outstanding; 

(xx)     subject
to  Section 6.20(a) , (A) enter into any Related
Party NBCU Contract, other than Related Party NBCU Contracts entered into in the
ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, on arm s length
terms, or renew any Related Party NBCU Contract, other than renewals entered
into in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice on terms
substantially similar to those in effect immediately prior to such renewal, or
(B) amend, modify or terminate, or otherwise waive, release or assign any
rights, claims or benefits of any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity under, any
Related Party NBCU Contract other than amendments and modifications to reflect
changes to the terms thereof to the extent such changes are generally applicable
to the businesses of GE and its Subsidiaries; 

(xxi)     enter
into, modify, amend, renew or terminate any Designated NBCU
Contract; 

(xxii)     (A)
materially modify or amend, terminate (which shall not include expiration),
enter into, renew or extend (other than pursuant to an existing extension
option) the term of any lease listed on  Section
3.16(a)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter or other leases or subleases with
respect to real property, other than (x) leases or subleases with respect to
real property in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice
for an aggregate rental payment over the term of such lease or sublease to be
made on or after the Closing Date not to exceed $10 million and (y) Contracts
with respect to the rental or lease of real property for the purpose of
television or motion picture production (or television motion pictures for which
production has not concluded), or (B) accept any payments under any NBCU Leased
Real Property more than thirty days in advance or purchase or exercise any
option for the purchase or lease of any real property other than in the ordinary
course of business consistent with past practice;  provided ,  however  that in the event
that Comcast does not respond to NBCU s written request for consent to any such
item within ten (10) Business Days of receipt of such request, Comcast shall be
deemed to have consented; 

77 

(xxiii)     adopt
a plan of complete or partial liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or
other reorganization; 

(xxiv)     except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and as
commercially reasonable in the NBCU Transferors  or NBCU Entities  reasonable
business judgment, fail to make all filings, pay all fees, and take all other
similar actions necessary to obtain, maintain, perfect or renew any of the NBCU
Owned Intellectual Property; 

(xxv)     amend
any provision of their articles of incorporation or bylaws or other equivalent
organizational documents or consent to or approve any amendment to any provision
of the articles of incorporation or bylaws or other equivalent organizational
documents of any Person that is not a Subsidiary of NBCU but in which (A) a NBCU
Entity holds an equity interest with a value in excess of $25 million or (B) a
NBCU Transferor holds an equity interest with a value in excess of $25 million
that constitutes a Contributed NBCU Asset; 

(xxvi)     (A)
enter into any Contract containing any provision pursuant to which the
execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or the other Transaction
Agreements, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or
thereby, would result in any Person having the right to receive any termination
fee or liquidated damages or alter the terms of such Contract, or (B) knowingly
take any action that would result in causing any NBCU Transferor or NBCU Entity
to fail to satisfy a standard ( e.g. , level of net worth)
that if not satisfied would result in any Person party to such Contract having a
termination or consent right under such Contract (which right such Person did
not have prior to the taking of such action), or would change the basis on which
any such Person is permitted to exercise a termination or consent right under
such Contract, as a result of the execution, delivery or performance of this
Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements or the consummation of the
transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; or 

(xxvii)     enter
into any legally binding commitment with respect to any of the
foregoing; 

provided , that in the event
that Comcast fails to provide its consent to any action that could be considered
a business opportunity within the scope of the NBCU Businesses for which NBCU
has requested Comcast s consent, Comcast hereby acknowledges and agrees that it
may not seek to take advantage of, or participate in any manner in, such
business opportunity. 

Nothing
in Section 6.01(a)(v) or, to the extent not having an adverse effect on Newco or
the NBCU Entities, Section 6.01(a)(xxiii) shall be deemed to limit  

78 

the
transfer of Excluded NBCU Assets from the NBCU Entities prior to the
Closing. 

(b)     Comcast.  From
the date of this Agreement through the Closing, except as required by applicable
Law or any Governmental Authority, as otherwise expressly contemplated by the
Transaction Agreements (including  Section 6.05  and
 Section 6.14 ) and for matters identified in  Section 6.01(b)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter,
unless GE otherwise consents in writing in advance (which consent, except in the
case of Section 6.01(b)(ii), shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or
delayed), Comcast will, and will cause the other Comcast Transferors and
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries to, (x) conduct the Contributed Comcast
Businesses and operations thereof in the ordinary course of business consistent
with past practice (including paying accounts payable and collecting accounts
receivable in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice),
(y) use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact the business
organizations of the Contributed Comcast Businesses, keep available the services
of their executive officers and key Comcast Business Employees who are in good
standing, maintain Comcast Owned Real Property and Comcast Leased Real Property
in the ordinary course consistent with past practice, as appropriate in the
reasonable good faith judgment of Comcast from time to time and preserve their
current business relationships with the material customers, authors, producers,
directors, actors, performers, announcers, suppliers, advertisers, distributors,
business partners and others persons having business dealings with them and (z)
with respect to the Contributed Comcast Businesses and Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries, not do any of the following: 

(i)     except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, grant, permit
or create any Lien (other than a Permitted Lien) on any Comcast Assets (whether
tangible or intangible) with a value individually in excess of $10 million or,
in the aggregate, in excess of $25 million; 

(ii)     (A)
except for the Relevant Transactions, acquire (through Comcast or any of its
Affiliates) by merger, consolidation, combination or amalgamation, or (B)
acquire any equity interest in or assets of, any corporation, partnership,
association or other business organization or division thereof, in each case,
for consideration (including any Debt for borrowed money acquired or assumed in
such transaction), in an amount greater than $100 million in any single
transaction or $250 million in the aggregate (it being understood that each
Relevant Transaction (other than the Relevant Transactions set forth on Section
6.22 of the Comcast Disclosure Letter) shall be applied toward such $250 million
aggregate limitation);  provided  that such aggregate
cap of $250 million shall not prohibit Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries 
ability to enter into any Library Underlying Agreement or to acquire any Library
Literary  

79 

Properties,
in each case in the ordinary course of business and for consideration on a per
transaction basis of $20 million or less (excluding participation and similar
variable payments); 

(iii)     except
for Debt assumed or incurred in a transaction permitted pursuant to  Section 6.01(b)(ii) , create, incur, guarantee or
assume any Debt, issue any debt securities or assume, grant, guarantee or
endorse, or otherwise as an accommodation become responsible for, the
obligations of any Person, or make any loans or advances (in each case, other
than (A) in the ordinary course of business in amounts and on terms consistent
with past practice as permitted under the Contracts set forth on  Section 6.01(b)(iii)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter,
(B) pursuant to intercompany borrowing arrangements (x) that will be repaid in
full and terminated at Closing or (y) solely between or among Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries and (C) guarantees of (1) leases entered into by Comcast or
any direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of Comcast with respect to the
Comcast Leased Real Property or (2) other obligations not exceeding $15 million
in the aggregate); 

(iv)     issue
or sell any additional shares of, or other equity interests in, any of the
Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, or securities
convertible into or exchangeable for such shares or equity interests (other
than, in each case, the issuance or sale of shares of, or other equity interests
in, one Contributed Comcast Subsidiary to another Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary), or issue or grant any options, warrants, calls, subscription
rights, profit participation rights (other than profit participation rights
relating to television programs granted in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice) or other rights of any kind, contingently or
otherwise, to acquire such shares, other equity interests or securities, or any
securities convertible into or exchangeable for such equity securities, or amend
the terms of any such shares, equity interests or securities or options,
warrants, calls, subscription rights or other rights outstanding, or effect any
recapitalization, reclassification, stock split or like change in the
capitalization of any Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary; 

(v)     license,
sell, transfer, lease, sublease, or otherwise dispose of any Comcast Assets,
Comcast Owned Real Property, Comcast Owned Intellectual Property or Comcast
Technology, other than (i) sales or licensing of products, programming or other
goods and services in the ordinary course of business consistent with past
practice (including pursuant to Exploitation Agreements) and (ii) any other such
transaction for consideration individually in excess of $100 million or, in the
aggregate, in excess of $250 million; 

80 

(vi)     [intentionally
omitted] 

(vii)     recognize
any new union, works council or other similar employee representative, except as
required by applicable Law; 

(viii)     without
the prior consent of GE (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld),
enter into any Collective Bargaining Agreement, or renew or enter into a
mid-term modification (excluding resolutions of grievances relating to or
interpretations of a Collective Bargaining Agreement) of any existing Collective
Bargaining Agreement, in each case, that applies to at least 500 Comcast
Transferred Employees; 

(ix)     without
prior consultation with GE (and, if applicable pursuant to  Section 6.01(b)(viii) , the prior consent of GE), enter
into any Collective Bargaining Agreement, or renew or enter into a mid-term
modification (excluding resolutions of grievances relating to or interpretations
of a Collective Bargaining Agreement) of any existing Collective Bargaining
Agreement, in each case, with the Screen Actors Guild; Directors Guild of
America; Writers Guild of America; International Brotherhood of Teamsters;
National Association of Broadcast Employees and Technicians-Communications
Workers of America (NABET); International Alliance of Theatrical Stage
Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts of the United
States, Its Territories and Canada (IATSE); American Federation of Television
and Radio Artists (AFTRA); Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio
Artists (ACTRA); or American Federation of Musicians and Actor s Equity
Association; 

(x)     without
prior consultation with GE, effectuate any  mass layoffs  within the meaning of
the WARN Act; 

(xi)     with
respect to any Comcast Transferred Employee whose aggregate annual cash
compensation exceeds $750,000, (A) enter into any Comcast Employee Agreement
that has a term of more than three years (or materially amend any such Comcast
Employee Agreement) or (B) extend the term of any Comcast Employee Agreement by
more than three years (other than any extension that maintains the existing
terms of such Comcast Employee Agreement;  provided  that any increase of
annual salary to the extent permitted by  Section
6.01(b)(xii)  and any immaterial amendment of such terms, other than the term
of such Comcast Employee Agreement, shall be deemed such a maintenance), in each
case, other than Talent Contracts (with respect to which clause  (xx)  below shall govern); 

(xii)     increase
the annual salary of the president of the Comcast programming division or any of
his direct reports by more than 15% in the  

81 

aggregate,
without the prior consent of GE (which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld), except as required by the terms of any existing
agreement; 

(xiii)     except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, increase the
cash bonus under any non-formula based bonus arrangement of the president of the
Comcast programming division or any of his direct reports without the prior
consent of GE (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld); 

(xiv)     other
than as required by applicable Law or an existing agreement, without prior
consultation with GE, adopt or amend any bonus plan or other variable
compensation plan with a performance measurement period of greater than 12
months (excluding any period principally relating to an employee s obligation to
be employed on the payment date); 

(xv)     other
than as required by applicable Law or an existing agreement, without prior
consultation with GE, adopt or amend any material Comcast Subsidiary Plan (other
than a Multiemployer Plan) which is an employee pension or welfare benefit plan
(as defined in ERISA) (including any similar plan for employees located
primarily outside of the United States) which would materially increase the
costs thereof, except (A) announced changes as of the date hereof, (B) in
connection with or relating to the acquisition of a business or the commencement
of business in a new town, city, state or similar location, or (C) the
replacement of a similar plan;  provided ,  however , that nothing in this
 Section 6.01(b)(xv)  shall limit the ability of
Comcast and its Affiliates to take actions, or to cause any of Comcast s
Subsidiaries to take actions, with respect to Comcast Parent Plans to the extent
such actions relate generally to the employees of Comcast or any of its
Affiliates that participate in such plans; 

(xvi)     make
any material change in any method of accounting or accounting policy used by the
Contributed Comcast Businesses in the preparation of its financial statements,
other than such changes as are required by U.S. GAAP or applicable Law or
changes applying generally to Comcast and its consolidated
Subsidiaries; 

(xvii)     except
for Taxes, which are governed exclusively by the Tax Matters Agreement, enter
into any settlement or release with respect to any Action relating to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses on terms reasonably expected to (x) result in a
payment by the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries in excess
of the greater of (A) $5 million and (B) the amount reserved on the Comcast
Financial Statements  

82 

with
respect thereto or (y) impose ongoing limits on the conduct or operation of the
Contributed Comcast Businesses; 

(xviii)     forgive,
cancel, compromise, waive, release, assign, sell, transfer or relinquish any
Debts, rights, or receivables except for Debts, rights and receivables against
Persons (other than Comcast or its Affiliates) in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $15 million that are forgiven, cancelled, compromised, waived, released,
assigned, sold, transferred or relinquished in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice; 

(xix)     (A)
enter into any Related Party Comcast Contract, other than Related Party Comcast
Contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business consistent with past
practice, or renew any Related Party Comcast Contract, other than in the
ordinary course consistent with past practice on terms substantially similar to
those in effect immediately prior to such renewal or (B) amend, modify or
terminate, or otherwise waive, release or assign any rights, claims or benefits
of any Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast Subsidiary under, any Related
Party Comcast Contract other than in the ordinary course of business consistent
with past practice other than amendments and modifications to reflect changes to
the terms thereof to the extent such changes are generally applicable to the
businesses of Comcast and its Subsidiaries; 

(xx)     enter
into, modify, amend, renew or terminate any Designated Comcast
Contract; 

(xxi)     (A)
materially modify or amend, terminate (which shall not include expiration),
enter into, renew or extend (other than pursuant to an existing extension
option) the term of any lease listed on Section 5.17(a) of the Comcast
Disclosure Letter or other leases or subleases or other Contracts with respect
to real property, other than (x) leases or subleases with respect to real
property in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice for an
aggregate rental payment over the term of such lease or sublease to be made on
or after the Closing Date not to exceed $10 million and (y) Contracts with
respect to the rental or lease of real property for the purpose of television
production (or television programming for which production has not concluded),
or (B) accept any payments under any Comcast Leased Real Property more than
thirty days in advance or purchase or exercise any option for the purchase or
lease of any real property other than in the ordinary course of business
consistent with past practice;  provided ,  however , that in the event
that GE does not respond to Comcast s written request for consent to any such
item within ten (10) Business Days of receipt of such request, GE shall be
deemed to have consented; 

83 

(xxii)     adopt
a plan of complete or partial liquidation, dissolution, merger, consolidation or
other reorganization; 

(xxiii)     except
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice and as
commercially reasonable in the Comcast Transferors  or Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries reasonable business judgment, fail to make all filings, pay all
fees, and take all other similar actions necessary to obtain, maintain, perfect
or renew any of the Comcast Owned Intellectual Property; 

(xxiv)     amend
any provision of their articles of incorporation or bylaws or other equivalent
organizational documents or consent to or approve any amendment to any provision
of the articles of incorporation or bylaws or other equivalent organizational
documents of any Person that is not a Subsidiary of Comcast but in which (A) a
Contributed Comcast Subsidiary holds an equity interest with a value in excess
of $25 million or (B) a Comcast Transferor holds an equity interest with a value
in excess of $25 million that constitutes a Contributed Comcast
Asset; 

(xxv)     (A)
enter into any Contract containing any provision to which the execution,
delivery or performance of this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements,
or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, would
result in any Person having the right to receive any termination fee or
liquidated damages or alter the terms of such Contract, or (B) knowingly take
any action that would result in causing any Comcast Transferor or Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary to fail to satisfy a standard ( e.g. , level of net worth)
that if not satisfied would result in any Person party to such Contract having a
termination or consent right under such Contract (which right such Person did
not have prior to the taking of such action), or would change the basis on which
any such Person is permitted to exercise a termination or consent right under
such Contract, as a result of the execution, delivery or performance of this
Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements or the consummation of the
transactions contemplated hereby or thereby; or 

(xxvi)     enter
into any legally binding commitment with respect to any of the
foregoing; 

provided , that in the event
that NBCU fails to provide its consent to any action that could be considered a
business opportunity within the scope of the Contributed Comcast Businesses for
which Comcast has requested NBCU s consent, NBCU hereby acknowledges and agrees
that it may not seek to take advantage of, or participate in any manner in, such
business opportunity. 

84 

Nothing
in   Section
6.01(b)(v)   or, to the extent not having an adverse effect on Newco or
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries,  Section
6.01(b)(xxii)  shall be deemed to limit the transfer of Excluded Comcast
Assets from the Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries prior to
the Closing. 

Section
6.02      .  Access to
Information.   From the date hereof until the Closing, each of
NBCU and Comcast (the   Delivering Party  ) shall, and
shall cause its respective Subsidiaries to, give the other party (the   Requesting Party  ) and its
Representatives reasonable access during normal business hours to the
properties, books and records of the Delivering Party s Contributed Businesses,
furnish them with such information and documents in its possession relating to
such Contributed Business as the Requesting Party may from time to time
reasonably request in connection with the Delivering Party s Contributed
Businesses and instruct its Representatives to cooperate with the Requesting
Party in its investigation (including workpapers, books and records and other
documents relevant to the calculation of NBCU Interim Free Cash Flow, Trailing
EBITDA of NBCU and Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed Comcast Businesses);  provided  that (i) the
Requesting Party shall not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of business
of the Delivering Party or any of its Affiliates; (ii) the furnishing of such
documents or information shall not violate confidentiality obligations to a
client or other third party or jeopardize the attorney-client privilege of the
Delivering Party or any of its Affiliates (in which case the parties hereto will
use their reasonable best efforts to institute appropriate substitute disclosure
arrangements, to the extent practical in the circumstances); (iii) no party
hereto shall be required to disclose information that is, in its reasonable
judgment, competitively sensitive; and (iv) the auditors and accountants of the
Delivering Party (and its Affiliates) shall not be obliged to make any work
papers available to any Person except in accordance with such auditors  and
accountants  normal disclosure procedures and then only after such Person has
signed a customary agreement relating to such access to work papers in form and
substance reasonably acceptable to such auditors or accountants.  If
so requested by the Delivering Party and to the extent applicable, the
Requesting Party shall enter into a customary joint defense agreement with the
Delivering Party and its Affiliates with respect to any information to be
provided to the Requesting Party pursuant to this  Section 6.02 .  Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary contained herein, prior to the Closing, without the prior written
consent of the applicable other parties hereto, which may be withheld for any
reason, no party hereto or any of its Representatives shall contact any joint
venture of the other party (or any third party partner or member of any such
joint ventures), any suppliers to, distributors to, or customers of such party
or such party s Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated by the
Transaction Agreements.  All information and other documents obtained
or provided pursuant to this  Section 6.02  shall be
subject to the Confidentiality Agreement.  No information or knowledge
obtained in any investigation pursuant to this  Section
6.02  shall  

85 

affect
or be deemed to modify any representation or warranty made by any party
hereunder. 

Section
6.03      .  Retention of Books and
Records.   The NBCU Transferors, the Comcast Transferors, and
their respective Affiliates shall have the right to retain copies of all books
and records of the NBCU Businesses and Contributed Comcast Businesses,
respectively, relating to periods ending on or prior to the Closing
Date. 

Section
6.04      .  Confidentiality.   The
terms of the Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure Agreement dated April 1, 2009
(the   Confidentiality
Agreement  ) between GE and Comcast are incorporated in, and made a part
of, this Agreement as if set forth in full herein and shall continue in full
force and effect (and the confidentiality obligations thereunder shall be
binding upon GE, Comcast and their respective Affiliates and Representatives as
if parties thereto) until the Closing, at which time the confidentiality
obligations under the Confidentiality Agreement shall terminate;  provided ,  however , that such
confidentiality obligations shall terminate only in respect of that portion of
the confidential information exclusively relating to the Combined
Businesses.  If, for any reason, the Closing does not occur, the
Confidentiality Agreement shall continue in full force and effect in accordance
with its terms. 

Section
6.05      .  Reasonable Best
Efforts; Regulatory and Other Authorizations;
Consents.   (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions
of this Agreement, each of the parties hereto shall use its reasonable best
efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and to do, or cause to be
done, all things necessary or desirable to consummate the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, including using its reasonable best efforts to
(i) prepare and file as promptly as practicable with any Governmental Authority
or other third party all documentation to effect all necessary filings, notices,
petitions, statements, registrations, submissions of information, applications
and other documents, (ii) resolve such objections, if any, as may be asserted by
any Governmental Authority with respect to the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement under the HSR Act and any other Law in any relevant jurisdiction and
(iii) avoid the entry of, or effect the dissolution of, any decree, order,
judgment, injunction, temporary restraining order or other order in any suit or
proceeding, that would otherwise have the effect of preventing or materially
impairing or delaying the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement (including, by defending any lawsuits or other legal proceedings,
whether judicial or administrative, challenging this Agreement or the
consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby).  For the
purposes of this  Section 6.05 ,  reasonable best
efforts  shall include taking any and all actions necessary to obtain the
required Governmental Approvals (including substantial conditions, undertakings
or divestitures that would have a serious and significant adverse impact on the
current or future business or operations of any of Newco, Comcast or GE, each
taken as a whole);  provided  that no party hereto
shall be obligated to take any action that would reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Material Impact on the current or future
business or operations of Newco, Comcast  

86 

or
GE.  For purposes of this  Section 6.05 ,
  Material Impact   means
a significant and ongoing adverse financial or operational impact that is of
sufficient magnitude that, if known at the time hereof, a reasonable
businessperson would not have proceeded with the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, after weighing the anticipated benefits of such transactions
against the adverse consequences of the proposed condition or
actions.  The party asserting that a Material Impact has occurred
shall bear the burden of proof. 

(b)     GE
and Comcast each agrees to make or cause to be made an appropriate filing of a
notification and report form pursuant to the HSR Act with respect to the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement as promptly as practicable after the
date of this Agreement and to supply as promptly as practicable any additional
information and documentary material that may be requested pursuant to the HSR
Act.  In addition, each of GE and Comcast agrees to make promptly any
filing that may be required with respect to the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement under any other antitrust or competition Law or by any other
antitrust or competition authority.  The filing fees associated with
the HSR Act filings and any other similar filings required in any other
jurisdictions shall be shared equally by GE and Comcast. 

(c)     The
parties hereto each agrees to promptly notify the other parties of any oral or
written communication it receives from any Governmental Authority relating to
the matters that are the subject of this Agreement, permit the other parties to
review in advance any communication proposed to be made by such party to any
Governmental Authority and provide the other parties with copies of all
correspondence, filings or other communications between them or any of their
Representatives, on the one hand, and any Governmental Authority or members of
its staff, on the other hand, subject to  Section
6.02 .  No party to this Agreement shall agree to participate in
any significant meeting or discussion with any Governmental Authority in respect
of any such filings, investigation or other inquiry unless it consults with the
other parties in advance and, to the extent permitted by such Governmental
Authority, gives the other parties the opportunity to attend and participate at
such meeting.  Subject to the Confidentiality Agreement and to  Section 6.02 , each party hereto will coordinate and
cooperate fully with the other parties hereto in exchanging such information and
providing such assistance as the other parties may reasonably request in
connection with the foregoing and in seeking early termination of any applicable
waiting periods under the HSR Act (and any similar Law in any other relevant
non-U.S. jurisdiction).  Nothing in this  Section 6.05(c)  shall be applicable to Tax
matters. 

(d)     Notwithstanding
anything in this Agreement to the contrary: 

87 

(i)     Comcast
acknowledges on behalf of itself and its Affiliates and its and their directors,
officers, employees, Affiliates, agents, representatives, successors and assigns
that the operation of the NBCU Businesses shall remain in the dominion and
control of NBCU until the Closing and that none of the foregoing Persons will
provide, directly or indirectly, any directions, orders or advice to any
director, officer or employee of any of the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU
Entities, except as specifically contemplated or permitted by this  Article 6  or as otherwise consented to in advance by
an executive officer of NBCU; and 

(ii)     NBCU
acknowledges on behalf of itself and its Affiliates and its and their directors,
officers, employees, Affiliates, agents, representatives, successors and assigns
that the operation of the Contributed Comcast Businesses shall remain in the
dominion and control of Comcast until the Closing and that none of the foregoing
Persons will provide, directly or indirectly, any directions, orders or advice
to any director, officer or employee of any of the Comcast Transferors or the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, except as specifically contemplated or
permitted by this  Article 6  or as otherwise
consented to in advance by an executive officer of Comcast. 

(e)     GE
shall within ten (10) Business Days of the date of this Agreement take any and
all actions necessary to cause the NBCU Board of Directors to duly authorize the
execution, delivery and performance by NBCU of the Transaction Agreements to
which it is a party and the consummation by NBCU of the transactions
contemplated by, and the performance by NBCU under, the Transaction Agreements
to which it is a party. 

Section
6.06      .  Insurance.    (a) From and after the
Closing Date, the NBCU Assets and the NBCU Entities shall cease to be insured
by, have access or availability to, be entitled to make claims on, be entitled
to claim benefits from or seek coverage under any Insurance Arrangement of any
GE Entity, other than (x) with respect to any NBCU Transferred Insurance Policy
and (y) subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable NBCU Related
Insurance Policy, with respect to any claim, act, omission, event, circumstance,
occurrence or loss that occurred or existed on or prior to the Closing Date (and
then only to the extent that such claim, act, omission, event, circumstance,
occurrence or loss occurred or existed on or prior to the Closing Date) that
would be covered by such NBCU Related Insurance Policy,  provided  that: 

(i)     such
claim, act, omission, event, circumstance, occurrence or loss was or is reported
in accordance with the terms of such NBCU Related Insurance Policy to the
applicable insurer or third party claims administrator (x) with respect to any
claims-made or occurrence-reported NBCU Related Insurance Policy, prior to the
Closing Date, (y) with  

88 

respect
to the GE GL Insurance Program, no later than the first anniversary of the
Closing Date or (z) with respect to the GE WC Insurance Program or the GE Auto
Liability Insurance Program, at any time after the Closing Date; 

(ii)     Newco
or any NBCU Entity shall promptly notify GE s corporate insurance department of
such claim and/or efforts to seek benefits or coverage with respect to such
claim and shall reasonably cooperate with GE in pursuing such claims;  provided  that Newco shall be
solely responsible for notifying the applicable insurance companies of and
complying with all policy conditions for such claim; 

(iii)     GE
shall have the right but not the duty to monitor and/or participate in (with
respect to claims under the GE WC Insurance Program) or control (with respect to
claims under any other NBCU Related Insurance Policy) any coverage claim or
request for benefits asserted by Newco or any NBCU Entity under the applicable
NBCU Related Insurance Policy; 

(iv)     (A)
Newco and the NBCU Entities shall exclusively bear (and no GE Entity shall have
any obligation to repay or reimburse Newco or any NBCU Entity) the amount of,
any and all deductibles, retentions and/or self insurance associated with any
claim under any NBCU Related Insurance Policy, whether such claim is made by
Newco, any NBCU Entity, a NBCU Business Employee, a Former NBCU Business
Employee or a third party, and shall be liable for all uninsured, uncovered,
unavailable or uncollectible amounts of such claim, and (B) Newco shall, or
shall cause one or more of the NBCU Entities to, promptly reimburse the GE
Entities for all third party claims administration fees and other reasonable
out-of-pocket costs, including taxes, surcharges, state assessments and
reinsurance costs, relating to such claim, whether such claim is made by Newco,
any NBCU Entity, a NBCU Business Employee, a Former NBCU Business Employee or a
third party, in each case in clause (B), solely to the extent no GE Entity is
otherwise reimbursed by a third party for such amounts; 

(v)     With
respect to any claim payments made under the GE WC Insurance Program, including
those relating to a NBCU Business Employee or Former NBCU Business Employee,
whether such claims are made by Newco, any NBCU Entity, a NBCU Business
Employee, a Former NBCU Business Employee or a third party, Newco shall, or
shall cause one or more of the NBCU Entities to, promptly reimburse the GE
Entities for (1) all such claim payments and (2) without duplication of any
amounts reimbursable to the GE Entities pursuant to clause  (B)  of paragraph  (iv) 
above, the pro rata portion of any catastrophic coverage  

89 

charges,
overhead, claim handling and administrative costs, taxes, surcharges, state
assessments, reinsurance costs, and other related reasonable out-of-pocket costs
incurred by the GE WC Insurance Program allocable to such claims in accordance
with the GE WC Insurance Program and consistent with the past practices of GE
and its Subsidiaries prior to the date hereof (it being understood that none of
Newco or any of the NBCU Entities shall be responsible for reimbursing any claim
payments under any GE Auto Liability Insurance Program or GE GL Insurance
Program); 

(vi)     With
respect to any NBCU Related Insurance Policy, neither Newco nor any NBCU Entity
shall, without the written consent of GE, (A) erode, exhaust, settle, release,
commute, buy-back or otherwise resolve disputes with respect to such NBCU
Related Insurance Policy, or amend, modify or waive any rights under any such
NBCU Related Insurance Policy, or (B) seek to assign such NBCU Related Insurance
Policy or its rights or claims under such NBCU Related Insurance Policy;
and 

(vii)     For
avoidance of doubt, neither Newco nor any NBCU Entity shall be permitted or have
any right to be insured by, have access or availability to, make claims on, be
entitled to benefits from, or seek coverage under any NBCU Related Insurance
Policy other than as permitted by and in accordance with this  Section 6.06(a) , including the provisions regarding
periods for bringing claims set forth in  Section
6.06(a)(i) . 

(b)     The
GE Entities shall retain the exclusive right to control all of their respective
Insurance Arrangements, including the NBCU Related Insurance Policies, and the
benefits payable thereunder, including the right to exhaust, settle, release,
commute, buy-back or otherwise resolve disputes with respect to any of its
Insurance Arrangements and programs and to amend, modify or waive any rights
under any such Insurance Arrangements, notwithstanding whether any such
Insurance Arrangements apply to any Liabilities and/or claims Newco or any NBCU
Entity has made or could make in the future;  provided  that (i) on and
after the Closing Date, only Newco and its Subsidiaries shall have the right to
control, settle, release, commute, buy-back or otherwise resolve claims made
under any NBCU Transferred Insurance Policy and (ii) from the date hereof until
the Closing Date, GE and NBCU and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates
shall, except as would not adversely affect the rights of any NBCU Entity
(relative to other GE Entities) under any NBCU Exclusive Insurance Policy or
NBCU Related Insurance Policy, maintain the NBCU Exclusive Insurance Policies
and NBCU Related Insurance Policies in the ordinary course consistent with past
practice (including with respect to renewing such policies).  Each of
Newco and GE hereby gives consent for the other party to inform any affected

90 

insurer
of the provisions set forth in this  Section
6.06 .  In addition, Newco and the NBCU Entities shall use their
respective commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any Loss for which they
seek coverage under any NBCU Related Insurance Policy.  The order of
priority of any recoveries from such efforts shall inure first to the GE
Entities to reimburse any and all costs actually incurred by the GE Entities
directly or indirectly as a result of such Loss, solely to the extent no GE
Entity is otherwise reimbursed by Newco, any of Newco s Subsidiaries or a third
party for such amounts. 

(c)     Any
payments, costs and adjustments required to be made by Newco or the NBCU
Entities pursuant to any provision of this  Section
6.06  shall be billed quarterly and payable within 30 days from receipt of
invoice. 

(d)     This
Agreement shall not be considered as an attempted assignment of any policy of
insurance or as a contract of insurance, and shall not be construed in any
manner to waive any right or remedy of any GE Entity in respect of any Insurance
Program.  Between the date hereof and Closing, GE shall, and shall
cause its Subsidiaries to, use their respective commercially reasonable efforts
to transfer any NBCU Exclusive Insurance Policy that is not directly and
exclusively in the name of any NBCU Entity directly and exclusively to the name
of a NBCU Entity in accordance with the provisions of such NBCU Exclusive
Insurance Policy. 

(e)     Following
the Closing Date, Newco will cause the NBCU Entities to comply with the
obligations of the NBCU Entities under this  Section
6.06 . 

(f)     No
GE Entity shall have any obligation to secure extended reporting under any NBCU
Related Insurance Policy for any claims under any claims-made or
occurrence-reported insurance policies of any GE Entity for any events, acts or
omissions incurred prior to the Effective Time. 

(g)     Notwithstanding
anything in this Agreement to the contrary, it is agreed and understood that the
NBCU Excluded Policies will be terminated effective as of the Closing
Date.  Coverage under such NBCU Excluded Policies shall remain
available in accordance with (and subject to the terms of) this  Section 6.06  with respect to any claim, act, omission,
event, circumstance, occurrence or loss that was or is reported in accordance
with the terms of such NBCU Related Insurance Policy to the applicable insurer
or third party claims administrator prior to the Closing Date. 

Section
6.07      .  Letters of Credit;
Other Obligations.    (a) At or prior to the
Closing, NBCU shall (a) arrange for substitute letters of credit, NBCU
guarantees and other obligations to replace (i) any letters of credit,
guarantees, surety bonds, performance bonds and other contractual obligations
entered into by or on behalf of GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than solely
by the NBCU Entities) in  

91 

connection
with the NBCU Businesses (together, the   GE LCs  ) outstanding as of the
date of this Agreement that are not Excluded NBCU Liabilities and (ii) any GE
LCs entered into in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past
practice on or after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing or
(b) assume all obligations under each GE LC, obtaining from the creditor or
other counterparty a full release (in a form reasonably satisfactory to GE) of
all parties liable, directly or indirectly, for reimbursement to the creditor or
fulfillment of other obligations to a counterparty in connection with amounts
drawn under the GE LCs.  NBCU further agrees that to the extent the
beneficiary or counterparty under any GE LC does not accept any such substitute
letter of credit, NBCU guarantee or other obligation proffered by NBCU, NBCU
shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless GE against, and reimburse GE for, any
and all amounts paid, including costs or expenses in connection with such GE
LCs, including GE s expenses in maintaining such GE LCs, whether or not any such
GE LC is drawn upon or required to be performed, and shall in any event promptly
reimburse GE to the extent any GE LC is called upon and GE or its Subsidiaries
make any payment or are obligated to reimburse the party issuing the GE
LC.  At the request of GE, NBCU shall provide GE with letters of
credit in an amount equal to GE s and its Subsidiaries  entire potential
liability pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence. 

(b)           At
or prior to the Closing, NBCU shall (a) arrange for substitute letters of
credit, NBCU guarantees and other obligations to replace (i) any letters of
credit, guarantees, surety bonds, performance bonds and other contractual
obligations entered into by or on behalf of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries
(other than solely by the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries) in connection with
the Contributed Comcast Businesses (together, the   Comcast LCs  ) outstanding as
of the date of this Agreement that are not Excluded Comcast Liabilities and
(ii) any Comcast LCs entered into in the ordinary course of business and
consistent with past practice on or after the date of this Agreement and prior
to the Closing or (b) assume all obligations under each Comcast LC,
obtaining from the creditor or other counterparty a full release (in a form
reasonably satisfactory to Comcast) of all parties liable, directly or
indirectly, for reimbursement to the creditor or fulfillment of other
obligations to a counterparty in connection with amounts drawn under the Comcast
LCs.  NBCU further agrees that to the extent the beneficiary or
counterparty under any Comcast LC does not accept any such substitute letter of
credit, NBCU guarantee or other obligation proffered by NBCU, NBCU shall
indemnify, defend and hold harmless Comcast against, and reimburse Comcast for,
any and all amounts paid, including costs or expenses in connection with such
Comcast LCs, including Comcast s expenses in maintaining such Comcast LCs,
whether or not any such Comcast LC is drawn upon or required to be performed,
and shall in any event promptly reimburse Comcast to the extent any Comcast LC
is called upon and Comcast or its Subsidiaries make any payment or are obligated
to reimburse the party issuing the Comcast LC.  At the request of
Comcast, NBCU shall provide Comcast with letters of credit in an  

92 

amount
equal to Comcast s and its Subsidiaries  entire potential liability pursuant to
the immediately preceding sentence. 

Section
6.08      .  Rights to GE Name and
GE Marks.   Subject to, and without limiting the representation
set forth in, the second sentence of  Section
3.12(f) : 

(a)     As
of the Closing Date, Newco and its Subsidiaries (including the NBCU Entities)
shall cease and discontinue all uses of the GE Name and GE Marks, except for any
such use which would not otherwise infringe, dilute or otherwise violate the
Intellectual Property rights of GE or any of its Subsidiaries in and to such GE
Name and GE Marks.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Agreement, Newco and its Subsidiaries may continue to use the GE Name and GE
Marks as embedded in stationery, powerpoints, promotional brochures, and other
promotional correspondence to the extent they are existing as of the Closing
Date for a period of forty-five (45) days following the Closing Date (the   Trademark   Transition
Period  ). 

(b)     Newco,
for itself and its Subsidiaries, agrees that, after the Closing Date, Newco and
its Subsidiaries will not expressly, or by implication, do business as or
represent themselves as GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU
Entity). 

(c)     Each
of Comcast and Newco, for itself and its Subsidiaries, acknowledges and agrees
that neither Newco nor any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) have any ownership
interest in or, except as set forth in  Section
6.08 , any license to any of the GE Name and GE Marks, (ii) for a period ten
(10) years following the Closing Date, contest the ownership or validity of any
rights of GE or any of its Subsidiaries in or to any of the Core GE Marks,
and/or (iii) during the Trademark Transition Period, contest the ownership
or validity of any rights of GE or any of its Subsidiaries in or to any of the
GE Name and GE Marks (other than the Core GE Marks). 

(d)     Notwithstanding
anything in this  Section 6.08  to the contrary,
nothing in this  Section 6.08  shall prevent Newco or
any of its Subsidiaries from using any descriptive elements of the GE Name and
GE Marks or making any fair use of the GE Name and GE Marks. 

Section
6.09      .  Rights to NBCU
Trademarks.    (a) As of the Closing
Date, GE and its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) shall cease and
discontinue all uses of any and all Trademarks included in the NBCU Owned
Intellectual Property, except for any such use which would not otherwise
infringe, dilute or otherwise violate the Intellectual Property rights of Newco
or any of its Subsidiaries in and to  

93 

such
Trademarks, and GE, for itself and its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU
Entity), agrees that its and its Subsidiaries  rights to any such Trademarks
pursuant to the terms of any trademark agreements between GE and its
Subsidiaries on the one hand, and any NBCU Entity on the other hand, shall
terminate on the Closing Date. 

(b)     GE,
for itself and its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity), agrees that, after
the Closing Date, GE and its Subsidiaries will not expressly, or by implication,
do business as or represent themselves as Newco or any of its
Subsidiaries. 

(c)     GE,
for itself and its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity), acknowledges and
agrees that neither GE nor any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) have any ownership
interest in or any license to any Trademarks included in the NBCU Owned
Intellectual Property and/or (ii) for a period of ten (10) years following
the Closing Date, contest the ownership or validity of any rights of Newco or
any of its Subsidiaries in or to any such Trademarks. 

(d)     Notwithstanding
anything in this  Section 6.09  to the contrary,
nothing in this  Section 6.09  shall prevent GE or
any of its Subsidiaries from using any descriptive elements of the Trademarks
included in the NBCU Owned Intellectual Property or making any fair use of such
Trademarks. 

Section
6.10      .  Rights to Comcast Name
and Comcast Marks.    (a) Except as otherwise
provided in that certain Amended and Restated Trademark License Agreement
between Comcast and certain of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries dated as of
November 18, 2009 (the   Comcast
Trademark License  ), as of the Closing Date, Newco and its Subsidiaries
(including the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries) shall cease and discontinue all
uses of the Comcast Name and Comcast Marks, except for any such use which would
not otherwise infringe, dilute or otherwise violate the Intellectual Property
rights of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries in and to the Comcast Name and
Comcast Marks. 

(b)           Each
of GE and Newco, for itself and its Subsidiaries, acknowledges and agrees that
neither Newco nor any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) have any ownership
interest in or, except as set forth  Section 6.10 ,
any license to any of the Comcast Name and Comcast Marks, (ii) for a period ten
(10) years following the Closing Date, contest the ownership or validity of any
rights of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Newco or any of its
Subsidiaries) in or to any of the Core Comcast Marks, and/or (iii) during
the term of the Comcast Trademark License, contest the ownership or validity of
any rights of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Newco or any of its
Subsidiaries) in or to any of the Comcast Name and Comcast Marks (other than the
Core Comcast Marks). 

(c)           Notwithstanding
anything in this  Section 6.10  to the contrary,
nothing in this  Section 6.10  shall prevent Newco or
any of its Subsidiaries, from  

94 

using
any descriptive elements of the Comcast Name and Comcast Marks or making any
fair use of the Comcast Name and Comcast Marks. 

(d)           Comcast,
for itself and its Subsidiaries (other than Newco or any of its Subsidiaries),
acknowledges and agrees that neither Comcast nor any of its Subsidiaries shall,
for a period of ten (10) years following the Closing Date, contest the ownership
or validity of any rights of Newco or any of its Subsidiaries in or to any of
the Trademarks included in the Comcast Owned Intellectual Property. 

Section
6.11      .  Further Action
Regarding Intellectual Property and Technology.    (a) If, after the
Closing Date, GE, NBCU, Comcast or Newco identifies any item of NBCU
Intellectual Property, NBCU Technology, Comcast Intellectual Property or Comcast
Technology, that was not previously assigned or otherwise transferred by the
NBCU Transferors or Comcast Transferors, to Newco, then, to the extent that it
has the right to do so without paying material additional compensation to a
third party, the NBCU Transferors or Comcast Transferors, as applicable, shall
promptly assign and transfer the applicable Intellectual Property or Technology
to Newco for no additional consideration, subject to the terms and conditions of
this Agreement (including  Section 2.05 ) and the
license of (i) any such Comcast Intellectual Property or Comcast Technology to
Comcast and its Affiliates on the terms and conditions set forth in the Comcast
Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement or (ii) any such NBCU Intellectual
Property or NBCU Technology to GE and its Affiliates on the terms and conditions
set forth in the GE Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement. 

(b)           If,
after the Closing Date, GE or Newco identifies any item of GE Intellectual
Property or GE Technology that was transferred to Newco or one of its
Subsidiaries on or prior to the Closing Date, Newco shall (and Comcast shall
cause Newco to), or shall cause its applicable Subsidiary to, promptly assign
and transfer such GE Intellectual Property or GE Technology to GE or its
designated Affiliate for no additional consideration, subject to the license of
such GE Intellectual Property or GE Technology to Newco and its Subsidiaries on
the terms and conditions set forth in the GE Intellectual Property Cross License
Agreement. 

(c)           If,
after the Closing Date, Comcast or Newco identifies any item of Excluded Comcast
Intellectual Property or Excluded Comcast Technology that was transferred by the
Comcast Transferors to Newco or one of its Subsidiaries on or prior to the
Closing Date, Newco shall, or shall cause its applicable Subsidiary to, promptly
assign and transfer such Excluded Comcast Intellectual Property or Excluded
Comcast Technology to Comcast or its designated Affiliate for no additional
consideration, subject to the license of such Excluded Comcast Intellectual
Property or Excluded Comcast Technology to Newco and its  

95 

Subsidiaries
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Comcast Intellectual Property Cross
License Agreement. 

Section
6.12      .  Ancillary
Agreements.   At or prior to the Closing, the applicable parties
hereto shall or shall cause their applicable respective Affiliates to execute
and deliver: 

(a)     the
GE Transition Services Agreement, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit G-1
(the   GE Transition Services
Agreement   

(b)     the
Comcast Services Agreement, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit G-2 (the
  Comcast Services
Agreemen t  

(c)     the
GE Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement, in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit C-1 (the   GE
Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement   

(d)     the
Comcast Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement, in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit C-2 (the   Comcast Intellectual Property Cross
License Agreement   and 

(e)     the
Newco Operating Agreement, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D (the   Newco Operating
Agreement  ). 

Section
6.13      .  Further
Action.   (a)  Each of the parties hereto shall (i)
execute and deliver, or shall cause to be executed and delivered, such documents
and other papers and shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such further
actions as may be reasonably required to carry out the provisions of this
Agreement and the other Transaction Agreements and give effect to the
transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, including, (A) the acquisition or
transfer of any NBCU Licenses or Comcast Licenses (including Environmental
Permits and FCC Licenses) related to the NBCU Businesses or the NBCU Assets, the
Comcast Businesses or the Comcast Assets, (B) subject to  Section 6.16 , with respect to actions of GE, NBCU,
Comcast and their respective Affiliates, such actions as are necessary to obtain
the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, as applicable, (C) with respect to
actions of Comcast, such actions as are necessary to assure that Comcast has
available cash and/or borrowing facilities sufficient to enable it to consummate
such transactions and (D) Intellectual Property assignment agreements with
respect to the NBCU Registered IP or the Comcast Registered IP, as applicable,
in a form reasonably acceptable to Comcast (with respect to the NBCU Registered
IP) or GE (with respect to the Comcast Registered IP), (ii) shall refrain from
taking any action that would reasonably be expected to have the effect of
delaying, impairing or impeding the Closing;  provided  that the foregoing
shall not prohibit GE, Comcast or any of their respective Subsidiaries from
engaging in (A) ordinary course regulatory or commercial negotiations or other
actions (it being understood that, GE and Comcast shall (1) to the extent

96 

reasonably
practicable, consult with one another with respect to any such regulatory action
and (2) consider the pendency of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
in connection with the taking of any such action) or (B) any action set
forth in  Section 6.14  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter
or Comcast Disclosure Letter, as applicable, or any action to which the other
party specifically consents and (iii) subject to the foregoing and  Section 6.05(a) , shall use its commercially reasonable
efforts to cause all of the conditions to the obligations of the other party to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to be met on or prior
to the End Date. 

(b)     Each
of the parties hereto shall keep the other parties reasonably apprised of the
status of the matters relating to the completion of the transactions
contemplated hereby.  From time to time following the Closing, the
parties hereto shall, and shall cause their respective Affiliates to, execute,
acknowledge and deliver all reasonable further conveyances, notices,
assumptions, releases, acquittances and instruments, and shall take such
reasonable actions as may be necessary or appropriate to make effective the
transactions contemplated hereby as may be reasonably requested by any other
party (including transferring back to or assuming back from the applicable party
or its designated Affiliate any asset or liability not contemplated by this
Agreement to be a Contributed NBCU Asset, an Assumed NBCU Liability, a
Contributed Comcast Asset or an Assumed Comcast Liability, respectively, which
asset or liability was transferred or delegated by such party or its Affiliate
to Newco at the Closing). 

(c)     Each
of the parties hereto will cooperate to obtain any authorizations, consents,
waivers, orders and approvals that may be required in connection with the
transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements.  Except as
set forth in  Section 6.05 , no party hereto shall be
required to (and none of NBCU, Newco or any of their respective Subsidiaries
shall, without the mutual written consent of Comcast and GE) compensate any
third party, commence or participate in litigation or offer or grant any
accommodation (financial or otherwise) to any third party to obtain any consent
or approval.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, NBCU shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the consents and approvals necessary
or advisable under the agreements set forth on Section 6.13(c) of the NBCU
Disclosure Letter in connection with the transactions contemplated by the
Transaction Agreements (including, to the extent necessary and subject to the
prior consent of Comcast (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld),
incurring reasonable costs and expenses and making reasonable payments to the
applicable counterparties);  provided  that all such
reasonable, out-of-pocket costs, expenses and payments shall, to the extent paid
prior to the Closing, be initially paid by GE with Comcast causing an Affiliate
of Comcast to reimburse GE for 50% of the amount of such reasonable
out-of-pocket costs, expenses and payments promptly, and in any event within
five (5) Business Days, following receipt of a written request for such
reimbursement from GE (which request shall include reasonable supporting
documentation) and NBCU shall at or promptly following the Closing reimburse
each of GE and such Affiliate of Comcast for all such reasonable, out-of-pocket
costs, expenses and payments that it has so paid or reimbursed.  All
reasonable, out-of-pocket costs, expenses and payments incurred by Comcast or
any of its Affiliates with the prior consent of GE to obtain the consents and
approvals necessary or advisable under the agreements set forth on Section 5.04
of the Comcast Disclosure Letter shall (i) to the extent such costs, expenses
and payments are paid prior to the Closing, initially be paid by Comcast or an
Affiliate of Comcast with GE reimbursing Comcast or its applicable Affiliate for
50% of the amount of such costs, expenses and payments promptly, and in any
event within five (5) Business Days, following receipt of a written request for
such reimbursement from Comcast (which request shall include reasonable
supporting documentation) and  

97 

NBCU
shall at or promptly following the Closing reimburse each of Comcast or its
applicable Affiliate and GE for all such costs, expenses and payments that it
has so paid or reimbursed and (ii) to the extent such costs, expenses and
payments are paid at or following the Closing, be reimbursed by NBCU promptly
following receipt of demand therefor from Comcast. 

Section
6.14      .  Pre-Closing
Restructurings.   Prior to the Closing, NBCU and Comcast shall
complete the NBCU Restructuring and Comcast Restructuring, respectively, in
accordance with  Section 6.14  of NBCU Disclosure
Letter and  Section 6.14  of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter.  Following the date hereof, neither GE nor Comcast shall be
permitted to amend or modify  Section 6.14  of the
NBCU Disclosure Letter or the NBCU Restructuring or  Section 6.14  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter or the
Comcast Restructuring, respectively, without the consent of the other party
(which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld);  provided ,  however , that GE or Comcast,
as applicable, shall be deemed to have consented if, within ten calendar days of
receiving notice from GE or Comcast, as applicable, of a proposed amendment or
modification, such party fails to notify the other party that it is withholding
the requested consent. 

Section
6.15      .  Accounts
Receivable.   Upon Closing, each of the NBCU Transferors and
Comcast Transferors shall, by letter prepared by Newco and in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to the applicable Transferors, irrevocably authorize,
instruct and direct that the obligors of all account receivables included in the
applicable Contributed Businesses (such parties, the   Transferor Account Parties  )
make and deliver all payments relating thereto after the Closing Date to such
location, bank and account (the   Lockbox Account  ) as Newco
shall specify.  If, notwithstanding such letter, any of the Transferor
Account Parties remits any such payments on or after the Closing Date directly
or indirectly to any NBCU Transferor or Comcast Transferor instead of to the
Lockbox Account, GE or Comcast, as applicable, shall cause such NBCU Transferor
or Comcast Transferor to promptly deliver all such payments that it receives to
Newco. 

98 

Section
6.16      .  Financing.   (a)
NBCU may, subject to the consent of Comcast, enter into financing arrangements
as an alternative to the NBCU Financing that, when funded in accordance with,
and subject to the terms and conditions of, such alternative financing
arrangements will provide NBCU with funds sufficient to pay the NBCU Dividend in
full (any such alternative financing arrangements, the   Alternative Financing   and the
agreements relating to the Alternative Financing, the   Alternative Financing
Agreements  ).  NBCU shall, and GE shall cause NBCU to, use its
commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the NBCU Financing or Alternative
Financing, as applicable, on the terms of the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter
or Alternative Financing Agreements, as applicable, at or prior to the time that
all of the conditions set forth in  Article 9  have
been satisfied or waived (other than the conditions set forth in  Section 9.01(f) , and those conditions that by their
terms are to be satisfied at the Closing), including drawing down on the NBCU
Financing or Alternative Financing, as applicable, and using its commercially
reasonable efforts to (i) negotiate definitive agreements with respect to the
NBCU Financing (on the terms and conditions contained in the NBCU Financing
Commitment Letter) (the   NBCU
Financing Agreements  ) or Alternative Financing, as applicable, and (ii)
satisfy all conditions to closing or funding of the NBCU Financing or
Alternative Financing, as applicable, to the extent that satisfaction of such
conditions is within the control of NBCU;  provided, however , that the
use of such commercially reasonable efforts shall not require GE or NBCU to,
directly or indirectly, except as specifically provided in the NBCU Financing
Commitment Letter, (A) provide any guarantees, credit support or credit
enhancements of any kind, (B) maintain or support any working capital, equity
capital, financial statement condition, credit rating or debt rating or (C)
consent to any amendment, waiver, modification or other change to this Agreement
or the transactions contemplated hereby.  Comcast shall (x) deliver
any financial statements with respect to the Contributed Comcast Business
required by the NBCU Financing Agreements or the Alternative Financing
Agreements as and when required therein and (y) comply with any covenants
contained in the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter, the NBCU Financing Agreements
or the Alternative Financing Agreements that would be applicable to the
Contributed Comcast Business were the Contribution Comcast Businesses subject to
such covenants.  To the extent reasonably requested by Comcast, GE and
NBCU will keep Comcast informed on a current basis in reasonable detail of the
status of its efforts to consummate the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing,
as applicable, on the terms of the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter or
Alternative Financing Agreements, as applicable.  GE and NBCU will
provide Comcast with prompt notice of any material breach by any party of the
NBCU Financing Commitment Letter or any Alternative Financing Agreement or any
termination of the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter or any Alternative Financing
Agreement.  NBCU shall not, and GE shall cause NBCU not to, enter into
any definitive agreement with respect to the NBCU Financing or Alternative
Financing or terminate or agree to any amendment or modification to, or grant,
seek, obtain or rely upon  

99 

any
waiver under, the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter or any Alternative Financing
Agreement, in each case, without first receiving Comcast s written consent
thereto.  If any portion of the NBCU Financing or Alternative
Financing, as applicable, becomes unavailable on the terms and conditions
contemplated in the NBCU Financing Commitment Letter or the Alternative
Financing Agreements, as applicable, (i) NBCU shall, and GE shall cause NBCU to,
seek in good faith to arrange (subject to the consent of Comcast) to obtain such
portion from alternative sources on terms and conditions that are equivalent or
more favorable to NBCU as promptly as practicable and (ii) if such portion is
not obtained from alternative sources contemplated above, NBCU, GE and Comcast
shall work together in good faith to attempt to agree upon and implement
appropriate changes in financing arrangements or the transactions contemplated
hereby in order to permit the transactions contemplated hereby to be consummated
(it being understood that any such changes shall require the consents of GE and
Comcast). 

(b)     In
order to assist with obtaining the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, as
applicable, and any financings to be obtained by Comcast in connection with the
consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (it being
understood that the consummation of any such financing to be obtained by Comcast
shall not be a condition to the obligation of Comcast to consummate the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement), each of NBCU, Comcast and GE
shall, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries to, and shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts to cause its Representatives to, provide such
assistance and cooperation as NBCU or Comcast may reasonably request, including
(i) assisting with the preparation of any customary prospectus, offering
memorandum or similar document or marketing material, and cooperating with
initial purchasers or placement agents, (ii) making their respective senior
management, and the senior management of their Subsidiaries, reasonably
available for customary  roadshow  or syndication, presentations, lender or
proposed financing source meetings and rating agencies presentations, (iii)
cooperating with prospective lenders, underwriters, placement agents or initial
purchasers and their respective advisors in performing their due diligence, (iv)
providing all financial statements and financial and other information
reasonably requested by the financing sources for the NBCU Financing or
Alternative Financing, as applicable, or that would be required in an offering
of securities on a Form S-1 under the rules and regulations under the Securities
Act, including three full years of financial statements audited by a  big four 
auditing firm, any interim period financial statements that would be required by
the Securities Exchange Commission (reviewed in accordance with Statement of
Accounting Standards (  SAS  ) 100), any unaudited
selected financial data that would be required pursuant to Item 301 of
Regulation S-K of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and any pro forma
financial statements that would be required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission in the Form S-1, (v) causing their respective accountants, and the
accountants of their respective  

100 

Subsidiaries,
to provide comfort letters to any underwriters or initial purchasers consistent
with SAS 72, including standard negative assurance on any interim period of pro
forma financial statements, (vi) entering into customary agreements with
lenders, underwriters, initial purchasers and placement agents and their
respective advisors, (vii) helping procure other definitive financing documents
or other reasonably requested certificates or documents, including pledge and
security documents, customary certificates (including a certificate of their
respective chief financial officers with respect to solvency matters), legal
opinions and real estate title documentation and (viii) preparing and furnishing
to the financing sources under the NBCU Financing or the Alternative Financing
(x) prior to the Closing Date, the information required by Exhibit D to the NBCU
Financing Commitment Letter and (y) such financial statements and other
information as and when required by the definitive agreements with respect to
the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing, as applicable. 

Section
6.17      .  Future
Transactions.   Each of GE and Comcast acknowledges and agrees
that in the event that Comcast or Newco acquires any shares of capital stock of
Navy Holdco 2 after the date hereof from Navy Holdco 1, then each of GE and
Comcast shall enter into the Navy Holdco 2 Agreement, substantially in the form
attached hereto as Exhibit E (the   Navy Holdco 2
Agreement  ). 

Section
6.18      .  Indemnification and
Insurance.    (a) Following the
Closing, Newco agrees that all rights to exculpation, advancement of expenses,
and indemnification with respect to acts or omissions occurring at or prior to
Closing (including any matters arising in connection with the transactions
contemplated hereby), whether asserted or claimed prior to, at or after the
Closing, existing in favor of the current or former directors and officers of
NBCU or the other NBCU Entities (collectively, the   D O Indemnitees  ) by
virtue of any provision of the articles of incorporation, by-laws or comparable
organizational documents of NBCU, the other NBCU Entities or any indemnification
or other agreement shall survive the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby and shall continue in full force and effect following the
Closing.  Following the Closing, Newco shall (a) maintain in effect
(A) the current provisions regarding exculpation, advancement of expenses, and
indemnification of officers and directors contained in the articles of
incorporation, by-laws or other comparable organizational documents of the NBCU
Entities and (B) any indemnification agreements of the NBCU Entities with any of
their respective directors, officers and employees existing as of the date
hereof, and (b) indemnify the D O Indemnitees with respect to acts or
omissions occurring at or prior to Closing (including any matters arising in
connection with the transactions contemplated hereby), whether asserted or
charmed prior to, at or after the Closing, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable Law. 

101 

(b)           For
a period of three (3) years from and after the Closing Date, Newco shall
maintain a Side A Only Directors  and Officers  Liability Policy with a coverage
limit of $125 million in the aggregate covering acts or omissions occurring
prior to the Closing Date to the extent relating to the NBCU
Businesses. 

(c)           The
D O Indemnitees to whom this  Section 6.18 
applies shall be third party beneficiaries of this  Section 6.18 .  The provisions of this  Section 6.18  are intended to be for the benefit of
each D O Indemnitee and his or her heirs.  Following the Closing,
the obligations of Comcast and Newco under this  Section
6.18  shall not be terminated or modified in such a manner as to adversely
affect any D O Indemnitee to whom this  Section
6.18  applies without the consent of each such affected D O
Indemnitee. 

(d)           If
Newco or any of its successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into
any other Person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or
entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers or conveys all or
substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each
such case, proper provision shall be made so that the successors and assigns of
Newco, as the case may be, shall assume the obligations set forth in this  Section 6.18 . 

Section
6.19      .  Real
Property.    (a)   GE shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Newco, prior to Closing to the
extent in the possession of NBCU, copies of all licenses, certificates of
occupancy, plans, specifications and permits and other documents pertaining to
such NBCU Owned Real Property or any NBCU Leased Real Property listed on  Section 3.16(a)  of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter. 

(b)     Comcast
shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Newco, prior to
Closing, to the extent in the possession of Comcast, copies of all licenses,
certificates of occupancy, plans, specifications and permits and other documents
pertaining to such Comcast Owned Real Property or any Comcast Leased Real
Property listed on Section 5.17(a) of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter. 

(c)     NBCU
shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Newco, prior to
Closing, an estoppel certificate, in a form reasonably satisfactory to Comcast,
from each landlord or joint venture partner, as applicable, with respect to each
NBCU Leased Property listed on Section 6.19(c) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter,
dated the Closing Date, confirming that each such lease or sublease is in full
force and effect and enforceable, in all material respects, in accordance with
its respective terms, and that to the knowledge of each such landlord or joint
venture partner, as applicable, no default under each such lease or sublease has
occurred or is continuing.  For the purposes of this Section 6.19(c),
 commercially reasonable efforts  shall not include, and NBCU shall not

102 

be
required to make, any payment to any such landlord or joint venturer, or any
designee or representative of the same, in order to obtain any such
estoppels. 

(d)     Comcast
shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to Newco, prior to
Closing, an estoppel certificate, in a form reasonably satisfactory to NBCU,
from each landlord or joint venture partner, as applicable, with respect to each
Comcast Leased Property listed on Section 6.19(d) of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter, dated the Closing Date, confirming that each such lease or sublease is
in full force and effect and enforceable, in all material respects, in
accordance with its respective terms, and that to the knowledge of each such
landlord or joint venture partner, as applicable, no default under each such
lease or sublease has occurred or is continuing.  For the purposes of
this  Section 6.19(d) ,  commercially reasonable
efforts  shall not include, and Comcast shall not be required to make, any
payment to any such landlord or joint venturer, or any designee or
representative of the same, in order to obtain any such estoppels. 

(e)     On
or before closing, GE and NBCU will amend the lease with respect to the NBCU
Leased Real Property located at 900 and 904 Sylvan Avenue, Englewood Cliffs, New
Jersey such that NBCU s options to acquire fee ownership of such property
pursuant to the terms of the lease, and NBCU s right to renew such lease, will
not be dependent on Vivendi s continued ownership of any portion of
NBCU. 

(f)     GE
and Comcast shall use their good faith efforts to negotiate a lease to be
entered into by the relevant parties at or as soon as reasonably practicable
prior to Closing on the terms and conditions set forth in the term sheet
attached hereto as Exhibit H (the   30 Rock Term Sheet  ) and other
arm s length terms that are reasonably considered  market  for a lease of
comparable space for comparable buildings in New York City (the   30 Rock Lease  ). If GE and
Comcast are not able to agree on a form of lease prior to the Closing, then from
and after the Closing, the 30 Rock Term Sheet shall be binding upon the parties
identified therein in accordance with its terms. The 30 Rock Lease (or binding
30 Rock Term Sheet, if applicable) shall amend and restate in its entirety, the
existing agreements between NBC Trust No. 1996A and NBC under which NBCU
occupies approximately 1,300,000 square feet of space within the 30 Rockefeller
Center Condominium, as in effect on the date of this Agreement (the   Existing Lease  ). The 30 Rock
Lease (or binding 30 Rock Term Sheet, if applicable) shall be made effective
following the Transaction Closing (as defined in the Vivendi SPA) but prior to
Comcast s acquisition of any portion of Newco. Under no circumstances shall any
term or provision of the Existing Lease be effective or enforceable by any party
from and after Closing. 

Section
6.20      .  Related Party
Transactions.   (a) For so long as any Related Party NBCU
Contract set forth on  
 Section 6.20(a) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter (each such agreement,
together with any similar agreement  

103 

entered
into prior to the Closing, a   Factoring Agreement  ) is in
effect, Comcast shall have the option, exercisable by written notice delivered
to GE, to terminate the continued factoring of receivables under any portion or
all of any Factoring Agreement effective not earlier than immediately following
the Closing.  Any notice of such termination must be delivered at least two
Business Days prior to the specified date of termination.  If Comcast
exercises such option with respect to any Factoring Agreement, then from and
following the effectiveness of such termination, no further receivables will be
factored pursuant to such Factoring Agreement, and all existing receivables and
applicable amounts will be settled on the terms and in accordance with the
procedures therefor set forth in the applicable Factoring Agreement (it being
understood that there are not and will not be any penalties or termination fees
payable in connection with any such termination).  Any receivable of
any NBCU Entity from GE in respect of any Factoring Agreement that exists as of
the time immediately prior to Closing shall be automatically extinguished in its
entirety (with no payment being made in respect thereof) effective upon the
Closing;  provided  that
such extinguishment shall not affect any rights or obligations under any
Factoring Agreement (including with respect to holdback payments or similar
payments (and receivables with respect thereto), all of which shall be made in
accordance with the terms of the applicable Factoring
Agreement).  None of GE or any of its Subsidiaries shall (i) exercise
any right of termination, amendment, acceleration or cancellation under any
Factoring Agreement resulting from the execution, delivery or performance of
this Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements or the consummation of the
transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or (ii) between the date hereof and
the Closing, enter into, renew, amend or modify, or otherwise waive, release or
assign any rights, claims or benefits of any NBCU Entity under, any Factoring
Agreement without the prior written consent of Comcast;  provided  that such consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed with respect to any modification
or renewal of any Factoring Agreement that will only be in effect for periods
prior to the Closing if (and only if) the economic terms of such Factoring
Agreement as so modified shall be (A) substantially the same as the terms that
were in effect prior to such modification or renewal (subject to such changes as
reflect overall changes in market conditions) and (B) not less favorable to the
Navy Businesses than could be obtained by the Navy Businesses from an unrelated
third party. 

(b)     Prior
to the Closing, except as otherwise provided in the Comcast Services Agreement,
Comcast shall, and shall to the extent necessary cause its Subsidiaries to,
cause all obligations arising under the Related Party Comcast Contracts (other
than those set forth on  Section 6.20(b)  of the
Comcast Disclosure Letter, which shall continue in accordance with their
respective terms) to be repaid or cancelled in a manner that does not give rise
to any Liability that would be an Assumed Comcast Liability or a Liability of a
Contributed Comcast Subsidiary. 

104 

(c)     Prior
to the Closing, except as otherwise provided in the GE Transition Services
Agreement, GE and NBCU shall, and shall to the extent necessary cause their
respective Subsidiaries to, cause all obligations under the Related Party NBCU
Contracts (other than those set forth on  Section
6.20(c)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter, which shall continue in accordance
with their respective terms, the Factoring Agreements, which shall be governed
by  Section 6.20(a) , and the TPS Program, which
shall be governed by  Section 6.20(d) ) to be repaid
or cancelled in a manner that does not give rise to any Liability that would be
an Assumed NBCU Liability or a Liability of a NBCU Entity. 

(d)     GE
and NBCU shall, and shall to the extent necessary cause their respective
Subsidiaries to, terminate the participation of the NBCU Entities under GE s TPS
Program (the   TPS
Program  ) effective as of the Closing;  provided  that such
termination shall not affect any rights or obligations of the parties under the
TPS Program with respect to any amounts payable thereunder, all of which shall
be made in a manner consistent with past practice. 

Section
6.21      .  Post-Closing
Services.   As soon as practicable following the date hereof,
GE, NBCU and Comcast will work together in good faith to complete the schedules
to the GE Transition Services Agreement and the Comcast Services Agreement
setting forth the applicable services to be provided under each such agreement
(it being understood that such schedules shall be completed prior to the
Closing).  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, GE
shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to provide to Comcast its initial
draft of such schedules to the GE Transition Services Agreement no later than
March 31, 2010 and the parties shall promptly thereafter make available and
cause the necessary personnel to work together in good faith.  In
order to complete such schedules with respect to services to be provided to
Newco, the parties will determine the services that have been provided to the
NBCU Businesses and the Contributed Comcast Businesses prior to the Closing, it
being understood that, except as provided below and subject to the selection
process described below, (a) GE will make available to Newco the full range
of services provided by GE to the NBCU Businesses as of the Closing for a period
of four years from the Closing Date (but subject to the termination provisions
set forth in the GE Transition Services Agreement) (the   Transition Services Term  ),
and (b) Comcast will make available to Newco the full range of services
provided by Comcast to the Contributed Comcast Businesses as of the Closing for
an indefinite period (but subject to the termination provisions set forth in the
Comcast Services Agreement);  provided  that neither GE nor
(except with respect to clause (i) or (iii) below) Comcast shall be obligated to
provide services (i) that historically have not been generally provided under
transition services agreements to former businesses that were divested by GE,
(ii) that are not appropriate to be provided, in the reasonable judgment of the
party that would be the provider, due to constraints under Law, (iii) that, in
accordance with internal policies, procedures or practices of GE in effect prior
to the date hereof, GE does not  

105 

provide
to an entity in which GE holds a minority equity interest, or (iv) that are
provided through a third party provider and the relevant Contract with the third
party does not permit such service to be provided to Newco.  Section
6.21 of the NBCU Disclosure Letter sets forth an illustrative list of services
that GE is not obligated to provide to Newco after the Closing by virtue of the
limitations set forth in clauses (i)-(iii).  GE shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts to limit, to the extent practicable, adding
services which it will not provide Newco by virtue of such limitations, to those
already identified in Section 6.21 of the NBCU Disclosure Letter, and, with
respect to each such additional service (if any), GE shall consider in good
faith any proposals made by Comcast pursuant to which GE would provide such
additional service on a temporary basis to the extent necessary to avoid
significant disruption to Newco s businesses.  Comcast shall use its
commercially reasonable efforts to limit, to the extent practicable, the
services which it will not provide Newco by virtue of the limitations set forth
in clause (ii), and, with respect to each such service, Comcast shall consider
in good faith any proposals made by GE pursuant to which Comcast would provide
such service on a temporary basis to the extent necessary to avoid significant
disruption to Newco s businesses.  The parties will determine in good
faith which Person (which may be Newco itself, GE, Comcast or an unrelated third
party) will be able to provide Newco with each applicable service most
efficiently (taking into account cost, service levels and other relevant
factors) following the Closing;  provided  that if the parties
are unable to agree as to any particular service, such determination will be
made in the good faith judgment of Comcast. 

Section
6.22     .   Relevant
Transactions .  (a) If after the date hereof and prior to
Closing, Comcast desires to, or desires to cause any of its Subsidiaries to,
acquire or invest in a business, whether by merger, consolidation, combination
or amalgamation, acquisition of equity interest or assets or otherwise, in each
case, that if acquired would be primarily related to the Contributed Comcast
Businesses, Comcast shall deliver a notice to GE containing the material terms
of such transaction, including reasonable detail as to the financial and
operational implications of the transaction for Newco, the equity interest,
business or assets to be acquired, and the consideration proposed to be paid
(including any Relevant Transaction Debt) in connection with such
transaction.  GE may, within fifteen (15) Business Days after receipt
of such notice, object to such acquisition by delivering a notice of
objection. 

(b)     If
a notice of objection with respect to any such transaction is delivered pursuant
to  Section 6.22(a)  within such fifteen (15)
Business Day period, Comcast or one or more of its Subsidiaries shall be
permitted, subject to receipt of any consent required pursuant to  Section 6.01(b)(ii) , to enter into and consummate such
transaction on the terms set forth in the notice delivered by Comcast pursuant
to  Section 6.22(a) ;  provided  that the equity
interest, business or assets acquired pursuant to such transaction shall be
deemed Comcast Excluded  

106 

Assets
and the Liabilities relating thereto shall be deemed Excluded Comcast
Liabilities. 

(c)     If
a notice of objection with respect to any such transaction is not delivered
pursuant to  Section 6.22(a)  within such fifteen
(15) Business Day period, (i) Comcast or more of its Subsidiaries shall be
permitted to enter into and consummate such transaction (a   Relevant Transaction  ) on
terms that are equivalent in all material respects to those which are set forth
in the notice delivered by Comcast pursuant to  Section
6.22(a)  and (ii) the equity interest, business or assets acquired pursuant
to such transaction shall be deemed Comcast Assets or Excluded Comcast Assets
and the Liabilities relating thereto shall be deemed Assumed Comcast Liabilities
or Excluded Comcast Liabilities to the extent provided in  Section 2.03  (as if such equity interest, business or
assets were owned by Comcast and such Liabilities were Liabilities of
Comcast).  Each transaction set forth on  Section 6.22  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter shall be
a Relevant Transaction if it is consummated on terms that are equivalent in all
material respects to those which are set forth in the summaries previously
provided to GE in writing prior to the date hereof with respect to such
transaction. 

Section
6.23      .  Organizational
Documents.   Between the date hereof and the Closing Date, GE,
NBCU and Comcast shall negotiate in good faith mutually agreeable forms of an
amended and restated certificate of incorporation of Navy Holdco 2, amended and
restated bylaws of Navy Holdco 2 and a limited liability company agreement of
NBCU (the   Organizational
Documents  ).  The Organizational Documents shall be in form and
substance customary for organizational documents of wholly-owned Subsidiaries
and, in the case of NBCU, shall be consistent with  Section 6.18 .  GE shall cause the
Organizational Documents of NBCU to be in full force and effect as of the
Closing and the Organizational Documents of Navy Holdco 2 to be in full force
and effect as of the effective date of the Navy Holdco 2 Agreement. 

Section
6.24      .  Advertising.   During
the five (5) calendar years commencing at the beginning of the first calendar
year following Closing, GE shall, directly or indirectly through one or more of
its Subsidiaries, purchase advertising from Newco or one or more of its
Subsidiaries such that, in each such year, GE will purchase no less than $59
million of gross advertising, in the aggregate, from Newco and its Subsidiaries,
and GE will purchase an additional $50 million of gross advertising in
connection with the 2012 Olympic Games.  During the remainder of the
calendar year in which the Closing occurs, GE shall, directly or indirectly
through one or more of its Subsidiaries, purchase advertising from Newco or one
or more of its Subsidiaries in an amount and in a manner consistent with its
advertising plan for such calendar year or, in the absence of such a plan, in
the ordinary course of business in an amount and in a manner consistent with
such period in the prior calendar year.  Purchases of advertising by
GE and its Subsidiaries pursuant to this  Section
6.24  shall be effected on arms- 

107 

length
terms;  provided  that GE
and its Subsidiaries shall be entitled to preferential client treatment,
including access to marketing execution and placements, comparable to the top
tier or highest spender category of advertising or past practice, whichever is
more favorable to GE. 

Section
6.25      .  Contributed Comcast
Business 2008 EBITDA.   Prior to the Closing Date, Comcast shall
cause Deloitte   Touche LLP to (a) conduct an audit of the 2008 Comcast
Financial Statements and (b) perform certain agreed upon procedures, as agreed
to by Comcast and Deloitte   Touche LLP after reasonable consultation with
GE (it being understood that GE shall have the right to consult with Comcast in
the development of such procedures), relating to a schedule derived from such
audit that sets forth the operating cash flow of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2008 (the   2008 Contributed Comcast Businesses
EBITDA  ), calculated on the same basis as the 2008 operating cash flow of
the Contributed Comcast Businesses that was included in the long range forecast
for the Contributed Comcast Businesses provided by Comcast to GE in writing
prior to the date hereof (including adjustments for (i) allocations of corporate
and other non-recurring costs (including stay bonuses associated with Fandango)
and (ii) the exclusion of The Comcast Network).  Comcast shall deliver
a copy of such audit report together with an unqualified opinion of Deloitte
  Touche LLP thereon and agreed upon procedures report to GE promptly
following the completion of such reports.  GE and its advisors will
have thirty (30) days to review the calculation of 2008 Contributed Comcast
Businesses EBITDA, during which 30-day period Comcast shall provide adequate
access to management and Comcast internal workpapers to assess the basis for the
calculation.  To the extent there is any dispute, GE will document and
provide to Comcast the nature of such dispute.  GE and Comcast will
have fifteen (15) days from the date of delivery of the dispute notice to
negotiate and resolve such differences.  If no resolution is reached,
senior executives of GE and Comcast will discuss a resolution of such dispute in
good faith.  If they are not able to reach a resolution, Deloitte
  Touche LLP s determination shall control. 

Section
6.26      .  Certain Other
Agreements.   Comcast and GE hereby agree to the covenants set
forth in (a) Section 6.26(a) of the Comcast Disclosure Letter, (b) Section
6.26(b) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter and (c) Section 6.26(c) of the NBCU
Disclosure Letter. 

Section
6.27      .  Newco.   (a)
Comcast and GE shall agree prior to the Closing on the initial chief executive
officer of Newco. 

(b)     Between
the date hereof and the Closing Date, GE and Comcast shall cooperate in good
faith to further develop the initial post-Closing strategic plan for Newco
attached as Exhibit B to the Form of Newco Operating Agreement attached hereto
as Exhibit I (the   Preliminary
Initial Strategic   

108 

Plan  ).  If the
parties are unable to mutually agree on such further developed strategic plan
(it being the mutual intention of GE and Comcast to work towards such further
development within a reasonable time period prior to the anticipated Closing
Date), each of Comcast and GE shall cause their respective chief executive
officers to use their respective good faith efforts to resolve such disagreement
for a period of five Business Days after GE or Comcast advises the other in
writing that an impasse has been reached with respect to such further developed
plan;  provided,
however,  that, if the parties have not mutually agreed upon such
strategic plan by the Closing Date, the initial post-Closing strategic plan for
Newco (which, for the avoidance of doubt, may be the Preliminary Initial
Strategic Plan) shall be as determined by Comcast.  To the extent (i)
GE and Comcast agree on a further developed initial post-closing strategic plan
or (ii) Comcast designates an initial post-closing strategic plan that is
different from the Preliminary Initial Strategic Plan, Exhibit B to the Form of
Newco Operating Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit I shall be deemed replaced
with the initial post-closing strategic plan so agreed upon or designated, as
the case may be. 

Section
6.28      .  Certain
Investments.   To the extent that investment securities of any
Person that are subject to a stockholders, investment, operating or other
similar agreement pursuant to which rights and obligations arising thereunder
are jointly held or exercisable or are derived from common ownership are
included in both the NBCU Assets and the Excluded NBCU Assets (including the
investment securities of the Persons listed on  Section
6.28  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter), the parties hereto shall (a) determine
an equitable allocation of the non-economic rights and obligations arising under
such agreements as between Newco and its Subsidiaries, on the one hand, and GE
and its Subsidiaries, on the other hand (which allocation shall take into
account the relative ownership of such investment securities and the
relationship of Newco and its Subsidiaries with such Person after giving effect
to the Closing) and (b) use their commercially reasonable efforts to cause such
allocation to be implemented as of the Closing or as soon thereafter as possible
(including executing any necessary assignment and assumption documents and
obtaining any necessary consent of any third party). 

Section
6.29      .  Certain
Obligations.   GE shall cause each of Navy Holdco 1 and Navy
Holdco 2, and through the Closing, Newco, to take all actions required to be
taken, and to refrain from taking any actions not permitted to be taken, by them
pursuant to this Agreement. 

Section
6.30      .  Vivendi
Agreements.   GE shall not, and shall not permit any of its
Subsidiaries (including the NBCU Entities) to, without the prior written consent
of Comcast, (i) enter into any Vivendi Agreement or (ii) enter into any
amendments or modifications to, or grant or rely upon any waivers under, any
Vivendi Agreement (regardless of whether such Vivendi Agreement was entered into
prior to, on or after the date of this Agreement) that would reasonably be

109 

expected
to have the effect of delaying, impairing or impeding the Closing.  In
addition, GE shall, and shall cause each of its applicable Subsidiaries
(including NBCU Entities) to, comply with its obligations under each Vivendi
Agreement and use its reasonable best efforts to consummate the transactions
contemplated by the Vivendi SPA in accordance with the terms
thereof. 

ARTICLE
7   Employee
Matters 

Section
7.01      .  Employee
Matters.   With respect to employee matters, the parties have
made the representations, warranties and agreements and covenants set forth in
Exhibit B-1 (the   NBCU Employee
Matters Agreement  ) and Exhibit B-2 (the   Comcast Employee Matters
Agreement  ), each of which is hereby incorporated in, and made a part of,
this Agreement as if set forth in full herein. 

Section
7.02      .  Newco Executive
Incentive Compensation Summary of Principles.   The parties
acknowledge the Newco Executive Incentive Compensation Summary of Principles,
attached hereto as Exhibit J. 

ARTICLE
8    Tax
Matters 

Section
8.01      .  Tax Matters
Agreement.   Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, all indemnifications, representations, warranties, covenants and
agreements among the parties with respect to Tax matters are covered exclusively
by the Tax Matters Agreement and the Newco Operating Agreement and nothing
contained herein shall give rise to any claim in respect of Taxes.  In
the event of any conflict with respect to Tax matters between the provisions of
this Agreement, on the one hand, and the provisions of the Tax Matters Agreement
or the Newco Operating Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of the Tax
Matters Agreement or the Newco Operating Agreement shall control. 

ARTICLE
9   Conditions
to Closing 

Section
9.01      .  Conditions to
Obligations of GE and NBCU.   The obligations of GE and NBCU to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to
the fulfillment, or waiver by GE in its sole discretion, at or prior to the
Closing, of each of the following conditions: 

110 

(a)     Representations
and Warranties.  The representations and warranties of Comcast set
forth in this Agreement or the Tax Matters Agreement shall be true and correct,
without giving effect to any limitation as to  materiality  or  Material Adverse
Effect  or similar qualification set forth therein (other than in the phrase
 materially impair or delay  or in the Designated Comcast Representations) in
each case as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date (except to
the extent that any such representation or warranty expressly speaks as of an
earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and
correct as of such earlier date);  provided  that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, the condition set forth in this  Section 9.01(a)  shall be deemed to have been satisfied
even if any representations or warranties of Comcast (other than those contained
in Section 5.01(b) and  Section 5.03 , which must be
true and correct in all material respects) are not so true and correct unless
the failure of such representations and warranties of Comcast to be so true and
correct, individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be
expected to have a Comcast Material Adverse Effect, or a Material Adverse Effect
on Newco, or a material adverse effect on the ability of Comcast or Newco to
consummate the transactions contemplated by the Transaction
Agreements.  GE and NBCU shall have received a certificate signed by
an executive officer of Comcast to the effect that the condition set forth in
this  Section 9.01(a)  has been
satisfied. 

(b)     Covenants.  Comcast
shall, and shall have caused its Subsidiaries to, have performed and complied in
all material respects with the obligations and covenants applicable to Comcast
or its Subsidiaries, in each case, to be performed and complied with by Comcast
or its Subsidiaries at or prior to the Closing in accordance with this Agreement
and the Tax Matters Agreement, and GE and NBCU shall have received a certificate
signed by an executive officer of Comcast to such effect. 

(c)     No
Governmental Orders.  At the Closing Date, there shall be no
Governmental Orders in effect, and there shall be no action, investigation,
proceeding or litigation instituted, commenced, pending or threatened by or
before any Governmental Authority in which a Governmental Authority is a party,
(i) that restrains or prohibits or renders illegal the Closing, (ii) that
restrains or prohibits or renders illegal the consummation of the other
transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, other than the failure
of which to be so consummated would not reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Material Impact on the current or future
business operations of GE or Newco or (iii) that would otherwise reasonably be
expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Impact on the
current or future business operations of GE or Newco. 

(d)     Governmental
Approvals.  The FCC Order and all other Governmental Approvals
required by applicable Law to consummate the  

111 

transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, including those set forth in  Section 9.01(d)  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter to the
extent required by applicable Law to consummate the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, shall have been obtained and shall be in full force and effect
without any condition or requirement that would reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Material Impact on the current or future
business operations of GE or Newco, and any applicable waiting periods in
respect thereof shall have expired or been terminated. 

(e)     Ancillary
Agreements.  The Ancillary Agreements shall have been duly executed
and delivered by each of the parties thereto. 

(f)     NBCU
Financing and NBCU Dividend.  All conditions to the obligations of the
lenders thereunder to fund the NBCU Financing or Alternative Financing shall
have been fulfilled or waived and the lenders thereunder shall be prepared to
fund the NBCU Dividend in full. 

(g)     Comcast
Restructuring.  The actions contemplated by  Section 6.14  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter shall
have been completed, in all material respects, on the terms and conditions set
forth therein. 

(h)     Vivendi
Agreements.  The Transaction Closing (as defined in the Vivendi SPA)
shall have been consummated pursuant to the Vivendi SPA. 

Section
9.02      .  Conditions to
Obligations of Comcast.   The obligation of Comcast to
consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to
the fulfillment, or waiver by Comcast in its sole discretion, at or prior to the
Closing, of each of the following conditions: 

(a)     Representations
and Warranties.  The representations and warranties of GE and NBCU set
forth in this Agreement or the Tax Matters Agreement shall be true and correct,
without giving effect to any limitation as to  materiality  or  Material Adverse
Effect  or similar qualification set forth therein (other than in the phrase
 materially impair or delay  or in the Designated NBCU Representations) in each
case as of the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date (except to the
extent that any such representation or warranty expressly speaks as of an
earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty shall be true and
correct as of such earlier date);  provided ,  however , that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, the condition set forth in this  Section 9.02(a)  shall be deemed to have been satisfied
even if any representations or warranties of GE and NBCU (other than those
contained in  Section 3.01(b) ,  Section 3.03 ,   Section
4.01(b)  ,   Section
4.01(d)   and   Section
4.01(e)  ) are not so true and correct unless the failure of such
representations and warranties of GE and NBCU to be so true and correct,
individually or in the aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to
have a NBCU Material  

112 

Adverse
Effect, a Material Adverse Effect on Newco or a material adverse effect on the
ability of GE, NBCU or Newco to consummate the transactions contemplated by the
Transaction Agreements.  Comcast shall have received certificates
signed by an executive officer of each of GE and NBCU to the effect that the
condition set forth in this  Section 9.02(a)  has
been satisfied with respect to each of GE, NBCU and Newco. 

(b)     Covenants.  GE
and NBCU shall, and shall have caused their respective Subsidiaries to, have
performed and complied in all material respects with the other obligations and
covenants applicable to GE and the NBCU Entities to be performed and complied
with by GE and the NBCU Entities at or prior to the Closing in accordance with
this Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement, and Comcast shall have received
certificates signed by an executive officer of each of GE and NBCU to such
effect. 

(c)     No
Governmental Orders.  At the Closing Date, there shall be no
Governmental Order in effect, and there shall be no action, investigation,
proceeding or litigation instituted, commenced, pending or threatened by or
before any Governmental Authority in which a Governmental Authority is a party,
(i) that restrains or prohibits or renders illegal the Closing, (ii) that
restrains or prohibits or renders illegal the consummation of the other
transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, other than the failure
of which to be so consummated would not reasonably be expected to have,
individually or in the aggregate, a Material Impact on the current or future
business operations of Comcast or Newco or (iii) that would otherwise reasonably
be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Impact on the
current or future business operations of Comcast or Newco. 

(d)     Governmental
Approvals.  The FCC Order and all other Governmental Approvals
required by applicable Law to consummate the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, including those set forth in  Section
9.02(d)  of the Comcast Disclosure Letter to the extent required by
applicable Law to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
shall have been obtained and shall be in full force and effect without any
condition or requirement that would reasonably be expected to have, individually
or in the aggregate, a Material Impact on the current or future business
operations of Comcast or Newco, and any applicable waiting periods in respect
thereof shall have expired or been terminated. 

(e)     Ancillary
Agreements.  The Ancillary Agreements shall have been duly executed
and delivered by each of the parties thereto. 

(f)     NBCU
Restructuring.  The actions contemplated by  Section 6.14  of the NBCU Disclosure Letter shall have
been completed, in all material respects, on the terms and conditions set forth
therein. 

113 

ARTICLE
10   Termination,
Amendment and Waiver 

Section
10.01      .  Termination.   This
Agreement may be terminated prior to the Closing: 

(a)     by
the mutual written consent of GE and Comcast; 

(b)     by
GE, if Comcast shall have breached any representation or warranty or failed to
comply with any covenant or agreement applicable to Comcast that would cause
either of the conditions set forth in  Section
9.01(a)  or  Section 9.01(b)  not to be satisfied,
and such condition would be incapable of being satisfied, by the End Date;  provided ,  however , that neither GE nor
NBCU is then in material breach of this Agreement; 

(c)     by
Comcast, if GE or NBCU shall have breached any representation or warranty or
failed to comply with any covenant or agreement applicable to GE or NBCU that
would cause either of the conditions set forth in  Section 9.02(a)  or  Section
9.02(b)  not to be satisfied, and such condition would be incapable of being
satisfied, by the End Date;  provided ,  however , that Comcast is not
then in material breach of this Agreement; 

(d)     by
either GE or Comcast if the Closing shall not have occurred by December 3, 2010
(the   End Date  ) which
term shall include the date of any extension under this  Section 10.01(d) ;  provided ,  however , that if on the End
Date the conditions to Closing set forth in  Section
9.01(c) ,  Section 9.01(d) ,  Section 9.02(c)  or  Section
9.02(d)  shall not have been fulfilled but all other conditions to Closing
shall have been fulfilled (other than those conditions that by their terms are
to be satisfied at Closing, which conditions (other than the condition set forth
in  Section 9.01(f) ) shall be capable of being
fulfilled if Closing were to occur on such date), then either GE or Comcast may
elect by written notice to the other parties to extend the End Date for up to
two (2) successive 90-day periods (it being understood that in no event may the
End Date be extended beyond June 3, 2011 without the mutual written consent of
GE and Comcast); and  provided   further  that the right to
terminate this Agreement under this  Section
10.01(d)  shall not be available to any party whose failure to take any
action required to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement shall have been
the cause of, or shall have resulted in, the failure of the Closing to occur
prior to such date; 

(e)     by
GE or Comcast, in the event of the issuance of a final, nonappealable
Governmental Order restraining or prohibiting the Closing; 

(f)     by
GE, on or after the 30th day after notice to Comcast that the conditions set
forth in  Section 9.01  and  Section 9.02  have been satisfied (other than those
conditions that by their terms are to be satisfied at the Closing) and the
Closing should have occurred in accordance with Section 2.06, if the Closing

114 

shall
not have occurred because Comcast shall have failed to comply with its
obligations to consummate the Closing; or 

(g)     by
Comcast, on or after the 30th day after notice to GE that the conditions set
forth in  Section 9.01  and  Section 9.02  have been satisfied (other than those
conditions that by their terms are to be satisfied at the Closing) and the
Closing should have occurred in accordance with Section 2.06, if the Closing
shall not have occurred because GE or NBCU shall have failed to comply with its
obligations to consummate the Closing; 

provided , that the party
asserting that a condition set forth in  Section
9.01  or  Section 9.02  has failed to be satisfied
shall bear the burden of proof of such failure. 

Section
10.02      .  Notice of
Termination.   Any party desiring to terminate this Agreement
pursuant to  Section 10.01  shall give written notice
of such termination to the other party or parties, as the case may be, to this
Agreement. 

Section
10.03      .  Effect of
Termination.   In the event of the termination of this Agreement
as provided in  Section 10.01 , this Agreement shall
forthwith become void and there shall be no liability on the part of any party
to this Agreement;  provided ,  however , that nothing in this
Agreement shall relieve the parties hereto from liability for (a) failure to
perform the obligations set forth in  Section 6.04 ,
(b) any knowing and intentional breach of this Agreement or knowing and
intentional failure to perform its obligations under this Agreement and (c)
amounts payable pursuant to  Section 6.13(c)  or  12.02  .  

Section
10.04      .  Extension;
Waiver.   At any time prior to the Closing, either GE may, with
respect to Comcast, or Comcast may, with respect to GE or NBCU, (a) extend the
time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other
Person, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties
contained in this Agreement or in any document delivered pursuant to this
Agreement or the Tax Matters Agreement, or (c) waive compliance with any of
the agreements or conditions contained in this Agreement or the Tax Matters
Agreement ( provided 
that such waiver of compliance with such agreements or conditions shall not
operate as a waiver of, or estoppel with respect to, any subsequent or other
failure).  Any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set
forth in an instrument in writing signed by the party granting such extension or
waiver.  Neither the waiver by any of the parties hereto of a breach
of or a default under any of the provisions of this Agreement or the Tax Matters
Agreement, nor the failure by any of the parties, on one or more occasions, to
enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement or the Tax Matters Agreement or
to exercise any right or privilege hereunder, shall be construed as a waiver of
any other breach or default of a similar nature, or as a waiver of any of such
provisions, rights or privileges hereunder or thereunder. 

115 

ARTICLE
11   Indemnification 

Section
11.01      .  Indemnification by
GE.   (a)  From and after the Closing, and subject to
 Section 11.04 ,  Section
11.08 ,  Section 11.09 ,  Section 11.10  and  Section
12.01 , GE shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Newco, its Subsidiaries,
their respective successors and assigns and their respective directors, officers
and employees (collectively, the   Newco Indemnified Parties  )
and Comcast, its Affiliates, their respective successors and assigns and their
respective directors, officers and employees (collectively, the   Comcast Indemnified Parties  )
against, and reimburse any Newco Indemnified Party or Comcast Indemnified Party
for, all Losses that such Newco Indemnified Party or Comcast Indemnified Party
may suffer or incur, or become subject to, as a result of: 

(i)     the
failure of any representations or warranties made by GE or NBCU in this
Agreement to be true and correct on and as of the date hereof or on and as of
the Closing Date as though made on the Closing Date (or with respect to
representations and warranties that are made as of a specific date, the failure
of such representations and warranties to be true and correct as of such date),
determined without regard to any qualification or exception contained therein
relating to  materiality , including the words  material  and  Material Adverse
Effect  (other than in the phrase  materially impair or delay  or in any such
qualification or exception contained in the Designated NBCU
Representations); 

(ii)     any
breach or failure by GE or, at or prior to the Closing, NBCU to perform any of
its covenants or obligations contained in this Agreement; or 

(iii)     any
Excluded NBCU Liability. 

For
the avoidance of doubt, it is understood that the foregoing indemnification with
respect to the Comcast Indemnified Parties is intended to indemnify the Comcast
Indemnified Parties only for Losses suffered or incurred by them directly and is
not intended to indemnify the Comcast Indemnified Parties with respect to Losses
suffered by Newco or that they may suffer or incur solely by virtue of their
direct or indirect equity ownership in a Newco Indemnified Party. 

(b)     Notwithstanding
any other provision to the contrary, (i) GE shall not be required to indemnify,
defend or hold harmless any Newco Indemnified Party or Comcast Indemnified Party
against, or reimburse any Newco Indemnified Party or Comcast Indemnified Party
for, any Losses pursuant to  Section 11.01(a)(i) ,
(A) with respect to any claim (except for a claim of the failure of the
representation and warranty set forth in  Section
3.21 ) unless such  

116 

claim
involves Losses in excess of $2,000,000 (nor shall such item be applied to or
considered for purposes of calculating the aggregate amount of the Newco
Indemnified Parties  or Comcast Indemnified Parties  Losses) and (B) until the
aggregate amount of the Newco Indemnified Parties  and Comcast Indemnified
Parties  Losses exceeds $600,000,000 (the   NBCU Deductible Amount  ),
after which GE shall only be obligated for such aggregate Losses (each of which
must satisfy the above subclause  (A)  to be applied
toward the NBCU Deductible Amount) of the Newco Indemnified Parties and the
Comcast Indemnified Parties in excess of the NBCU Deductible Amount; and (ii)
the cumulative indemnification obligation of GE under  Section 11.01(a)(i)  shall in no event exceed
$3,000,000,000.  Solely for purposes of the representations in the
first sentence of Section 3.15(g) and the first sentence of Section 3.15(i)
insofar as such representations relate to contributions to Multiemployer Plans
with respect to NBCU Employees, the amount paid, if any, to a Multiemployer Plan
in respect of or in settlement of each audit of contributions to such
Multiemployer Plan with respect to NBCU Employees shall be treated as a separate
 claim  for purposes of this  Section
11.01(b) . 

Section
11.02      .  Indemnification by
Comcast.   (a)  From and after the Closing, and
subject to  Section 11.04 ,  Section 11.08 ,  Section
11.09 ,  Section 11.10  and  Section 12.01 , Comcast shall indemnify, defend and
hold harmless GE and its Affiliates, their respective successors and assigns and
their respective directors, officers and employees (collectively, the   GE Indemnified Parties  ) and
the Newco Indemnified Parties against, and reimburse any GE Indemnified Party or
Newco Indemnified Party for, all Losses that such GE Indemnified Party or Newco
Indemnified Party may suffer or incur, or become subject to, as a result
of: 

(i)     the
failure of any representations or warranties made by Comcast in this Agreement
to be true and correct on and as of the date hereof or on and as of the Closing
Date as though made on the Closing Date (or with respect to representations and
warranties that are made as of a specific date, the failure of such
representations and warranties to be true and correct as of such date),
determined without regard to any qualification or exception contained therein
relating to  materiality , including the words  material  and  Material Adverse
Effect  (other than in the phrase  materially impair or delay  or in any such
qualification or exception contained in the Designated Comcast
Representations); 

(ii)     any
breach or failure by Comcast to perform any of its covenants or obligations
contained in this Agreement; or 

(iii)     any
Excluded Comcast Liability. 

For
the avoidance of doubt, it is understood that the foregoing indemnification with
respect to the GE Indemnified Parties is intended to  

117 

indemnify
the GE Indemnified Parties only for Losses suffered or incurred by them directly
and is not intended to indemnify the GE Indemnified Parties with respect to
Losses suffered by Newco or that they may suffer or incur solely by virtue of
their direct or indirect equity ownership in a Newco Indemnified
Party. 

(b)     Notwithstanding
any other provision to the contrary, (i) Comcast shall not be required to
indemnify, defend or hold harmless any Newco Indemnified Party or GE Indemnified
Party against, or reimburse any Newco Indemnified Party or GE Indemnified Party
for, any Losses pursuant to  Section 11.02(a)(i) ,
(A) with respect to any claim (except for a claim of the failure of the
representation and warranty set forth in  Section
5.23 ) unless such claim involves Losses in excess of $500,000 (nor shall
such item be applied to or considered for purposes of calculating the aggregate
amount of the Newco Indemnified Parties  or Comcast Indemnified Parties  Losses)
and (B) until the aggregate amount of the Newco Indemnified Parties  Losses
exceeds $145,000,000 (the   Comcast Deductible Amount  ),
after which Comcast shall only be obligated for such aggregate Losses (each of
which must satisfy the above subclause  (A)  to be
applied toward the Comcast Deductible Amount) of the Newco Indemnified Parties
and the Comcast Indemnified Parties in excess of the Comcast Deductible Amount;
and (ii) the cumulative indemnification obligation of Comcast under  Section 11.02(a)(i) ) shall in no event exceed
$725,000,000.  Solely for purposes of the representations in the first
sentence of  Section 5.16(g)  and the first sentence
of  Section 5.16(i)  insofar as such representations
relate to contributions to Multiemployer Plans with respect to Comcast
Contributed Business Employees, the amount paid, if any, to a Multiemployer Plan
in respect of or in settlement of each audit of contributions to such
Multiemployer Plan with respect to Comcast Contributed Business Employees shall
be treated as a separate  claim  for purposes of this  Section 11.02(b) . 

Section
11.03      .  Indemnification by
Newco.   Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, from and after the Closing, and subject to  Section 11.04 ,  Section
11.08  and  Section 11.09 , Newco shall indemnify,
defend and hold harmless: 

(a)     the
GE Indemnified Parties against any Losses that any GE Indemnified Party may
suffer, incur, or become subject to as result of (i) any claim or cause of
action by any Person arising before, on or after the Closing Date against any GE
Indemnified Party with respect to the NBCU Entities, the ownership, operation or
use of the NBCU Assets or the operations of the NBCU Businesses (including all
actions of the NBCU Entities and Newco s actions with respect to the NBCU
Entities or the ownership, operation or use of the NBCU Assets subsequent to the
Closing), other than any such claim or cause of action which would constitute an
Excluded NBCU Liability for which GE would otherwise be required to indemnify
Newco Indemnified Parties or Comcast  

118 

Indemnified
Parties pursuant to  Section 11.01(a)  (after giving
effect to the provisions of  Section 11.01(b) ); or
(ii) any Assumed NBCU Liability; and 

(b)     the
Comcast Indemnified Parties against any Losses that any Comcast Indemnified
Party may suffer, incur, or become subject to as result of (i) any claim or
cause of action by any Person arising before, on or after the Closing Date
against any Comcast Indemnified Party with respect to the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries, the ownership, operation or use of the Comcast Assets or the
operations of the Contributed Comcast Businesses (including all actions of the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries and Newco s actions with respect to the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or the ownership, operation or use of the
Comcast Assets subsequent to the Closing), other than any such claim or cause of
action which would constitute an Excluded Comcast Liability or for which Comcast
would otherwise be required to indemnify Newco Indemnified Parties or GE
Indemnified Parties pursuant to  Section 11.02(a) 
(after giving effect to the provisions of  Section
11.02(b) ); or (ii) any Assumed Comcast Liability. 

Section
11.04      .  Notification of
Claims.   (a)  Except as otherwise provided in any
Ancillary Agreement, a Person that may be entitled to be indemnified under any
of the Transaction Agreements, other than the Tax Matters Agreement (the   Indemnified Party  ), shall
promptly notify the party or parties liable for such indemnification (the   Indemnifying Party  ) in
writing of any assertion of any pending or threatened claim, demand or
proceeding that the Indemnified Party has determined has given or would
reasonably be expected to give rise to a right of indemnification under this
Agreement (including a pending or threatened claim, demand or proceeding
asserted by a third party against the Indemnified Party, such claim being a
  Third Party Claim  ),
describing in reasonable detail the relevant facts and circumstances;  provided ,  however , that the failure to
provide timely notice shall not release the Indemnifying Party from any of its
obligations under this  Article 11  except to the
extent the Indemnifying Party is actually prejudiced by such failure, it being
understood that notices for claims in respect of a breach of a representation,
warranty, covenant or agreement must be delivered prior to the expiration of any
applicable survival period specified in  Section
12.01  for such representation, warranty, covenant or agreement. 

(b)     Upon
receipt of a notice of a claim for indemnity from an Indemnified Party pursuant
to  Section 11.04(a)  with respect to any Third Party
Claim, the Indemnifying Party may assume the defense and control of such Third
Party Claim.  In the event that the Indemnifying Party shall assume
the defense of such claim, it shall allow the Indemnified Party a reasonable
opportunity to participate in the defense of such Third Party Claim with its own
counsel and at its own expense;  provided , that (i) if the
Indemnified Party reasonably concludes that the Indemnifying Party and the
Indemnified Party have a conflict of interest or different defenses available
with respect to such Third Party Claim or (ii) the Indemnifying Party has not in
fact employed counsel to assume control of such  

119 

defense,
the reasonable fees and expenses of one counsel (in addition to local counsel)
to the Indemnified Parties shall be considered  Losses  for purposes of this
Agreement.  The party that shall control the defense of any such Third
Party Claim (the   Controlling
Party  ) shall select counsel, contractors and consultants of recognized
standing and competence.  GE and Comcast, as the case may be, shall,
and shall cause each of their respective Affiliates and Representatives to,
cooperate fully with the Controlling Party in the defense of any Third Party
Claim, including with respect to the assertion of any claim or defense that was
a Contributed NBCU Asset or Contributed Comcast Asset, as
applicable.  If the Indemnifying Party does not so assume control of
such defense, the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to control such
defense.  The Controlling Party shall keep the other party advised of
the status of such Third Party Claim and the defense thereof.  If the
Indemnifying Party shall assume the control of the defense of any Third Party
Claim in accordance with this  Section 11.04(b) , the
Indemnifying Party shall obtain the prior written consent of the Indemnified
Party before entering into any settlement of, or consenting to the entry of any
judgment arising from, such Third Party Claims unless (x) the Indemnifying Party
shall (i) pay or cause to be paid all amounts arising out of such settlement or
judgment concurrently with the effectiveness of such settlement (subject to  Section 11.01(b)  and  Section
11.02(b) ), if applicable), (ii) not encumber any of the assets of any
Indemnified Party or agree to any restriction or condition that would apply to
or materially adversely affect any Indemnified Party or the conduct of any
Indemnified Party s business and (iii) obtain, as a condition of any settlement
or other resolution, a complete release of any Indemnified Party potentially
affected by such Third Party Claim and (y) such settlement or consent shall not
include an admission of wrongdoing on the part of any Indemnified
Party. 

Section
11.05      .  Exclusive
Remedies.   Except with respect to the matters covered by  Section 2.10  and other than with respect to any
injunctive remedies or in the case of intentional fraud, the parties hereto
acknowledge and agree that, following the Closing, the indemnification
provisions of  Section 6.07 ,  Section 11.01 ,  Section
11.02 , and  Section 11.03  shall be the sole and
exclusive remedies of any Indemnified Parties, respectively, for any Losses
(including any Losses from claims for breach of contract, warranty, tortious
conduct (including negligence) or otherwise and whether predicated on common
law, statute, strict liability, or otherwise) that it may at any time suffer or
incur, or become subject to, as a result of, or in connection with, any breach
of any representation or warranty in this Agreement by GE, NBCU or Comcast,
respectively, or any failure by GE, NBCU or Comcast, respectively, to perform or
comply with any covenant or agreement set forth herein.  Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the parties hereto hereby irrevocably
waive any right of rescission they may otherwise have or to which they may
become entitled. 

Section
11.06      .  Additional
Indemnification Provisions.    (a) With respect to
each indemnification obligation contained in any Transaction Agreement or

120 

any
other document executed in connection with the Closing (i) all Losses shall be
net of any third-party insurance proceeds that have been actually recovered by
the Indemnified Party in connection with the facts giving rise to the right of
indemnification, (ii) GE shall have no liability to indemnify any Comcast
Indemnified Party or Newco Indemnified Party with respect to any Losses caused
by or resulting from any pre-Closing action that GE or NBCU takes, pursuant to
 Section
6.01(a) , with the specific consent of Comcast, and (iii) Comcast shall
have no liability to indemnify any Newco Indemnified Party with respect to any
Losses caused by or resulting from any pre-Closing action that Comcast takes,
pursuant to  Section 6.01(b) , with the specific
consent of GE. 

(b)           If
an Indemnifying Party makes any payment for any Losses suffered or incurred by
an Indemnified Party pursuant to the provisions of this Article 11, such
Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated, to the extent of such payment, to all
rights and remedies of the Indemnified Party to any insurance benefits or other
claims of the Indemnified Party with respect to such Losses and with respect to
the claim giving rise to such Losses. 

(c)           For
the avoidance of doubt, Losses covered by  Section
11.01 ,  Section 11.02  or  Section 11.03  may include Losses incurred in
connection with a Third Party Claim or otherwise and Losses that arise as a
result of the negligence, strict liability or any other liability under any
theory of law or equity of, or violation of any Law by, the Person indemnified
thereunder. 

Section
11.07      .  Newco
Claims.   If GE becomes aware of any Losses for which Newco may
be entitled to seek indemnification from Comcast under this Agreement,
(a) GE shall notify Newco and (b) if Newco does not promptly seek such
indemnification, GE shall be entitled to seek such indemnification on behalf of
Newco and may exercise or cause to be exercised all of the rights of Newco with
respect to such Losses as if GE were the Indemnified Party with respect to such
Losses;  provided  that
any amounts recovered from Comcast with respect to such Losses shall be paid to
Newco.  If Comcast becomes aware of any Losses for which Newco may be
entitled to seek indemnification from GE under this Agreement, (a) Comcast
shall notify Newco and (b) if Newco does not promptly seek such indemnification,
Comcast shall be entitled to seek such indemnification on behalf of Newco and
may exercise or cause to be exercised all of the rights of Newco with respect to
such Losses as if Comcast were the Indemnified Party with respect to such
Losses;  provided  that
any amounts recovered from GE with respect to such Losses shall be paid to
Newco. 

Section
11.08      .  Mitigation.   Each
Indemnified Party shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate any
Loss for which such Indemnified Party seeks indemnification under this
Agreement. 

121 

Section
11.09      .  Third Party
Remedies.   If any Indemnified Party (or any of their respective
Affiliates) is at any time entitled (whether by reason of a contractual right, a
right to take or bring a legal action, availability of insurance, or a right to
require a payment discount or otherwise) to recover from another Person any
amount in respect of any matter giving rise to a Loss (whether before or after
the Indemnifying Party has made a payment to an Indemnified Party hereunder and
in respect thereof), the Indemnified Party shall, and shall cause its applicable
Affiliate (including, in the case of Comcast, Newco and any Contributed Business
Subsidiary) to use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to, (a)
promptly notify the Indemnifying Party and provide such information as the
Indemnifying Party may require relating to such right of recovery and the steps
taken or to be taken by the Indemnified Party in connection therewith and (b)
keep the Indemnifying Party reasonably informed of the progress of any action
taken in respect thereof;  provided  that for the
avoidance of doubt, the actions required pursuant to clauses  (a)  and  (b)  shall not be
preconditions to recovery by any Indemnified Party from an Indemnifying Party
pursuant to this Agreement.  Thereafter, any claim against such
Indemnifying Party shall be limited (in addition to the limitations on the
liability of the Indemnifying Party referred to in this Agreement) to the amount
by which the Losses suffered by the Indemnified Party exceed the amounts so
recovered by the Indemnified Party or any such Contributed Business Subsidiary
or Affiliate (or, in the case of Comcast, Newco or any such Contributed Business
Subsidiary).  If the Indemnified Parties recover any amounts in
respect of Losses from any third party with respect to a matter as to which the
Indemnified Parties have recovered all of their Losses (whether pursuant to this
 Article 11 , from third parties or a combination of
the foregoing) at any time after the Indemnifying Party has paid all or a
portion of such Losses to the Indemnified Party pursuant to this provisions of
this  Article 11 , Comcast or GE, as applicable,
shall, or shall cause such Indemnified Parties to promptly (and in any event
within ten (10) Business Days of receipt) pay over to the Indemnifying Party the
amount so received (to the extent previously paid by the Indemnifying
Party). 

Section
11.10      .  Limitation on
Liability.   In no event shall any party have any liability to
the other (including under this  Article 11 ) for any
consequential, special, incidental, indirect or punitive damages or similar
items (or to the extent the same would constitute consequential or like damages,
lost profits) other than any such damages actually awarded to a third party in
connection with a Third Party Claim;  provided  that such
limitations shall not limit the right of (a) Comcast, on the one hand, or (b) GE
or NBCU, on the other hand, to recover contract damages in connection with the
failure of GE or NBCU (with respect to Comcast s right) or Comcast (with respect
to GE s or NBCU s right), to close in violation of this Agreement. 

122 

ARTICLE
12   General
Provisions 

Section
12.01      .  Survival.   The
representations and warranties of GE, NBCU and Comcast contained in or made
pursuant to this Agreement or in any certificate furnished pursuant to this
Agreement shall survive in full force and effect until the date that is eighteen
(18) months after the Closing Date, at which time they shall terminate (and no
claims shall be made for indemnification in respect of breaches of such
representations and warranties under  Section
11.01(a)(i)  or  Section 11.02(b)(i)  unless
notice of such claim is given to the Indemnifying Party prior to the termination
of the applicable survival period);  provided ,  however , that (a) the
representations and warranties made in  Section 5.07 
shall not survive the Closing, (b) the representations and warranties made in  Section 3.13  and  Section
5.14  shall survive the Closing until the date that is three (3) years after
the Closing Date at which time they shall terminate, (c) the
representations and warranties made in  Section 3.15 
and  Section 5.16  shall survive until the expiration
of the statute of limitations applicable to the matters covered thereby at which
time they shall terminate and (d) the representations and warranties made in  Section 3.01 ,  Section
3.03 ,  Section 3.11(b) ,  Section 4.01(a) ,  Section
4.01(b) , Section 5.01(a), Section 5.01(b),  Section
5.03  and  Section 5.12(b)  shall survive the
Closing indefinitely.  The covenants and agreements of the parties
hereto contained in or made pursuant to this Agreement shall survive the Closing
indefinitely until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or
for the shorter period explicitly specified therein, except that breaches of any
such covenants or agreements shall survive indefinitely or until the latest date
permitted by law. 

Section
12.02      .  Expenses.  (a)
Except as may be otherwise specified in the Transaction Agreements, all costs
and expenses, including fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors
and accountants, incurred in connection with the Transaction Agreements and the
transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements shall be borne by the
party incurring such costs and expenses; provided that, except as otherwise
provided in  Section 12.02(b) , none of NBCU, Newco
or any of their respective Subsidiaries shall bear any costs or expenses in
connection with the Transaction Agreements, the transactions contemplated by the
Transaction Agreements, any alternative transaction considered prior to the date
hereof involving the prospective sale of NBCU or of all or a substantial part of
the NBCU Businesses or any potential initial public offering of NBCU (and all
such costs and expenses shall be borne by GE). 

(b)     All
(i) reasonable, out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred (including such costs
and expenses incurred by NBCU, Newco and their respective Subsidiaries) in
connection with the NBCU Financing, the Alternative Financing or any other
financing contemplated by  Section 6.16(a) 
(including any and all commitment fees, underwriting fees, ticking fees and
arrangement fees,  

123 

indemnification
obligations) (collectively,   Financing Costs  ) and (ii)
reasonable, out-of-pocket fees, costs and expenses incurred by the NBCU Entities
in connection with preparation for a potential initial public offering of NBCU
(collectively,   IPO
Costs  ) will be paid by GE;  provided  that (A) Comcast
shall cause an Affiliate of Comcast to reimburse GE for 50% of the amount of all
Financing Costs ( provided  that Comcast shall
have no reimbursement obligation with respect to indemnification obligations)
and IPO Costs paid by GE promptly, and in any event within five (5) Business
Days, following receipt of a written request for such reimbursement from GE, (B)
if the Closing occurs, (1) NBCU shall at or promptly following the Closing
reimburse each of GE and such Affiliate of Comcast for all Financing Costs that
it has so borne and all IPO Costs that it has so borne to the extent that such
IPO Costs were incurred on or after July 1, 2009 and not exceeding $7.5 million
in the aggregate ( i.e. ,
the maximum reimbursement that each of GE and Comcast is entitled to receive
from NBCU pursuant to this clause (1) is $3.75 million) and (2) GE shall at or
promptly following the Closing reimburse such Affiliate of Comcast for all IPO
Costs, if any, that it has so borne and with respect to which it is not entitled
to receive reimbursement from NBCU pursuant to the preceding clause (1), and (C)
if this Agreement is terminated, GE shall reimburse such Affiliate of Comcast
promptly, and in any event within five (5) Business Days, following such
termination for all IPO Costs that such Affiliate has so borne and that were not
also attributable to the NBCU Financing, the Alternative Financing or any other
financing contemplated by  Section
6.16(a) .  If GE or NBCU receives a refund for any Financing Costs,
it shall promptly reimburse the applicable Affiliate of Comcast for the portion
of such refunded Financing Costs previously borne by such
Affiliate.  Each of GE, Comcast and NBCU shall, to the extent
requested, provide the other with reasonable supporting documentation in
connection with the allocation of Financing Costs and IPO Costs pursuant to this
 Section 12.02(b) . 

Section
12.03     .   Notices.   All
notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under the
Transaction Agreements shall be in writing and shall be given or made (and shall
be deemed to have been duly given or made upon receipt) by delivery in person,
by overnight courier service, by facsimile with receipt confirmed (followed by
delivery of an original via overnight courier service) or by registered or
certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective
parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as
shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this  Section 12.03 ): 

(i)     if
to Comcast: 

124 

Comcast
Corporation 

      One
Comcast Center 

      Philadelphia,
PA 19103 

      Attention: 
General Counsel 

      Facsimile: 
(215) 286-7794 

with
a copy to: 

Davis
Polk   Wardwell  LLP  

      450
Lexington Avenue 

      New
York, NY 10017 

      Attention: 
David L.
Caplan                 
  Marc
O. Williams 

      Facsimile: (212)
701-5800 

(ii)     if
to GE: 

General
Electric Company 

      3135
Easton Turnpike, W3A24 

      Fairfield,
CT 06828 

      Attention: 
Senior Counsel for Transactions 

      Facsimile: 
(203) 373-3008 

      with
a copy to: 

Weil,
Gotshal   Manges LLP 

767
Fifth Avenue 

      New
York, NY 10153 

      Attention: 
Howard Chatzinoff 

Jay
Tabor  

      Facsimile: (212)
310-8007 

(iii)     if
to NBCU or Newco: 

NBC
Universal, Inc. 

      30
Rockefeller Plaza 

      New
York, NY 10012 

      Phone:                      (212)
664-1988 

      Attention:                      Chief
Financial Officer and General Counsel 

      Facsimile:                      (212)
664-2147 

and
prior to Closing: 

125 

Navy,
LLC 

      c/o
General Electric Company 

      3135
Easton Turnpike, W3A24 

      Fairfield,
CT 06828 

      Attention:  Senior
Counsel for Transactions 

      Facsimile: (203)
373-3008 

Section
12.04      .  Severability.   If
any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable
of being enforced under any Law or as a matter of public policy, all other
conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full
force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement is not affected in any manner materially adverse
to any party.  Upon such determination that any term or other
provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties to
this Agreement shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to
effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in a mutually
acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
be consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent
possible. 

Section
12.05      .  Entire
Agreement.   The Transaction Agreements constitute the entire
agreement between the parties hereto and thereto with respect to the subject
matter of the Transaction Agreements and supersede all prior agreements,
undertakings and understandings, both written and oral, other than the
Confidentiality Agreement to the extent not in conflict with this Agreement,
between or on behalf of the parties hereto and thereto, with respect to the
subject matter of the Transaction Agreements.  The parties hereto have
voluntarily agreed to define their rights, liabilities and obligations
respecting the subject matter of this Agreement exclusively in contract pursuant
to the express terms and provisions of this Agreement; and the parties hereto
expressly disclaim that they are owed any duties not expressly set forth in this
Agreement.  Furthermore, the parties hereto each hereby acknowledge
that this Agreement embodies the justifiable expectations of sophisticated
parties derived from arm s length negotiations; all parties to this Agreement
specifically acknowledge that no party has any special relationship with another
party that would justify any expectation beyond that of ordinary parties in an
arm s length transaction.  The sole and exclusive remedies for any
breach of the terms and provisions of this Agreement (including any
representations and warranties set forth herein) shall be those remedies
provided for in this Agreement or available at Law or in equity for breach of
contract only (as such contractual remedies may be further limited or excluded
pursuant to the express terms of this Agreement); and the parties hereto hereby
waive and release any and all tort claims and causes of action that may be based
upon, arise out of or relate to this Agreement, or the negotiation, execution or
performance of this Agreement (including any tort claim or cause of action based
upon, arising out of or related to any representation or warranty made in or in
connection with this Agreement or as an inducement to enter into this

126 

Agreement).  Notwithstanding
the foregoing, nothing in this Agreement shall constitute a waiver or release,
or limit any party s right to pursue any claim or remedy, with respect to
intentional fraud of another party. 

Section
12.06      .  Assignment.   This
Agreement shall not be assigned by operation of Law or otherwise by any party
hereto without the prior written consent of the other parties hereto, except
that GE, NBCU or Comcast may assign any or all of their respective rights and
obligations under this Agreement to any of their respective Affiliates;  provided  that no such
assignment shall release the applicable assignor from any liability or
obligation under this Agreement.  Any attempted assignment in
violation of this  Section 12.06  shall be
void.  This Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the
benefit of, and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their permitted
successors and assigns. 

Section
12.07      .  No Third-Party
Beneficiaries.   Except as provided in  Section 6.18  with respect to the D O Indemnitees
or in  Article 11  with respect to the Indemnified
Parties, this Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties to this Agreement
and their permitted successors and assigns and nothing in this Agreement or any
other Transaction Agreements, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer
upon any other Person, including any union or any employee or former employee of
GE or the Combined Businesses, or entity any legal or equitable right, benefit
or remedy of any nature whatsoever, including any rights of employment for any
specified period, under or by reason of this Agreement. 

Section
12.08      .  Amendment.   No
provision of this Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement, including any
Exhibits or Schedules thereto, may be amended, supplemented or modified except
by a written instrument making specific reference hereto or thereto signed by
all the parties to such agreement.  No consent from any Indemnified
Party under  Article 11  (other than the parties
hereto) shall be required in order to amend this Agreement. 

Section
12.09      .  Disclosure
Letter.   Any disclosure with respect to a Section of this
Agreement, including any Section of the Disclosure Letters, shall be deemed
to be disclosed for other Sections of this Agreement, including any
Section of the Disclosure Letters, to the extent that such disclosure is
reasonably sufficient so that the relevance of such disclosure would be
reasonably apparent to a reader of such disclosure.  Matters reflected
in any Section of this Agreement, including any Section of the
Disclosure Letters, are not necessarily limited to matters required by this
Agreement to be so reflected.  Such additional matters are set forth
for informational purposes and do not necessarily include other matters of a
similar nature.  No reference to or disclosure of any item or other
matter in any Section of this Agreement, including any Section of the
Disclosure Letters, shall be construed as an admission or indication that such
item or other matter is material or that such item or other matter is required
to be referred to or disclosed in this Agreement.  Without limiting
the foregoing, no such reference  

127 

to
or disclosure of a possible breach or violation of any contract, Law or
Governmental Order shall be construed as an admission or indication that breach
or violation exists or has actually occurred. 

Section
12.10     .   Dispute
Resolution.   (a)  Except as set forth in the
Ancillary Agreements, and except with respect to any request for equitable
relief (including interim relief) by any of the parties hereto on or prior to
the Closing Date, any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating
to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, or the validity,
interpretation, breach or termination of any such agreement, including claims
seeking redress or asserting rights under any Law (a   Dispute  ), shall be resolved
in accordance with the procedures set forth in this  Section 12.10 ,  Section
12.11  and  Section 12.16 .  Until
completion of the procedures set forth in  Section
12.10(b) , no party may take any action to force a resolution of a Dispute by
any judicial or similar process, except to the limited extent necessary to (i)
avoid expiration of a claim that might eventually be permitted by this Agreement
or (ii) obtain interim relief, including injunctive relief, to preserve the
status quo or prevent irreparable harm. 

(b)     Any
party seeking resolution of a Dispute shall first submit the Dispute to the
relevant other parties.  Each party agrees to confer and discuss in
good faith potential mutually agreeable resolutions to such Dispute, including
by designating an appropriate member of senior management to serve as its
representative in such discussions.  Discussions will continue for at
least 10 days following submission of the Dispute. 

(c)     All
offers of compromise or settlement among the parties or their Representatives in
connection with the attempted resolution of any Dispute shall be deemed to have
been delivered in furtherance of a Dispute settlement and shall be exempt from
discovery and production and shall not be admissible in evidence (whether as an
admission or otherwise) in any proceeding for the resolution of the
Dispute. 

Section
12.11      .  Governing Law;
Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers.   (a) Except as set forth
in the Ancillary Agreements, this Agreement and each other Transaction Agreement
(and any claims, causes of action or disputes that may be based upon, arise out
of or relate hereto or thereto, to the transactions contemplated hereby and
thereby, to the negotiation, execution or performance hereof or thereof, or to
the inducement of any party to enter herein and therein, whether for breach of
contract, tortious conduct or otherwise and whether predicated on common law,
statute or otherwise) shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the Laws of the State of Delaware, including all matters of
construction, validity and performance, in each case without reference to any
conflict of Law rules that might lead to the application of the Laws of any
other jurisdiction. 

128 

(b)     Each
of the parties hereto agrees that if any Dispute is not resolved by discussions
undertaken pursuant to  Section 12.10 , such Dispute
shall be resolved only in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware (or if
unavailable, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware or, if
unavailable, the Delaware Superior Court) and the appellate courts having
jurisdiction of appeals in such courts.  In that context, and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, each of the parties hereto by this
Agreement irrevocably and unconditionally: 

(i)     submits
for itself and its property in any Action relating to the Transaction
Agreements, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect
thereof, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Chancery Court of the State of
Delaware (or if unavailable, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware
or, if unavailable, the Delaware Superior Court), and appellate courts having
jurisdiction of appeals from any of the foregoing, and agrees that all claims in
respect of any such Action shall be heard and determined in such Delaware court
or, to the extent permitted by Law, in such federal court; 

(ii)     consents
that any such Action may and shall be brought in such courts and waives any
objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue or jurisdiction of any
such Action in any such court or that such Action was brought in an inconvenient
court and agrees not to plead or claim the same; 

(iii)     agrees
that service of process in any such Action may be effected by mailing a copy of
such process by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form
of mail), postage prepaid, to such party at its address as provided in  Section 12.03 ; and 

(iv)     agrees
that nothing in the Transaction Agreements shall affect the right to effect
service of process in any other manner permitted by the Laws of the State of
Delaware. 

Section
12.12      .  Bulk Sales
Laws.   The parties hereto hereby waive compliance by the
Transferors with the provisions of the  bulk sales ,  bulk transfer  or similar
Laws of any state or any jurisdiction outside the United States, including
Article 6 of the New York Commercial Code, that may otherwise be applicable with
respect to the sale of any of the Contributed Assets. 

Section
12.13      .  Specific
Performance.   Each party hereto acknowledges and agrees that
the breach of this Agreement would cause irreparable damage to the other parties
hereto and that no party hereto will have an adequate remedy at
law.  Therefore, the obligations of the parties hereto under this
Agreement shall be enforceable by a decree of specific performance issued by any
court of competent jurisdiction, and appropriate injunctive relief may be
applied for and  

129 

granted
in connection therewith.  Such remedies shall, however, be cumulative
and not exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies which any party
may have under this Agreement or otherwise. 

Section
12.14      .  Rules of
Construction.   Interpretation of the Transaction Agreements
shall be governed by the following rules of
construction:  (a) words in the singular shall be held to include
the plural and vice versa, and words of one gender shall be held to include the
other gender as the context requires; (b) references to the terms Article,
Section, paragraph and Exhibit are references to the Articles, Sections,
paragraphs and Exhibits to this Agreement unless otherwise specified; (c) the
terms  hereof ,  herein ,  hereby ,  hereto , and derivative or similar words
refer to this entire Agreement, including the Disclosure Letters and Exhibits
hereto; (d) references to  $  shall mean U.S. dollars; (e) the word  including 
and words of similar import when used in the Transaction Agreements shall mean
 including without limitation,  unless otherwise specified; (f) the word  or 
shall not be exclusive; (g) references to  written  or  in writing  include in
electronic form; (h)  the headings contained in the Transaction Agreements
are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or
interpretation of the Transaction Agreements; (i) the parties hereto have each
participated in the negotiation and drafting of the Transaction Agreements and
if an ambiguity or question of interpretation should arise, the Transaction
Agreements shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties thereto and
no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or burdening any party
hereto by virtue of the authorship of any of the provisions in any of the
Transaction Agreements; (j) a reference to any Person includes such Person s
successors and permitted assigns; (k) any reference to  days  means calendar
days unless Business Days are expressly specified; (l) when calculating the
period of time before which, within which or following which any act is to be
done or step taken pursuant to this Agreement, the date that is the reference
date in calculating such period shall be excluded and, if the last day of such
period is not a Business Day, the period shall end on the next succeeding
Business Day; and (m) an item arising with respect to a specific representation
or warranty shall be deemed to be  reflected on  or  set forth in  a balance
sheet or financial statements, to the extent (i) there is a reserve, accrual or
other similar item underlying a number on such balance sheet or financial
statement that is related to the subject matter of such representation, (ii)
such item is otherwise specifically set forth on the balance sheet or financial
statement or (iii) such item is reflected on the balance sheet or financial
statement and is specifically referred to in the notes thereto. 

Section
12.15      .  Counterparts.   Each
of the Transaction Agreements may be executed in one or more counterparts, and
by the different parties to each such agreement in separate counterparts, each
of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  Delivery of an
executed counterpart of a signature page to any  

130 

Transaction
Agreement by facsimile or portable document format (.pdf) shall be as effective
as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of any such
Agreement. 

Section
12.16      .  Waiver of Jury
Trial.   EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT
TO ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS AGREEMENT, ANY OTHER TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS OR ANY TRANSACTION
CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT
NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED,
EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF
LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT
AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND
THE OTHER TRANSACTION AGREEMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND
CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION  12.16 . 

Section
12.17      .  Non-Recourse.   Except
as provided in  Section 11.01 , no past, present or
future director, officer, employee, incorporator, member, partner, stockholder,
Affiliate, agent, attorney or representative of any party hereto, or their
respective Affiliates, shall have any liability for any obligations or
liabilities of the parties hereto, as applicable, under this Agreement or the
other Transaction Agreements of or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by
reason of, the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. 

Section
12.18      .  Public
Announcements.   No party to this Agreement or any Affiliate or
Representative of such party shall issue or cause the publication of any press
release or public announcement in respect of this Agreement or the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other
parties (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), except as
may be required by Law or stock exchange rules, in which the case the party
required to publish such press release or public announcement shall allow the
other parties a reasonable opportunity to comment on such press release or
public announcement in advance of such publication, to the extent
practicable. 

[THE
REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 

131 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this Agreement to be executed on
the date first written above by their respective duly authorized
officers. 

GENERAL
      ELECTRIC COMPANY  

By: 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Name:
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Title:
      Chairman and Chief Executive Office 

132 

NBC
      UNIVERSAL, INC.  

By: 

/s/
      Jeffrey A. Zucker 

Name:
      Jeffrey A. Zucker 

Title:
      President   CEO 

133 

COMCAST
      CORPORATION  

By: 

/s/
      Robert S. Pick 

Name:
      Robert S. Pick 

Title:
      Senior Vice President 

134 

NAVY,
      LLC   

By: 

/s/
      Robert Duffy 

Name:
      Robert Duffy 

Title:
      President of Navy Holdings, Inc., the Sole Member 

135 

EXHIBIT
A 

DEFINITIONS 

2008 Comcast Financial
Statements   means the combined balance sheet of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses at December 31, 2008 and the related combined statements of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. 

2008 Contributed Comcast Businesses
EBITDA   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.25 . 

2008 Contributed Comcast Businesses
EBITDA Adjustment Amount   means (i) if the 2008 Contributed Comcast
Businesses EBITDA is equal to or greater than 90% of the amount set forth on
Section 6.25 of the Comcast Disclosure Letter, $0; and (ii) if the 2008
Contributed Comcast Businesses EBITDA is less than 90% of the amount set forth
on Section 6.25 of the Comcast Disclosure Letter, an amount equal to the product
of (A) the amount set forth on Section 6.25 of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter  minus  the 2008
Contributed Comcast Business EBITDA,  times  (B) 13.0. 

30 Rock Lease   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 6.19(f)  .  

30 Rock Term Sheet   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
6.19(f) . 

Action   means any claim,
action, suit, arbitration, or any proceeding or investigation by or before any
Governmental Authority. 

Affiliate   means, with respect
to any specified Person, any other Person that, at the time of determination,
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls, is
Controlled by or is under common Control with such specified Person;  provided ,  however , that for the
purposes of this Agreement, (i) prior to the Closing, neither the Comcast
Transferors nor the NBCU Transferors shall be deemed Affiliates of Newco and
(ii) after the Closing, none of the NBCU Transferors shall be deemed
Affiliates of Newco, the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or the NBCU
Entities. 

Affiliation Agreements   means
affiliation, distribution or similar Contracts for the distribution of video
programming services with a multichannel video programming distributor for the
distribution of programming services, including cable systems, SMATV, open video
systems and MMDS, MDS and DBS systems, wireless and broadband, and any
correspondence or writings amending the foregoing. 

A-1 

Agreement   means this Master
Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, by and among GE, NBCU, Comcast and
Newco, including the Disclosure Letters, the NBCU Employee Matters Agreement and
the Comcast Employee Matters Agreement and all amendments hereto and thereto
made in accordance with  Section 12.08 . 

Alternative Financing   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.16(a) . 

Alternative Financing
Agreements   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.16(a) . 

Ancillary Agreements   means
the Tax Matters Agreement, the GE Transition Services Agreement, the Comcast
Services Agreement, the GE Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement, the
Comcast Intellectual Property Cross License Agreement, the Newco Operating
Agreement, the Navy Holdco 2 Agreement, the GE Note, the Comcast Note and the
Organizational Documents. 

Assumed Comcast Contracts  
means all Contracts, other than any Employee Plans or Intellectual Property
Contracts, to which Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (except for any
Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) is a party that are primarily related to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

Assumed Comcast IP Licenses  
means all Intellectual Property Contracts (other than any of the Ancillary
Agreements) to which Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any
Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) is a party that are primarily related to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

Assumed Comcast Liabilities  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.03(c) . 

Assumed NBCU Contracts   means
all Contracts, other than any Employer Plans, Intellectual Property Contracts or
Insurance Arrangements, to which GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any
NBCU Entity) is a party that are primarily related to the NBCU
Businesses. 

Assumed NBCU IP Licenses  
means all Intellectual Property Contracts (other than any of the Ancillary
Agreements) to which GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity)
is a party that are primarily related to the NBCU Businesses. 

Assumed NBCU Liabilities  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.02(c) . 

Automatic Transfer
Legislation   means the Acquired Rights Directive 2001/23/EC or any other
applicable automatic transfer of employment legislation. 

A-2 

Broadcast TV Agreements   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
3.14(a)(x) . 

Business   shall have the
meaning set forth in the Newco Operating Agreement. 

Business Day   means any day
that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in the
City of New York, New York are required or authorized by Law to be
closed. 

Closing   shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.06. 

Closing Date   shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.06. 

Closing Statement   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
2.10(a) . 

Code   means the United States
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

Collective Bargaining
Agreements   mean any and all agreements, memorandums of understanding,
contracts, letters, side letters and contractual obligations of any kind, nature
and description, oral or written, that have been entered into between or that
involve or apply to any employer and any labor organization, union, employee
association, agency or employee committee or plan. 

Combined Businesses   means the
NBCU Businesses and the Contributed Comcast Businesses,
collectively. 

Comcast   shall have the
meaning set forth in the Preamble. 

Comcast Acquisitions Amount  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(b). 

Comcast Assets   means the
Contributed Comcast Assets and the assets of the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries. 

Comcast Available Insurance
Policy   means any insurance policy maintained by Comcast or any of its
Subsidiaries or Affiliates for the benefit of the Contributed Comcast Business
or any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary or otherwise covering any Contributed
Comcast Asset, Assumed Comcast Liability or Comcast Transferred Employee,
Inactive Comcast Business Employee or Former Contributed Business Employee, in
each case, that is not a Comcast Transferable Insurance Policy. 

A-3 

Comcast Cable Networks   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
5.15(a)(xii) . 

Comcast Contributed Business
Employees   means, collectively, any current or former officer or employee
of any of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries and any other current or former
employee of any Affiliate of any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary substantially
employed in the Contributed Comcast Businesses or providing services primarily
in support of the Contributed Comcast Businesses, but in each case in respect of
or solely to the extent relating to employment in the Contributed Comcast
Business. 

Comcast Deductible Amount  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
11.02(b) . 

Comcast Disclosure Letter  
means the disclosure letter dated as of the date hereof delivered by Comcast to
Newco and which forms a part of this Agreement. 

Comcast Disposition
Transaction   means any sale or other disposition by Comcast or any of its
Subsidiaries of any business or investment that would otherwise be within the
Contributed Comcast Businesses (whether effected by sale of assets or securities
or otherwise) pursuant to  Section
6.01(b)(v) (ii). 

Comcast Disposition Transaction
Proceeds   means the aggregate after-Tax proceeds net of reasonable,
out-of-pocket third party fees, expenses and costs (including severance and
termination costs) received by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries with respect
to Comcast Disposition Transactions entered into after the date of this
Agreement. 

Comcast Employee Agreement  
shall have the meaning set forth in the Comcast Employee Matters
Agreement. 

Comcast Employee
Beneficiaries   shall have the meaning set forth in the Comcast Employee
Matters Agreement. 

Comcast Employee Matters
Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.01 . 

Comcast Employee Plans   means
the Employee Plans with respect to which any of the Comcast Transferors or
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or their respective Affiliates currently has
any Liabilities with respect to any Comcast Contributed Business
Employee. 

Comcast FCC Licenses   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
5.11(c) . 

A-4 

Comcast Financial Statements  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
5.06(a) . 

Comcast Indemnified Parties  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
11.01(a) . 

Comcast Intellectual Property  
means the Comcast Owned Intellectual Property and the Comcast Licensed
Intellectual Property. 

Comcast Intellectual Property Cross
License Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.12(d) . 

Comcast IP Licenses   means all
Intellectual Property Contracts (other than any of the Ancillary Agreements) (i)
which are Assumed Comcast IP Licenses, or (ii) to which any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary is a party. 

Comcast LCs   shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 6.07(b). 

Comcast Leased Real Property  
means the Contributed Comcast Leased Property as well as any real property that
is leased by a Contributed Comcast Subsidiary. 

Comcast Licensed Intellectual
Property   means all Intellectual Property owned by a third party and
licensed or sublicensed to any of the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries or for which any of the Comcast Transferors or the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has obtained a covenant not to be sued, in each
case, under any Comcast IP License. 

Comcast Licenses   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
5.11(b) . 

Comcast Material Adverse
Effect   means a Material Adverse Effect on the Contributed Comcast
Businesses. 

Comcast Minority Interests  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
5.03(b) . 

Comcast Multiemployer Plans  
means Multiemployer Plans as to which the Comcast Contributed Subsidiaries have
any Liabilities by reason of contributions made with respect to Comcast
Contributed Business Employees in the Comcast Contributed Businesses, but in the
case of any such plan for which contributions were made with respect to
employees of the Comcast Transferors or their Affiliates (other than the Comcast
Subsidiaries) only to the extent of the Liabilities attributable to the Comcast
Contributed Business Employees and their Comcast Employee Beneficiaries or
activities of the Comcast Contributed Business. 

A-5 

Comcast Name and Comcast
Marks   means any and all trade names, trademarks, service marks, service
names, trade dress, and logos (other than any Trademarks set forth, or required
to be set forth, on Schedule 5.13(e)(i) of the Comcast Disclosure Letter) that
are owned by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary) as of the Closing Date or any derivations thereof, in each
case whether alone or in combination with other words, and including all marks,
trade dress, logos, monograms, domain names and other source identifiers
embodying any of the foregoing;  provided ,  however , that, for purposes
of this Agreement, the foregoing trade names, trademarks, service marks, service
names, trade dress, logos, derivations, combinations and embodiments shall be
defined to include only the Trademark rights of Comcast or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) to the extent, as
of the Closing Date that, (i) registrations or applications for registration in
the name of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary) have issued or been filed or (ii) Comcast or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) has common law
rights therein under applicable Trademark Laws.   For the
avoidance of doubt,  Comcast Name and Comcast Marks  includes the Core Comcast
Marks. 

Comcast Note   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 2.08(g) . 

Comcast/NBCU Purchase Price  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.04 . 

Comcast Owned Intellectual
Property   means all Intellectual Property that is (i) Contributed
Comcast Owned Intellectual Property or (ii) owned by any of the Contributed
Comcast Subsidiaries. 

Comcast Owned Real Property  
means the Contributed Comcast Owned Property as well as any real property owned
by a Contributed Comcast Subsidiary. 

Comcast Parent Plans   means
the Comcast Employee Plans which are sponsored or maintained by Comcast
Transferors or their Affiliates (other than the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries) and which do not solely cover Comcast Contributed Business
Employees. 

Comcast Personal Data   shall
have the meaning set forth in the Comcast Employee Matters
Agreement. 

Comcast Real Properties  
means, collectively, the Comcast Owned Real Property and the Comcast Leased Real
Property. 

Comcast Reference Balance
Sheet   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 5.06(a) . 

A-6 

Comcast Registered IP   means
all Registered IP included in the Comcast Owned Intellectual
Property. 

Comcast Restructuring   means
the actions set forth on  Section 6.14  of the
Comcast Disclosure Letter. 

Comcast Retention Agreements  
means retention agreements with Comcast Contributed Business Employees that are
entered into by any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary or one of its Affiliates
after the date hereof and prior to the Closing Date with the prior written
consent of NBCU. 

Comcast SEC Documents   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
5.07 . 

Comcast Services Agreement  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.12(b) . 

Comcast Subsidiary Plans  
means (i) the Comcast Employee Plans which are sponsored or maintained solely by
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, (ii) the Comcast Employee Plans which solely
cover Comcast Contributed Business Employees (including such plans established
pursuant to the Comcast Employee Matters Agreement) and their Comcast Employee
Beneficiaries and (iii) Comcast Multiemployer Plans. 

Comcast Technology   means all
Technology that is (i) Contributed Comcast Technology or (ii) owned by any of
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries. 

Comcast Trademark License  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(a). 

Comcast Transferable Insurance
Policies   means all insurance policies or self-insurance programs
acquired directly by and in the name of Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries or
entered into by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates exclusively for
the benefit of the Comcast Businesses or any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary. 

Comcast Transferors   means,
collectively, Comcast and the Subsidiaries of Comcast (other than the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries) that, on or after the date hereof, hold any
asset, property or right that is used primarily or held for use primarily in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses or have any liability arising out of or relating
to the Contributed Comcast Assets or the Contributed Comcast
Businesses. 

Comcast Transferred Employee  
shall have the meaning set forth in the Comcast Employee Matters
Agreement. 

A-7 

Communications Act   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section 3.05 . 

Confidentiality Agreement  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.04 . 

Contemplated to be used   means
that there are contemporaneous books or records, whether in hard copy or
electronic or digital format (including emails, data bases, and other file
formats) evidencing a specific, good faith intention of future use. 

Contracts   means all written
or oral contracts, subcontracts, agreements, leases, licenses, commitments,
sales and purchase orders, and other instruments, arrangements or understandings
of any kind. 

Contributed Assets   means the
Contributed Comcast Assets and Contributed NBCU Assets, or either of them, as
the context requires. 

Contributed Businesses   means
the Contributed Comcast Businesses and NBCU Businesses, or either of them, as
the context requires. 

Contributed Comcast Assets  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.03(a) . 

Contributed Comcast
Businesses   means the businesses of Comcast and its Subsidiaries to the
extent within the Scope of Business (as defined in the Newco Operating
Agreement), other than the Comcast Permitted Businesses (as defined in the Newco
Operating Agreement), as conducted prior to the date hereof, as of the date
hereof, and as of the Closing. 

Contributed Comcast Equity
Interests   means the limited liability company interests, stock or other
equity interests of the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries held directly by any
Comcast Transferor. 

Contributed Comcast Insurance
Policies   means the Comcast Transferable Insurance Policies that are not
in the name of a Contributed Comcast Subsidiary. 

Contributed Comcast Leased
Property   means all right, title and interest of Comcast or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) in and to leased
real property and other interests in real property, including under any real
property lease pursuant to which any of them lease, sublease (as sub-landlord or
sub-tenant), or otherwise occupy, any such leased real property, together with
any leasehold improvements, fixtures and appurtenances thereto, in each case,
that is used primarily or held for use primarily in the Contributed Comcast
Businesses. 

A-8 

Contributed Comcast Owned
Intellectual Property   means all Intellectual Property that is owned by
Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary) and that is used, held for use or Contemplated to be used, in each
case, primarily in the Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

Contributed Comcast Owned
Property   means all real property, together with all improvements,
fixtures and appurtenances thereto and rights in respect thereof, owned by
Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary) that is used primarily or held for use primarily in the Contributed
Comcast Businesses. 

Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries   means the direct or indirect Subsidiaries of Comcast listed
in  Section 1.01  of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter. 

Contributed Comcast
Technology   means all Technology that is owned by Comcast or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) and that is used,
held for use or Contemplated to be used, in each case, primarily in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses. 

Contributed NBCU Assets   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.02(a) . 

Contributed NBCU Leased
Property   means all right, title and interest of GE or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) in and to leased real property and
other interests in real property, including under any real property lease
pursuant to which any of them lease, sublease (as sub-landlord or sub-tenant),
or otherwise occupy, any such leased real property, together with any leasehold
improvements, fixtures and appurtenances thereto, in each case, that is used
primarily or held for use primarily in the NBCU Businesses. 

Contributed NBCU Owned Intellectual
Property   means all Intellectual Property that is owned by GE or any of
its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) and that is used, held for use or
Contemplated to be used, in each case, primarily in the NBCU
Businesses. 

Contributed NBCU Owned
Property   means all real property, together with all improvements,
fixtures and appurtenances thereto and rights in respect thereof, owned by GE or
any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) that is used primarily or
held for use primarily in the NBCU Businesses. 

Contributed NBCU Technology  
means all Technology that is owned by GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than
any NBCU Entity) and that is used, held for use or Contemplated to be used, in
each case, primarily in the NBCU Businesses. 

A-9 

Control   means, as to any
Person, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and
policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by
contract or otherwise.  The terms  Controlled by ,  Controlled ,
 under common Control with  and  Controlling  shall have correlative
meanings. 

Controlling Party   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
11.04(b) . 

Core Comcast Marks   means the
following trade names, trademarks, service marks, service names and logos:
 Comcast  (in block letters or otherwise), the  Comcast   Design 
(concentric C) mark,  Comcast Sportsnet  and  CSN , or any derivations of any of
the foregoing, in each case whether alone or in combination with other words,
and including all marks, trade dress, logos, monograms, domain names and other
source identifiers embodying any of the foregoing. 

Core GE Marks   means the
following trade names, trademarks, service marks, service names and logos:
 General Electric  (in block letters or otherwise), the GE monogram,  GE
Company  and  GE , or any derivations of any of the foregoing, in each case
whether alone or in combination with other words, and including all marks, trade
dress, logos, monograms, domain names and other source identifiers embodying any
of the foregoing. 

D O Indemnitees   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 6.18(a). 

Debt   of any Person means (i)
all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase
price of property or services (other than trade payables and other similar
obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business), (ii) all obligations
of such Person which are evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar
instruments, (iii) all obligations of such Person that have been, or should be,
in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (iv) all obligations of
such Person that have been, or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as a
sale-leaseback transaction or leveraged lease, (v) all obligations of such
Person in respect of letters of credit or acceptances issued or created for the
account of such Person, (vi) all liabilities secured by any lien granted on
assets or properties of such Person, whether or not the obligations secured
thereby have been assumed, and (vii) all direct or indirect guarantees
(including  keep well  arrangements, support agreements and similar agreements)
with respect to Indebtedness of any other Person referred to in clauses (i)
through (vi);  provided 
that Debt shall not include (A) trade and other ordinary course payables and
accrued expenses arising in the ordinary course of business, (B) deferred
compensation, pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities and (C) take
or pay obligations arising in the ordinary course of business. 

A-10 

Delaware Law   means any law of
the State of Delaware, including the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware, any other statutory, common or other law of the State of Delaware, and
any judicial or administrative interpretations thereof. 

Delivering Party   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section 6.02 . 

Designated Comcast Contract  
means (i) any Contract of the type referred to in (A)  Section 5.15(a)(ii)  (except that for this purpose the
reference to $12.5 million therein shall be deemed to be $25 million),
(B)  Section 5.15(a)(iii)(A)  (except that for
this purpose the reference to $18.75 million therein shall be deemed to be $75
million), (C)  Section 5.15(a)(iv)  (except that for
this purpose the reference to $2.5 million therein shall be deemed to be $10
million), (D)  Section 5.15(a)(xii)  (except that for
this purpose the reference to $2.5 million therein shall be deemed to be $10
million), (E)  Section 5.15(a)(xiii)  (except that
for this purpose the reference to $2.5 million therein shall be deemed to be $20
million) or (F)  Section 5.15(a)(xv)  (except that
for this purpose the reference to $25 million therein shall be deemed to be $50
million), (ii) any  term deal  as commonly understood in the motion picture or
television industry that would reasonably be expected to involve payments in
excess of $20 million in any twelve (12)-month period or $100 million in the
aggregate, (iii) any Comcast IP License not entered into in the ordinary course
of business consistent with past practice, other than a Comcast IP License of
the type referred to in clause  (A) ,  (B)  or  (C)  of  Section 5.15(a)(x) , (iv) any Talent Contract (A)
reasonably expected to involve payments in excess of $15 million (excluding
participations or other similar variable payments) in any twelve (12)-month
period and having a term of five (5) years or more or (B) reasonably expected to
involved payments in excess of $20 million (excluding participations or other
similar variable payments) in any twelve (12)-month period and (v) any Contract
between the Contributed Comcast Businesses and any third party to produce or
Exploit Programs or any other audio, visual or audiovisual works that would
reasonably be expected to involve payments by the Contributed Comcast Businesses
in excess of $250 million (excluding participations or other similar variable
payments). 

Designated Comcast
Representations   means the representations and warranties of Comcast set
forth in  Section 5.06 ,  Section 5.08(a)(ii) , the first sentence of  Section 5.11(b) ,  Section
5.12(c) ,  Section 5.13(h) ,  Section 5.14(b) ,  Section
5.15(a)(iii)(B) ,  Section 5.15(a)(x) , the first
sentence of  Section 5.16(a) , Section 5.17(a) and  Section 5.21(b) . 

Designated NBCU Contract  
means (i) any Contract of the type referred to in (A)  Section 3.14(a)(ii) , (B)  Section 3.14(a)(iii)(A) , (C)  Section 3.14(a)(iv) , (D)  Section 3.14(a)(xiii) , (E)  Section 3.14(a)(xiv)  (except that for this purpose the
reference to $2.5 million therein shall be deemed to be $20 million) or
(F)  Section 3.14(a)(xvi) , (ii) any  term deal 
as commonly understood in the  

A-11 

motion
picture or television industry that would reasonably be expected to involve
payments in excess of $20 million in any twelve (12)-month period or $100
million in the aggregate, (iii) any NBCU IP License not entered into in the
ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, other than a NBCU IP
License of the type referred to in clause (A), (B) or (C) of  Section 3.14(a)(xi) , (iv) any Talent Contract (A)
reasonably expected to involve payments in excess of $15 million (excluding
participations or other similar variable payments) in any twelve (12)-month
period and having a term of five (5) years or more or (B) reasonably expected to
involved payments in excess of $20 million (excluding participations or other
similar variable payments) in an twelve (12)-month period and (v) any Contract
between the NBCU Businesses and any third party to produce or Exploit Programs
or any other audio, visual or audiovisual works that would reasonably be
expected to involve payments by the NBCU Businesses in excess of $500 million
(excluding participations or other similar variable payments). 

Designated NBCU
Representations   means the representations and warranties of NBCU set
forth in  Section 3.06 ,  Section 3.07(a)(ii) , the first sentence of  Section 3.10(c) ,  Section
3.11(c) ,  Section 3.12(h) ,  Section 3.13(b) ,  Section
3.14(a)(iii)(B) ,  Section 3.14(a)(xi) , the first
sentence of  Section 3.15(a) ,  Section 3.16 (a) and  Section
3.19(b) . 

Development Agreement   shall
mean that certain Development Services Agreement with Thomas Properties Group
regarding the NBCU Owned Real Property located in Universal City,
California. 

Disclosure Letters   means the
GE Disclosure Letter, NBCU Disclosure Letter and Comcast Disclosure
Letter. 

Dispute   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 12.10 . 

Disputed Item   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 2.10(b)  

EBITDA   shall have the meaning
set forth on Section 1.01 of the Comcast Disclosure Letter. 

Employee Plans   means (i) all
employee benefit plans (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA), (ii)
all retirement, welfare benefit, stock option, stock purchase, stock award or
other equity-based compensation, bonus, incentive compensation, change in
control, deferred compensation, life insurance, termination, severance,
retention, salary continuation, section 125 flexible benefit, educational
assistance, service award, employee tax gross up, vacation and other employee
benefit plans, programs or agreements and (iii) all employment and similar
agreements, in each case other than governmental plans and
arrangements. 

A-12 

End Date   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 10.01(d) . 

Environmental Law   means any
Law in effect on or prior to the Closing Date relating to human health and
safety, pollution or protection of the environment, including the use,
generation, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or
discharge of, or exposure to, any Hazardous Material. 

Environmental Permit   means
any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization
required under any applicable Environmental Law in effect on or prior to the
Closing Date and necessary for or used in connection with the operation of the
applicable Contributed Businesses. 

ERISA   means the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the
applicable regulations promulgated thereunder then in effect. 

Estimated Combined EBITDA  
means the sum of the Estimated NBCU EBITDA and the Estimated Comcast
EBITDA. 

Estimated Comcast EBITDA  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(b). 

Estimated NBCU EBITDA   shall
have the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(b). 

Estimated NBCU Interim Free Cash
Flow   shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.06(b). 

Exchange Act   means the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder. 

Excluded Comcast Assets   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.03(b) . 

Excluded Comcast Intellectual
Property   means (i) all Intellectual Property that is (A) owned by, or
licensed by a third party to, Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any
Contributed Comcast Subsidiary), (B) used, held for use or Contemplated to be
used by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary), and (C) not used, held for use or Contemplated to be used, in each
case, primarily in the Contributed Comcast Businesses, and (ii) the
Intellectual Property set forth in Section 1.01 of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter.  For the avoidance of doubt,  Excluded Comcast Intellectual
Property  (x) includes the Comcast Name and the Comcast Marks and
(y) does not include any and all Intellectual Property set forth, or
required to be set forth, on Section 5.13(e)(i) of the Comcast Disclosure
Letter. 

A-13 

Excluded Comcast Liabilities  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.03(d) . 

Excluded Comcast Technology  
means (i) all Technology that is (A) owned by, or licensed by a third party to,
Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary), (B) used, held for use or Contemplated to be used by Comcast or any
of its Subsidiaries (other than any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary) and (C) not
used, held for use or Contemplated to be used, in each case, primarily in the
Contributed Comcast Businesses, and (ii) the Technology set forth in
Section 1.01 of the Comcast Disclosure Letter. 

Excluded NBCU Assets   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.02(b) . 

Excluded NBCU Liabilities  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
2.02(d) . 

Existing Lease   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 6.19(f) . 

Exploit   means to cause
Exploitation. 

Exploitation   means the
release, exhibition, performance, projection, broadcast, telecast, transmission,
promotion, publicizing, advertisement, rental, lease, licensing, sublicensing,
sale, transfer, disposing of, distribution, subdistribution, commercializing,
merchandising, production, marketing, use, exercise, trading in, turning to
account, dealing with and in and otherwise exploiting any asset or portions
thereof, or any rights therein or relating thereto, including the right to
develop, produce and distribute subsequent productions based
thereon. 

Exploitation Agreements   means
Contracts pursuant to which any Person has acquired, established, developed or
granted any rights to Exploit any portion of the applicable Library or any of
such Library s components. 

Factoring Agreement   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.20(a) . 

FCC   shall have the meaning
set forth in  Section 3.05 . 

FCC Licenses   means permits,
licenses, permissions, franchises, and amendments thereto, issued by a
Governmental Authority pursuant to the Communications Act. 

FCC Order   means an order
adopted, and the full text thereof released, by the FCC granting its consent to
the transfer of control or assignment of the  

A-14 

NBCU
Licenses and the Comcast Licenses, pursuant to appropriate applications filed by
the parties hereto with the FCC as contemplated by this Agreement. 

Financing Costs   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
12.02 . 

Former Contributed Business
Employees   shall have the meaning set forth in the Comcast Employee
Matters Agreement. 

Former NBCU Business
Employees   shall have the meaning set forth in the NBCU Employee Matters
Agreement. 

GE   shall have the meaning set
forth in the Preamble. 

GE Auto Liability Insurance
Program   means the compulsory auto liability insurance program of the GE
Entities, as the same may be amended, modified, terminated, renewed, waived or
otherwise altered from time to time, subject in each case to the restrictions
set forth in  Section 6.06(b)(ii) . 

GE Disclosure Letter   means
the disclosure letter dated as of the date hereof delivered by GE to Newco and
which forms a part of this Agreement. 

GE Entity   shall mean GE or
any of its Affiliates or Subsidiaries (in each case, excluding for this purpose
Newco and Subsidiaries of Newco). 

GE GL Insurance Program   means
the general liability insurance program of the GE Entities, as the same may be
amended, modified, terminated, renewed, waived or otherwise altered from time to
time, subject in each case to the restrictions set forth in  Section 6.06(b)(ii) . 

GE Indemnified Parties   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
11.02(a) . 

GE Intellectual Property  
means (i) all Intellectual Property that is (A) owned by, or licensed by a third
party to, GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity),
(B) used, held for use or Contemplated to be used by GE or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity), and (C) not used, held for use or
Contemplated to be used, in each case, primarily in the NBCU Businesses, and
(ii) the Intellectual Property set forth in Section 1.01 of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter.  For the avoidance of doubt,  GE Intellectual Property  (x)
includes the GE Name and the GE Marks and (y) does not include any and all
Intellectual Property set forth, or required to be set forth, on Section
3.12(e)(i) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter. 

GE Intellectual Property Cross
License Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in   Section
6.12(c)  . 

A-15 

GE LCs   shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 6.07(a). 

GE Name and GE Marks   means
any and all trade names, trademarks, service marks, service names, trade dress,
and logos (other than any Trademarks set forth, or required to be set forth, on
Schedule 3.12(e)(i) of the NBCU Disclosure Letter) that are owned by GE or any
of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) as of the Closing Date or any
derivations thereof, in each case whether alone or in combination with other
words, and including all marks, trade dress, logos, monograms, domain names and
other source identifiers embodying any of the foregoing;  provided ,  however , that, for purposes
of this Agreement, the foregoing trade names, trademarks, service marks, service
names, trade dress, logos, derivations, combinations and embodiments shall be
defined to include only the Trademark rights of GE or any of its Subsidiaries
(other than any NBCU Entity) to the extent, as of the Closing Date that, (i)
registrations or applications for registration in the name of GE or any of its
Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU) have issued or been filed or (ii) GE or any
of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity) has common law rights therein
under applicable Trademark Laws.   For the avoidance of doubt,
 GE Name and GE Marks  includes the Core GE Marks. 

GE Note   shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.06(c). 

GE Technology   means (i) all
Technology that is (A) owned by, or licensed by a third party to, GE or any of
its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU Entity), (B) used, held for use or
Contemplated to be used by GE or any of its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU
Entity), and (C) not used, held for use or Contemplated to be used, in each
case, primarily in the NBCU Businesses, and (ii) the Technology set forth in
Section 1.01 of the NBCU Disclosure Letter. 

GE Transition Services
Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.12(a) . 

GE WC Insurance Program   means
the workers  compensation, domestic or international employers  liability
insurance policies and/or comparable workers  compensation self-insurance, state
or country programs of the GE Entities, in each case, as the same may be
amended, modified, terminated, renewed, waived or otherwise altered from time to
time, subject in each case to the restrictions set forth in  Section 6.06(b)(ii) . 

Governmental Approval   means
the FCC Order and any other authorizations, consents, waivers, orders
constituting approvals and other approvals of any Governmental Authority
including the expiration of any applicable waiting periods associated
therewith. 

A-16 

Governmental Authority   means
any transnational, domestic or foreign federal, state or local government,
political subdivision, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority,
instrumentality, agency, body or commission, self-regulatory organization or any
court, tribunal, or judicial or arbitral body. 

Governmental Order   means any
order (other than an order constituting an approval), writ, judgment,
injunction, decree, stipulation, determination or award entered by or with any
Governmental Authority. 

Hazardous Materials   means (i)
petroleum, petroleum products, by-products or breakdown products, radioactive
materials, asbestos containing materials or polychlorinated biphenyls, (ii) any
pollutant or contaminant or (iii) any chemical or any toxic, radioactive,
ignitable, corrosive, reactive or otherwise hazardous waste, material or
substance, in each case, that is regulated under any Law promulgated by any
applicable Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the
environment. 

HSR Act   means the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the rules
and regulations under such Act. 

Inactive Comcast Business
Employees   shall have the meaning set forth in the Comcast Employee
Matters Agreement. 

Indemnified Party   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
11.04(a) . 

Indemnifying Party   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
11.04(a) . 

Insurance Arrangements   means
all policies of or agreements for insurance and interests in insurance pools and
programs. 

Intellectual Property   means
all intellectual property rights arising under the Laws of the United States or
of any other jurisdiction, including: (i) patents, patent applications
(including patents issued thereon) and statutory invention registrations,
including reissues, divisions, continuations, continuations in part, extensions
and reexaminations thereof, and all rights therein provided by international
treaties or conventions (collectively,   Patents  ), (ii) trademarks,
service marks, trade names, service names, trade dress, logos, monograms, domain
names, domain name locators, and other identifiers of source, including all
goodwill associated therewith, and any and all common law rights, and
registrations and applications for registration thereof, all rights therein
provided by international treaties or conventions, and all reissues, extensions
and renewals of any of the foregoing (collectively,   Trademarks  ), (iii) all rights
in any original works of authorship and/or any part thereof that are within the
scope of any applicable copyright Law, including all rights of authorship, use,
publication,  

A-17 

reproduction,
distribution, performance, moral rights, and rights of ownership of
copyrightable works, and all rights to register and to obtain renewals,
extensions, revivals and resuscitations of any such copyright registrations
(collectively,   Copyrights  ), (iv) trade
secret and confidential and proprietary information, including trade secrets,
confidential processes, compositions, formulas, customer information,
operational data, processing quality control procedures, research and
development studies, engineering information, invention reports, laboratory
notebooks, technical reports, research and development archives, pricing
information and know-how (collectively,   Trade Secrets  ),
(v) database and design rights, and (vi) intellectual property rights
arising from or in respect of Technology. 

Intellectual Property
Contracts   means any and all Contracts relating to Intellectual Property
pursuant to which rights in Intellectual Property are in any manner transferred,
conveyed, granted, licensed, restricted or waived, including Exploitation
Agreements. 

IPO Costs   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 12.02 . 

IRS   means the U.S. Internal
Revenue Service. 

Knowledge of Comcast   means
the actual knowledge of the Persons listed on Section 1.01 of the Comcast
Disclosure Letter after reasonable inquiry. 

Knowledge of NBCU   means the
actual knowledge of the Persons listed on Section 1.01 of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter after reasonable inquiry. 

Law   means any transnational,
domestic or foreign federal, state, local statute, law, ordinance, regulation,
rule, code, order or other requirement or rule of law, including the common
law. 

Liabilities   means any Debt,
liability, claim, demand, expense, commitment or obligation (whether direct or
indirect, absolute or contingent, known or unknown, determined or determinable,
accrued or unaccrued, liquidated or unliquidated, or due or to become due) of
every kind and description and including all costs and expenses related
thereto. 

Library   means, collectively,
all Library Rights and all Library Tangible Assets owned by or licensed to (i)
the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities or (ii) Comcast Transferors or the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as applicable. 

Library Literary Properties  
means all literary, dramatic or other works, screenplays, stories, adaptations,
scripts, treatments, formats, bibles, manuscripts, outlines, scenarios,
characters, concepts, titles, and any and all other literary or dramatic
materials of any kind with respect to the Programs and any  

A-18 

rights
therein in all media now or hereafter devised, including any remake, reissue,
sequel, prequel, series, character, legitimate stage, merchandising and other
derivative, compilation and ancillary rights of every kind, whether now known or
hereafter recognized. 

Library Pictures   means any
and all completed audio, visual and/or audiovisual works to which any (i) NBCU
Transferor or any NBCU Entity or (ii) any Comcast Transferor or any Contributed
Comcast Subsidiary, as applicable, has rights, including any motion pictures,
films, movies-of-the-week, television programs, series, mini-series, pilots,
specials, documentaries, cartoons, compilations, promotional films, trailers and
shorts and any other programs or audio-visual works, whether animated, live
action or both, produced for Exploitation in any form or any medium, whether now
known or hereafter developed (including theatrical, videocassette, videodisc and
other home video, network, free, cable, pay, satellite, syndication, and/or any
other television medium, pay-per-view, video-on-demand, near-video-on-demand,
subscription on-demand, subscription video-on-demand, Internet and other new
media), either within or outside the U.S., in each case whether recorded on
film, videotape, cassette, cartridge, disc or on or by any other means, method,
process or device, whether now known or hereafter
developed.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  Library Pictures  shall
only include those works for which the Intellectual Property contained therein
would otherwise constitute NBCU Intellectual Property or Comcast Intellectual
Property, as applicable. 

Library Rights   means,
collectively, all Programs, Music Rights, Library Literary Properties and
Library Underlying Agreements, including all rights of Copyright contained
therein or derived therefrom, of (i) the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities,
or (ii) the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as
applicable, and as the context requires. 

Library Tangible Assets   means
all physical properties of, or relating to, any Program, including prints,
negatives, duplicating negatives, fine grains, music and sound effects tracks,
master tapes and other duplicating materials of any kind, all various language
dubbed and titled versions, prints and negatives of stills, trailers and
television spots, all promotions and other advertising, marketing and publicity
materials, stock footage, trims, tabs, outtakes, cells, drawings, storyboards,
models, sculptures, puppets, sketches, and continuities, including any of the
foregoing in the possession, custody or control of (i) the NBCU Transferors, or
the NBCU Entities (as to Programs of the NBCU Transferors, or the NBCU Entities)
or (ii) the Comcast Transferors, or the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries (as to
Programs of the Comcast Transferors, or the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries),
or in the possession of their respective assigns or any film laboratories,
storage facilities or other Persons. 

A-19 

Library Underlying Agreements  
means all Contracts with writers, directors, producers, performers, actors,
artists, musicians, animators, voice talent, cinematographers, camera persons or
any other parties relating to the development, preparation or production of any
of the Programs, Library Literary Properties or Music Rights, pursuant to which
(i) the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities or (ii) the Comcast Transferors,
or the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as applicable, has or acquires any
rights in or obligations relating to the Library or any element
thereof. 

Lien   means any mortgage, deed
of trust, pledge, hypothecation, security interest, encumbrance, claim, lien or
charge of any kind. 

Lockbox Account   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section 6.15 . 

Losses   means all losses,
damages, costs, expenses, liabilities, obligations and claims of any kind
(including any Action brought by any Governmental Authority or other Person and
including reasonable costs of investigation and attorneys  fees). 

Material Adverse Effect   means
(x) with respect to a Person, a material adverse effect on the business, assets,
financial condition or operations of such Person and its Subsidiaries, taken as
a whole, or (y) with respect to a Contributed Business, a material adverse
effect on such Contributed Business or the business, assets, financial condition
or operations of such Contributed Business, taken as a whole;  provided ,  however , that, in the case of
clause (x) or (y), any adverse effect to the extent arising out of, resulting
from or attributable to (a) an event or series of events or circumstances
affecting (i) the United States or global economy generally or capital or
financial markets generally, including changes in interest or exchange rates,
(ii) political conditions generally of the United States or any other country or
jurisdiction in which the Contributed Business operates or (iii) any of the
industries generally in which the Contributed Business operates (including labor
strikes, work stoppages or walkouts or other labor disputes, declines in ratings
or declines in costs-per-thousand), (b) the announcement or pendency of
transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreements, (c) any changes in
applicable Law or U.S. GAAP or the enforcement or interpretation thereof, (d)
actions taken with the specific consent of the other parties hereto after the
date of this Agreement, (e) any acts of God, (f) any hostilities, acts of war,
sabotage, terrorism or military actions, or any escalation or worsening of any
such hostilities, act of war, sabotage, terrorism or military actions (except,
with respect to the foregoing clauses (a), (c), (e) and (f), to the extent such
event or series of events, circumstances, changes, acts or occurrences have a
materially disproportionate effect on the applicable Contributed Business
relative to other industry participants), or (g) any failure to meet internal or
published projections, estimates or forecasts of revenues, earnings, or other
measures of financial or operating performance for any period ( provided  that the underlying
causes of such  

A-20 

failures
(subject to the other provisions of this definition) shall not be excluded),
shall not constitute or be deemed to contribute to a Material Adverse Effect,
and otherwise shall not be taken into account in determining whether a Material
Adverse Effect has occurred or would be reasonably likely to occur. 

Material Impact   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
6.05(a) . 

Material NBCU Entities   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
3.02(b) . 

MFN   means a provision of an
Affiliation Agreement or an Exploitation Agreement (the   Subject Agreement  ) which
provides that if one or more Persons not a party to the Subject Agreement are
party to an Affiliation Agreement or an Exploitation Agreement, respectively,
under which such Person or Persons have any other more favorable terms than are
contained in such Subject Agreement, then one or more terms of such Subject
Agreement will be replaced or modified or other consideration will be provided
to reflect the more favorable terms in such Affiliation Agreement or
Exploitation Agreement. 

Multiemployer Plan   means (i)
with respect to employees in the United States, an employee benefit plan
described in Section 3(37), 3(40) or 4063 of ERISA, (ii) with respect to
employees in Canada, a defined benefit pension plan to which more than one
unrelated employer participates and as defined under the provisions of
applicable Canadian, federal or provincial pension standards legislation; or
(iii) with respect to employees not in the United States or Canada, a defined
benefit pension plan to which at least two employers which are not under common
control (as determined consistent with Section 414(b) and (c) of the Code)
and are not Affiliates are required to contribute with respect to its employees,
in each case other than any governmental plan or arrangement. 

Music Rights   means music
synchronization, performance, master, mechanical, publication, videogram and
other music rights to which (i) the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities or
(ii) the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as
applicable has rights and which are contained in any Program. 

Navy Holdco 1   shall have the
meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

Navy Holdco 2   shall have the
meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

Navy Holdco 2 Agreement   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.17 . 

NBCU   shall have the meaning
set forth in the Preamble. 

A-21 

NBCU Assets   means the
Contributed NBCU Assets and the assets of the NBCU Entities. 

NBCU Business Employee   shall
have the meaning set forth in the NBCU Employee Matters Agreement. 

NBCU Businesses   means the
businesses of the NBCU Entities as conducted prior to the date hereof, as of the
date hereof, and as of the Closing. 

NBCU Conversion   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
2.07(a) . 

NBCU Conversion Effective
Time   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.07(a) . 

NBCU Deductible Amount   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
11.01(b) . 

NBCU Disclosure Letter   means
the disclosure letter dated as of the date hereof delivered by NBCU to Newco and
which forms a part of this Agreement. 

NBCU Dividend   shall have the
meaning set forth in Section 2.06(c). 

NBCU Employee Agreement   shall
have the meaning set forth in the NBCU Employee Matters Agreement. 

NBCU Employee Beneficiaries  
shall have the meaning set forth in the NBCU Employee Matters
Agreement. 

NBCU Employee Matters
Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 7.01 . 

NBCU Employee Plans   means the
Employee Plans with respect to which any of the NBCU Transferors, the NBCU
Entities or their respective Affiliates currently has any obligation or
liability, contingent or otherwise, with respect to any NBCU
Employee. 

NBCU Employees   means,
collectively, (i) any current or former officer or employee of any of the NBCU
Entities and (ii) any current or former employee of any Affiliate of any of the
NBCU Entities substantially employed in the NBCU Businesses or providing
services primarily in support of the NBCU Businesses, but in each case in
respect of or solely to the extent relating to employment in the NBCU
Businesses. 

NBCU Entities   means NBCU and
all of the direct or indirect Subsidiaries of NBCU. 

A-22 

NBCU Excluded Insurance
Policies   means those insurance policies or self-insurance programs
listed on  Section 1.01  of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter. 

NBCU Exclusive Insurance
Policies   means all insurance policies or self-insurance programs
acquired directly and exclusively by and in the name of the NBCU Entities or
entered into by any GE Entity exclusively for the benefit of the NBCU Businesses
or any NBCU Entity, other than a NBCU Excluded Insurance Policy. 

NBCU FCC Licenses   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
3.10(c) . 

NBCU Financial Statements  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
3.06(a) . 

NBCU Financing   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 3.23 . 

NBCU Financing Agreements  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.16(a) . 

NBCU Financing Commitment
Letter   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.23 . 

NBCU Intellectual Property  
means the NBCU Owned Intellectual Property and the NBCU Licensed Intellectual
Property.  For the avoidance of doubt,  NBCU Intellectual Property 
shall not include any Intellectual Property of GE and its Subsidiaries (other
than any NBCU Entity) used, held for use or Contemplated to be used by the NBCU
Entities solely as part of services provided by GE and its Subsidiaries (other
than any NBCU Entity) to (i) the NBCU Entities as well as (ii) other
Subsidiaries of GE (other than any NBCU Entity) and/or third
parties. 

NBCU Interim Free Cash Flow  
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.01 of the NBCU Disclosure
Letter. 

NBCU IP Licenses   means all
Intellectual Property Contracts (other than any of the Ancillary Agreements) (i)
which are Assumed NBCU IP Licenses, or (ii) to which any NBCU Entity is a
party. 

NBCU Leased Real Property  
means the Contributed NBCU Leased Property as well as any real property that is
leased by a NBCU Entity. 

NBCU Licensed Intellectual
Property   means all Intellectual Property owned by a third party and
licensed or sublicensed to any of the NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities or
for which any of the NBCU Transferors or  

A-23 

the
NBCU Entities has obtained a covenant not to be sued, in each case, under any
NBCU IP License. 

NBCU Licenses   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 3.10(b) . 

NBCU Material Adverse Effect  
means a Material Adverse Effect on the NBCU Businesses. 

NBCU Minority Interests   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
3.03(b) . 

NBCU Multiemployer Plans  
means any Multiemployer Plans as to which the NBCU Contributed Subsidiaries have
any Liabilities by reason of contributions made with respect to NBCU Employees
but in the case of any such plan for which contributions were made with respect
to employees of the NBCU Transferors or their Affiliates (other than the NBCU
Entities) only to the extent of the Liabilities attributable to the NBCU
Employees and their NBCU Employee Beneficiaries or activities of the NBCU
Businesses. 

NBCU Owned Intellectual
Property   means all Intellectual Property that is (i) Contributed
NBCU Owned Intellectual Property or (ii) owned by any of the NBCU
Entities. 

NBCU Owned Real Property  
means the Contributed NBCU Owned Property as well as any real property owned by
a NBCU Entity. 

NBCU Parent Plans   means the
NBCU Employee Plans which are sponsored or maintained by the NBCU Transferors or
their Affiliates (other than the NBCU Entities) and which do not solely cover
NBCU Employees. 

NBCU Real Properties   means,
collectively, the NBCU Owned Real Property and the NBCU Leased Real
Property. 

NBCU Reference Balance Sheet  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
3.06(a) . 

NBCU Registered IP   means all
Registered IP included in the NBCU Owned Intellectual Property. 

NBCU Related Insurance
Policies   means all insurance policies maintained by any GE Entity for
the benefit of any the NBCU Businesses or any NBCU Entity or otherwise covering
any Contributed NBCU Asset, Assumed NBCU Liability, NBCU Business Employee or
Former NBCU Business Employee, in each case, that is not a NBCU Transferred
Insurance Policy. 

A-24 

NBCU Restructuring   means the
actions set forth on  Section 6.14  of the NBCU
Disclosure Letter. 

NBCU Retention Agreements  
means retention agreements with NBCU Employees that are entered into by any NBCU
Entity or one of its Affiliates after the date hereof and prior to the Closing
Date with the prior written consent of Comcast. 

NBCU Shares   means, prior to
the NBCU Conversion, all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of NBCU and,
following the NBCU Conversion, all of the outstanding membership interests in
NBCU. 

NBCU Subsidiary Plans   means
(i) the NBCU Employee Plans which are sponsored or maintained solely by NBCU
Entities, (ii) the NBCU Employee Plans which solely cover NBCU Employees and
their NBCU Employee Beneficiaries, and (iii) NBCU Multiemployer
Plans. 

NBCU Technology   means all
Technology that is (i) Contributed NBCU Technology or (ii) owned by any of the
NBCU Entities.  For the avoidance of doubt,  NBCU Technology  shall
not include any Technology of GE and its Subsidiaries (other than any NBCU
Entity) used, held for use or Contemplated to be used by the NBCU Entities
solely as part of services provided by GE and its Subsidiaries (other than any
NBCU Entity) to (i) the NBCU Entities as well as (ii) other Subsidiaries of GE
(other than any NBCU Entity) and/or third parties. 

NBCU Transferred Insurance
Policy   means (i) any NBCU Exclusive Insurance Policy acquired and held
directly and exclusively by and in the name of any NBCU Entity and (ii) any NBCU
Exclusive Insurance Policy that is transferred prior to the Closing Date
directly and exclusively to and in the name of any NBCU Entity pursuant to  Section 6.06(d) . 

NBCU Transferors   means,
collectively, GE and the Subsidiaries of GE (other than the NBCU Entities) that,
on or after the date hereof, hold any asset, property or right that is used
primarily or held for use primarily in the NBCU Businesses or have any Liability
arising out of or relating to the Contributed NBCU Assets or the NBCU
Business. 

Neutral Accountant   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
2.10(c) . 

Newco   shall have the meaning
set forth in the Preamble. 

Newco Group   shall have the
meaning set forth in the NBCU Employee Matters Agreement. 

Newco Indemnified Parties  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
11.01(a) . 

A-25 

Newco Membership Interests  
shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals. 

Newco Operating Agreement  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.12(e) . 

Organizational Documents  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.23 . 

Permitted Liens   means the
following Liens: (i) Liens for Taxes, assessments or other governmental charges
or levies that are not yet due or payable or that are being contested in good
faith by appropriate proceedings or that may thereafter be paid without penalty;
(ii) statutory Liens of landlords; (iii) Liens of carriers, warehousemen,
mechanics, materialmen, workmen, repairmen incurred in the ordinary course of
business and on a basis consistent with past practice that are not yet due and
payable; (iv) Liens incurred or deposits made in the ordinary course of
business and on a basis consistent with past practice in connection with
workers  compensation, unemployment insurance or other types of social security;
(v) defects or imperfections of title, easements, covenants, rights-of-way,
restrictions and other similar charges or encumbrances, provided, in each case,
that such Liens do not materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of
business or the use of the property they encumber or materially detract from the
value of the property they encumber; (vi) Liens not created by GE, NBCU or
Comcast or the NBCU Entities or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries that encumber
the underlying fee interest of any NBCU Leased Real Property or Comcast Leased
Real Property or encumber real property for which any of the NBCU Transferors,
NBCU Entities, Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries has
easement rights, subordination or similar agreements relating thereto; (vii)
zoning, building and other generally applicable land use restrictions; (viii)
Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business and on a basis consistent with
past practice securing obligations or liabilities that are not material to the
NBCU Assets or Comcast Assets, respectively; (ix) in the case of Intellectual
Property and Technology, (A) non-exclusive licenses, options to license or
covenants not to assert claims of infringement, misappropriation or other
violation, and (B) exclusive licenses, options to license or covenants not to
assert that are (x) not material or (y) entered into after the date of this
Agreement (but only to the extent that entering into such exclusive arrangement
would not be in violation of  Section 6.01(a)  or  Section 6.01(b) , as applicable, excluding  Section 6.01(a)(i)  or  Section
6.01 (b)(i), as applicable), in each case granted by the NBCU Transferors,
NBCU Entities, Comcast Transferors or Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries or any of
their respective Subsidiaries to third parties; (x) in the case of the Library,
Exploitation Agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business, and
(xi) Liens arising under or in connection with the NBCU Financing or
Alternate Financing, as applicable. 

A-26 

Person   means any natural
person, joint venture, general or limited partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, limited liability partnership, firm, association or
organization or other legal entity. 

Preliminary Initial Strategic
Plan   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 6.27(b) . 

Program   or   Programs   means any and all
Library Pictures, Works in Progress and Unproduced Properties of (i) the
NBCU Transferors and the NBCU Entities or (ii) the Comcast Transferors and
the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, as applicable, and as the context
requires. 

Registered IP   means patents,
patent applications, registered trademarks, registered service marks, domain
name registrations, copyright registrations, applications for the registration
of trademarks, and applications for the registration of copyrights. 

Related Party Comcast
Contract   means any Contract relating to the Contributed Comcast
Businesses with respect to which (i) any Comcast Transferor or any Affiliate of
a Comcast Transferor, other than the Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, on the
one hand, and (ii) any other Comcast Transferor or Contributed Comcast
Subsidiary, on the other hand, are party or otherwise bound. 

Related Party NBCU Contract  
means any Contract relating to the NBCU Businesses with respect to which (i) any
NBCU Transferor, Vivendi or any of their respective Affiliates, other than the
NBCU Entities, on the one hand, and (ii) any other NBCU Transferor or NBCU
Entity, on the other hand, are party or otherwise bound, excluding any Contracts
to which Vivendi or any of its Affiliates is a party and which are on arm s
length terms. 

Relevant Transaction   shall
have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.22(c) . 

Relevant Transaction Debt  
means any Debt (other than capital lease obligations) of an acquired business
that is acquired or assumed by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than
any Subsidiary of Comcast that is not, directly or indirectly, wholly owned by
Comcast) in an acquisition that is a Relevant Transaction, but excludes any Debt
incurred to finance such Relevant Transaction. 

Repatriation Notes   means the
Repatriation Notes as defined in Section 6.14 of the NBCU Disclosure Letter and
issued in accordance therewith. 

A-27 

Representative   of a Person
means the directors, officers, employees, advisors, agents, consultants,
attorneys, accountants, investment bankers or other representatives of such
Person. 

Requesting Party   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section 6.02 . 

SAS   shall have the meaning
set forth in  Section 6.16(b) . 

Securities Act   means the U.
S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder. 

Significant Comcast Contracts  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
5.15(a) . 

Significant NBCU Contracts  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
3.14(a) . 

Software   means any and all
(i) computer programs, including any and all software implementation of
algorithms, models and methodologies, whether in source code, object code, human
readable form or other form, (ii) databases and compilations, including any and
all data and collections of data, whether machine readable or otherwise, (iii)
descriptions, flow charts and other work products used to design, plan, organize
and develop any of the foregoing, screens, user interfaces, report formats,
firmware, development tools, templates, menus, buttons and icons, and (iv) all
documentation including user manuals and other training documentation relating
to any of the foregoing. 

Stations   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 3.10(d) . 

Subsidiary   of any specified
Person means (x) any other Person of which such first Person owns (either
directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries) a majority of the
outstanding Equity Securities or securities carrying a majority of the voting
power in the election of the board of directors or other governing body of such
Person and with respect to which entity such first Person is not otherwise
prohibited contractually or by other legally binding authority from exercising
Control or (y) any other Person with respect to which such first Person acts as
the sole general partner, manager, managing member or trustee (or Persons
performing similar functions). 

Talent Contracts   means
employment, consulting or other similar Contracts with writers, producers,
directors, creators, show runners, actors or other talent. 

Target Combined EBITDA   means
the sum of the Target Comcast EBITDA and the Target NBCU EBITDA. 

A-28 

Target Comcast EBITDA   means
the amount specified in  Section 2.10  of the Comcast
Disclosure Letter. 

Target NBCU EBITDA   means the
amount specified in  Section 2.10  of the NBCU
Disclosure Letter. 

Tax   or   Taxes   shall have the meaning
set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement. 

Tax Matters Agreement   means
the Tax Matters Agreement, dated the date hereof, made by and among GE, NBCU,
Navy Holdco 2, Comcast and Newco. 

Tax Returns   shall have the
meaning set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement. 

Technology   means,
collectively, all technology, designs, formulae, algorithms, procedures,
methods, discoveries, processes, techniques, ideas,
know-how,  research and development, technical data, tools, materials,
specifications, processes, inventions (whether patentable or unpatentable and
whether or not reduced to practice) apparatus, creations, improvements, works of
authorship in any media, confidential, proprietary or non-public information,
and other similar materials, and all recordings, graphs, drawings, reports,
analyses and other writings, and other tangible embodiments of the foregoing in
any form whether or not listed herein, and all related technology, including
Software. 

Third Party Claim   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
11.04(a) . 

Third Party Rights   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section 2.05 . 

TPS Program   shall have the
meaning set forth in  Section 6.20(d) . 

Trademark Transition Period  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.08(a) . 

Trailing EBITDA of the Contributed
Comcast Businesses   means the aggregate EBITDA of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses for the twelve months ending on the last day of the last full fiscal
month of the Contributed Comcast Businesses ending prior to the Closing
Date. 

Trailing EBITDA of NBCU   means
the aggregate EBITDA of the NBCU Entities for the four full fiscal quarters
ending (i) if the Closing Date occurs not more than 45 days after the end of the
last fiscal quarter of NBCU ending prior to the Closing Date, on the last day of
the last full fiscal quarter of NBCU ending immediately prior to the Closing
Date or (ii) if the Closing Date  

A-29 

occurs
more than 45 days after the end of the last fiscal quarter of NBCU ending prior
to the Closing Date, on the last day of the fiscal quarter of NBCU in which the
Closing Date occurs.  In the case of clause (ii) above, the aggregate
EBITDA of the NBCU Entities for the post-Closing portion of the fiscal quarter
in which the Closing occurs will be determined to the extent practicable on the
same basis as if the NBCU Entities continued to operate on a stand-alone basis
throughout such period. 

Transaction Agreements   means
this Agreement and each of the Ancillary Agreements. 

Transferor Account Parties  
shall have the meaning set forth in  Section
6.15 . 

U.S. GAAP   means the generally
accepted accounting principles used in the United States. 

Unproduced Properties   means
those literary, dramatic, or other materials in which (i) the NBCU Transferors
or the NBCU Entities or (ii) the Comcast Transferors or the Contributed Comcast
Subsidiaries, as applicable, has rights and for which development has not been
abandoned as of the date hereof (A) upon which principal photography has
not yet commenced on or prior to the date hereof and (B) which if produced and
completed would otherwise constitute Library
Pictures.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  Unproduced Properties 
shall only include those materials for which the Intellectual Property contained
therein would otherwise constitute NBCU Intellectual Property or Comcast
Intellectual Property, as applicable. 

U.S.   or   United States   means the
United States of America. 

Vivendi   means Vivendi S.A., a
 soci t  anonyme 
organized under the laws of France. 

Vivendi Agreement   shall have
the meaning set forth in  Section
4.01(e) . 

Vivendi SPA   means the Stock
Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 2009 by and between GE and
Vivendi. 

WARN Act   means the Worker
Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988, as the same may be amended
from time to time. 

Works in Progress   means all
audio, visual and/or audiovisual works of any kind or character in which (i) the
NBCU Transferors or the NBCU Entities or (ii) the Comcast Transferors or the
Contributed Comcast Subsidiaries, has rights, (A) for which principal
photography has commenced on or prior to the date hereof, (B) which are in
current production or post-production and have not been  

A-30 

abandoned,
and (C) which are not complete and which, if completed, would otherwise
constitute Library Pictures.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  Works in
Progress  shall only include those works for which the Intellectual Property
contained therein would otherwise constitute NBCU Intellectual Property or
Comcast Intellectual Property, as applicable. 

A-31 

</EX-2.A>

<EX-2.B>
 3
 ex2b.htm

ex2b.htm 

Exhibit
2(b)     

AMENDED
AND RESTATED 

LIMITED
LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT 

OF 

NAVY,
LLC 

DATED
AS OF [_______], 201_ 

THE
TRANSFER OF THE MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS IN THE COMPANY DESCRIBED IN THIS AGREEMENT
IS RESTRICTED AS DESCRIBED HEREIN 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

i 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

      (continued) 

ii 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

      (continued) 

iii 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

      (continued) 

iv 

TABLE
OF CONTENTS 

      (continued) 

Schedule
      7.05 - 

Company
      Tax Principles 

v 

AMENDED
AND RESTATED LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT 

This
AMENDED AND RESTATED LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY AGREEMENT of Navy, LLC, a
Delaware limited liability company (the   Company  ), is made as of  [ ______ ] , 201_, by and among  [ _________ ] ,  [ _________ ] ,  [ _________ ]  (each, an   Initial Comcast Member   and
collectively, the   Initial
Comcast Members  ), Navy Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
  Initial GE Member   or
  HoldCo  ), each other
Person who at any time becomes a Member in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement and the Act, and Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation
(  Comcast  ), and General
Electric Company, a New York corporation (  GE  ). 

RECITALS 

WHEREAS,
the Company was formed on November 12, 2009, by the filing of a Certificate of
Formation (as amended or otherwise modified from time to time, the   Certificate of Formation  )
with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and the adoption of that
certain Limited Liability Company Agreement of the Company dated as of December
1, 2009 by Navy Holdings, Inc., as the initial sole member of the Company (the
  Original LLC
Agreement   

WHEREAS,
pursuant to a Master Agreement dated as of December 3, 2009 (as amended or
otherwise modified from time to time, the   Master Agreement  ) by and
among GE, NBC Universal, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  NBCU  ), Comcast and the
Company, Comcast and GE agreed to contribute (or cause to be contributed)
certain assets and liabilities to the Company; 

WHEREAS,
pursuant to the Master Agreement, in consideration of their respective
contributions, the parties thereto agreed that the Company would issue
Membership Interests in the Company to the Initial Comcast Members and the
Initial GE Member; 

WHEREAS,
pursuant to the Master Agreement, the parties thereto agreed that immediately
after the contributions referred to above are made, the Initial Comcast Members
would purchase from the Initial GE Member a number of Membership Interests such
that, upon the consummation of such purchase, the Comcast Members  aggregate
Percentage Interests would equal 51% and GE s Percentage Interest would equal
49%; and 

WHEREAS,
concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Closing
contemplated by the Master Agreement has been consummated. 

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein
and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which
are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows: 

ARTICLE
1   Definitions 

Section
1.01      .  Defined
Terms.   (a)  In this Agreement, except where the
context otherwise requires: 

Act   means the Delaware
Limited Liability Company Act, 6 Del. C.   18-101,  et seq. , as amended from time
to time. 

Affiliate   means, with respect
to any specified Person, any other Person that, at the time of determination,
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is
controlled by or is under common control with such specified
Person.  Unless otherwise specifically stated, the term  Affiliate 
does not include:  (x) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries when
used with respect to Comcast, GE or HoldCo or any of their respective
Subsidiaries and (y) Comcast, GE or any of their respective Subsidiaries when
used with respect to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.    Affiliated   and   Affiliation   shall have
correlative meanings. 

Agreed Adjustments   shall have
the meaning, and be prepared in accordance with the provisions, set forth in
Exhibit F. 

Agreement   means this Amended
and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement, as it may be amended or
otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with  Section 13.02 . 

Annual Tax Distribution
Amount   means, with respect to a Tax Year, an amount equal to the product
of (x) the aggregate amount of net taxable income and gain allocated to the
Members pursuant to  Section 8.01(d)(i)  in respect
of such Tax Year,  reduced
by  the amount of any deductions of Comcast during such Tax Year as a
result of any tax basis adjustments pursuant to Section 743(b) of the Code
attributable to the transaction set forth in Section 2.04 of the Master
Agreement and (y) the Applicable Tax Rate.  For the avoidance of
doubt, the Annual Tax Distribution Amount shall be calculated without regard to
any allocations pursuant to Sections 8.01(d)(ii) and 8.01(d)(iii) in connection
with the disposition of an asset. 

Applicable Accounting
Method    means the applicable accounting
method by which GE is required, in accordance with GAAP, to account for its
investment in the Company (namely, on a consolidated basis, under the equity
method or under the cost method).  

2 

Applicable Tax Rate   means,
with respect to a Tax Year, the combined federal, state and local income tax
rate (giving effect to the deductibility of state and local income taxes for
federal income tax purposes) that would have applied to the Company during such
Tax Year if it were a corporation for U.S. federal income tax
purposes. 

Appraiser   means any
investment bank that, according to any nationally recognized data provider, was
one of the top ten underwriters of equity offerings by United States issuers in
the United States during the calendar year immediately preceding the year in
which the Appraiser is engaged. 

Available Cash   means all cash
and cash equivalents of the Company and its Subsidiaries in excess of $300
million. 

Back-End Trigger Condition  
means HoldCo is a member of GE s consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax
purposes immediately prior to the exercise of a Roll-Up Right. 

BBN Holdings   means BBN
Holdings, Inc. and any successors thereto. 

Board   means the board of
directors of the Company. 

Business   means (i) the
production, development, publication, distribution, licensing, exploitation and
aggregation of content (on any medium now known or hereafter devised),
including: (A) acquiring, producing, developing, distributing, licensing,
syndicating, marketing and selling content; (B) acquiring, producing,
developing, distributing, licensing, syndicating, marketing and selling news
(including weather), sports, information and all manner of entertainment
programming (including original programming) and other related content and
merchandising relating thereto, including out-of-the-home media platforms ( e.g. , taxicabs); (C)
acquiring, producing, developing, distributing, licensing, syndicating,
marketing and selling motion pictures in theatrical and non-theatrical, home
video/DVD, television, electronic sell-through, PPV, VOD and by any other means;
(D) acquiring, producing, developing, distributing, licensing, marketing and
selling musical compositions, including publishing and recorded music; (E)
providing network television services to affiliated broadcast television
stations; (F) owning, operating and/or investing in television broadcasting
stations including locally programmed cable channels for areas served by NBC
network television stations owned by the Company (other than KNTV and WMAQ); (G)
owning, operating and/or investing in cable/satellite programming networks
(including RSNs); (H) owning and/or operating film and television production
facilities; (I) acquiring, producing, developing, distributing, licensing,
syndicating, marketing and publishing video games; (J) owning, operating,
developing and/or investing in internet websites in order to make content
available on such sites (and similar sites including sites for mobile
access 

3 

and
applications for the delivery of content digitally) and other digital businesses
related to any of the foregoing permitted under clauses (A) through (I) above;
(K) sale of national or local advertising which may include targeted/addressable
or interactive advertising; and (L) acquiring, producing, developing and
presenting live theatrical works; and (ii) the ownership or investment in and/or
operation of theme parks and resorts.    Business   shall include both
businesses conducted on the date hereof and as could reasonably be expected to
be conducted in the future, including any future businesses derived from or that
are successors to existing businesses (including as a result of technological
advances).  It is acknowledged and understood that (x) certain
elements of the Business include and will in the future include functionalities
such as social networking and commerce that are ancillary to the Business ( e.g. , the sale of merchandise
and other media containing content acquired, produced, developed, published,
licensed or exploited by the Business), (y) the business of Fandango.com
includes as a principal element e-commerce ( i.e. , the sale of tickets and
advertising) and (z) the Company may distribute its content on an ad-supported,
subscription or pay-per-use basis. 

Business Day   means a day
ending at 11:59 p.m. (Eastern Time), other than a Saturday, a Sunday or other
day on which commercial banks in New York, New York or Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania are authorized or obligated by Law to close. 

Capital Contributions   means
Initial Capital Contributions and Additional Capital Contributions. 

Capital Markets Activities  
means any activities undertaken in connection with efforts by any Person to
raise for or on behalf of any other Person capital from any public or private
source. 

Change in Tax Law   means any
change in applicable U.S. federal income tax Laws after the date of this
Agreement. 

Closing   has the meaning set
forth in the Master Agreement. 

Closing Date   means the date
of the Closing. 

Code   means the United States
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

Comcast Blackout Period   means
(i) with respect to any fiscal quarter of Comcast, the blackout period
applicable to senior management of Comcast with respect to such fiscal quarter
and (ii) if Comcast furnishes to GE and the Company a written notice signed by
an officer of Comcast stating that, as of the date of such notice, Comcast has
pending or in process a material transaction (including a financing transaction
or a material acquisition (whether such 

4 

acquisition
occurs by way of stock purchase or exchange, asset purchase or exchange, merger,
consolidation or similar transaction) by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries of
the business or a line of business of a Person that is not an Affiliate of
Comcast), the disclosure of which would, in the good faith judgment of Comcast s
board of directors, materially and adversely affect Comcast, the period
commencing on the date on which such notice is given and ending on the earlier
of (A) the date that is 60 days after the date on which such notice was given
and (B) the date on which the material transaction that necessitated such notice
is abandoned or publicly disclosed. 

Comcast De Minimis Business  
means an equity interest in any Person engaged in the video programming network
business that is acquired by Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries (other than the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries) as consideration for commitments made in a
distribution agreement by Comcast s multichannel video distribution business;
 provided  that the total
amount of Comcast s and such Subsidiaries  equity interests in any such Person
shall not exceed 25%. 

Comcast Member   means any
Initial Comcast Member as of the Closing and, thereafter, any of Comcast or any
of its direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiaries that then is a
Member. 

Comcast Permitted Business  
means:  (I) (i) the multichannel video distribution business ( e.g. , the principal business
now conducted by Comcast s Cable Division), by any distribution method (cable,
satellite, wireless, etc.) or technology (analog, digital, etc.) and to any type
of end-user equipment (television, computer, phone, etc.); (ii) Internet access
service ( i.e. , the
principal Internet business now conducted by Comcast s Cable Division) and
Internet portal service ( e.g. , the principal business
now conducted by Comcast s Comcast Interactive Media Division through
comcast.net), including applications and services provided or offered in
conjunction therewith ( e.g. , email, cross-platform
services, games, computer security, photo and file storage, etc.), by any
distribution method (cable, satellite, wireless, etc.) and to any type of
end-user equipment (television, computer, phone, etc.); (iii) Internet
businesses primarily focused on: (A) the aggregation, packaging and distribution
of content ( e.g. , the
principal business now conducted by Comcast s Comcast Interactive Media Division
now known as fancast.com and the provision of authenticated programming), for
Comcast or others, including content downloading; (B) the sale of goods or
services through an Internet interface, including games ( e.g. , amazon.com;
recroom.com; etc.); and (C) applications ( e.g. , maps, concierge
services, social networking, etc. (including the business of Plaxo, Inc.)); (iv)
webhosting and other Internet infrastructure services; (v) voice and data
services, by any distribution method (cable, satellite, wireless, etc.) and to
any type of end-user equipment (television, computer, phone, etc.); (vi) home
and business security services; (vii) the operation and management of sports
teams and event 

5 

venues;
(viii) the food services business; (ix) the ticketing business to events other
than movies, by any distribution method (online or physical); (x) the production
of advertising and the sale of advertising time (including targeted/addressable
and interactive advertising) for Comcast and others (provided that this shall
not include National Advertising), including through Canoe Ventures, LLC (  Canoe  ) and National Cable
Communications LLC (  NCC   (xi) the provision of
content formatting, transmission and distribution services for video content and
advertising for Comcast and others ( e.g. , the business of
thePlatform, Inc. and National Digital Television Center, LLC (i.e., the Comcast
Media Center)); (xii) the provision of technical services, software, databases
and other technology (for Comcast or others) related to the businesses referred
to above, including hardware and software development and licensing ( e.g. , authentication and
other security services) and cross-platform services ( e.g. , comcast.net s iPhone
application); (xiii) (A) the production and distribution of public access,
leased access and local origination programming and other programming required
under the terms of any cable television franchise agreement, (B) the production,
licensing and distribution of video-on-demand programming ( e.g. , Select on Demand) and
(C) the ownership and operation of locally programmed cable channels ( e.g. , Comcast Entertainment
Television, Comcast Hometown Network, CN100 and C2), in each case for carriage
on Comcast s and other multichannel video distributors  systems (other than
locally programmed cable channels for areas served by NBC network broadcast
television stations owned by the Company (other than KNTV and WMAQ)); (xiv) any
business or activity reasonably ancillary to any of the foregoing; and (xv) any
business or activity that represents an evolution over time of any of the
business referred to above; provided that neither clause (I)(xiv) nor (I)(xv)
shall include the ownership of any interest in, or the operation or management
of, any Company Principal Business; (II) the ownership of the following
interests:  (A) Big Ten Network, LLC   4.99% [profit participation];
(B) Canoe   48.5%; (C) Current Media, LLC   10%; (D) Digital Entertainment
Content Ecosystem (DECE), LLC   membership interest; (E) Driver TV LLC   6.5%;
(F) MGM Holdings, Inc.   20%; (G) NHL Network US, L.P.   15.6%; (H) Music Choice
  12.4%; (I) Pittsburgh Cable News Channel LLC  30%; and (J) The MLB Network,
LLC   8.34%; (III) the ownership and operation of the following
interests/businesses:  (A) AutoMallUSA.com, L.L.C.   100%; (B) Comcast
Digital, LLC   100%; (C) In Demand L.L.C.   53.9%; (D) NCC   60%; (E) National
Digital Television Center, LLC and its subsidiaries   100%; (F) Plaxo, Inc.  
100%; (G) thePlatform, Inc. and its subsidiary   97%; and (H) Vehix, Inc.  
100%; (IV) any changes in the ownership of the entities listed in clauses
(II)(A), (C), (E), (G), (H) and (J), provided no such interest shall exceed 25%;
(V) any increase in the ownership of the entities listed in clauses (II)(B) and
(I) and (III)(C), (D) and (G); (VI) the ownership and operation of any assets
acquired in accordance with Section 6.22; (VII) any Comcast De Minimis Business;
(VIII) acting as an affiliate of MyNetwork TV in the Ft. Myers/Naples, Florida
area; (IX) the ownership and operation of websites relating to
Comcast 

6 

Corporation
(e.g., comcast.com, cmcsk.com and cmcsa.com); and (X) ownership of the following
investments of Comcast Interactive Capital, L.P. (Comcast s internal venture
capital arm);  provided 
that the amount of any such investment shall not exceed 25%: Jingle Networks,
JiWire, Oberon Media and SB Nation. 

Comcast Transfer Date   means
the earlier to occur of (x) the date of the closing of the First HoldCo
Redemption Right, if exercised, and (y) the fourth anniversary of the Closing
Date;  provided  that if,
as of the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date, the First HoldCo Redemption
Right has been exercised but not consummated, the  Comcast Transfer Date  shall
be the earlier of (i) the date of the closing of the First HoldCo Redemption
Right and (ii) the date on which the First HoldCo Redemption Right is abandoned
because any required Governmental Approvals cannot be obtained or for any other
reason. 

Commission   means the
Securities and Exchange Commission or any other federal agency at the time
administering the Securities Act. 

Company Auditors   means the
independent certified public accountants of the Company, as may be engaged by
the Company from time to time. 

Company Group   means the
Company, each Subsidiary of the Company immediately after the Closing and each
other Person that is controlled directly or indirectly by the Company
immediately after the Closing. 

Company Principal Businesses  
means: (i) the National Broadcast Network business; (ii) the local broadcast
television business, including locally programmed cable channels for areas
serviced by NBC network television stations owned or operated by the Company
(other than KNTV and WMAQ); (iii) the theme park and resort businesses; (iv) the
video programming network business (including RSNs) ( e.g. , USA, E!, etc.) (it
being the parties intention that this clause (iv) include reference to a
non-linear network (such as FEARnet) which is intended to operate as a
stand-alone programming network with a business plan to operate at a profit
predicated principally on obtaining distribution from multichannel video
distribution providers including Comcast and others, but not include
video-on-demand programming (such as Select on Demand) which is intended to
operate principally as part of Comcast s and/or others  multichannel video
business); (v) the production, sale and distribution of television programming
( e.g. , the principal
business now conducted by NBCU s Universal Media Studios and Universal Cable
Productions and the related business of licensing or distributing television
programming); (vi) the production, sale and distribution of filmed entertainment
( i.e. , motion pictures)
(it being the parties  intention that the use of the terms  production, sale and
distribution  in clauses (v) and (vi) shall have the meanings customarily
ascribed to them in the television production and film production businesses, as
opposed to the multichannel video distribution business); (vii) the sale of
tickets online and the sale of advertising to 

7 

support
such business; and (viii) National Advertising.  For the avoidance of
doubt, it is agreed that the parties intention is that the term Company
Principal Business does not, for the purposes of  Section 10.03(a) , prevent, or for the purposes of  Section 10.06 , include, the conduct by any Person
covered thereby of any business that is a part of any of the enumerated
businesses in clauses (i) through (viii) above unless conducted as part of the
enumerated business itself ( e.g. , operating a website is
not covered by clause (iv) above unless the website is being operated as part of
conducting a video programming network business). 

Company Securities   means any
securities (including debt securities) issued by the Company. 

Control   means, as to any
Person, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and
policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by
contract or otherwise.  The terms   controlled by  ,   controlled  ,   under common control with   and
  controlling   shall have
correlative meanings. 

Corporate Reporting Data    means the data necessary to provide GE the ability to
apply the equity method of accounting (including consolidated trial balance data
supporting balance sheet, statement of operations, members equity, comprehensive
income accounts and reasonable mapping information with respect thereto) with
respect to its investment in the Company.  

Cushion Percentage   means (A)
with respect to the transaction occurring pursuant to  Section 9.02(a) , 20%, and (B) with respect to any
transaction not described in clause (A), (i) if such transaction occurs on or
after the three and one half year anniversary of the Closing Date and before the
fifth anniversary of the Closing Date, 15%, (ii) if such transaction occurs on
or after the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date and before the sixth
anniversary of the Closing Date, 12%, (iii) if such transaction occurs on or
after the sixth anniversary of the Closing Date and before the seventh
anniversary of the Closing Date, 7.5%, and (iv) if such transaction occurs on or
after the seventh anniversary of the Closing Date, 5%. 

Debt   of any Person means (i)
all debt of such Person for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of
property or services (other than trade payables and other similar obligations
incurred in the ordinary course of business), (ii) all obligations of such
Person which are evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or similar instruments,
(iii) all obligations of such Person that have been, or should be, in accordance
with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (iv) all obligations of such Person that
have been, or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as a sale-leaseback
transaction or leveraged lease, (v) all obligations of such Person in respect of
letters of credit or acceptances issued or created for the account of such
Person, (vi) all liabilities secured by any lien 

8 

granted
on assets or properties of such Person, whether or not the obligations secured
thereby have been assumed, and (vii) all direct or indirect guarantees
(including  keep well  arrangements, support agreements and similar agreements)
with respect to Debt of any other Person referred to in clauses (i) through (vi)
of such Person;  provided,
however,  that for the purposes of Sections 4.10(a), 5.02(a)(i),
5.02(a)(iii) and 9.02(c)(ii): 

(A)           Debt
shall not include (1) trade and other ordinary course payables and accrued
expenses arising in the ordinary course of business, (2) deferred compensation,
pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities, (3) take or pay
obligations arising in the ordinary course of business, (4) obligations arising
under the Credit Agreement, dated as of March 2, 1998 (the   Lin Credit Agreement  ),
between General Electric Capital Corporation and Station Venture Holdings, LLC
(the   LLC  ) (as
successor in interest to Lin Television of Texas, L.P.), so long as the
obligations of the Company, NBCU or any of their respective Subsidiaries (other
than the LLC or Station Ventures Holdings, LP or any of their respective
Subsidiaries) arising under the Lin Credit Agreement or any related credit
support, risk of loss or similar arrangement constitute NBCU Excluded
Liabilities (as defined in the Master Agreement) and (5) non-recourse Debt under
any Factoring Agreement; and 

(B)           the
amount of any Debt described in clause (v), (vi) or (vii) shall only be included
to the extent such Debt is consolidated on such Person s balance sheet in
accordance with GAAP. 

Default Recovery Activities  
means the exercise of any rights or remedies in connection with any Capital
Markets Activities, Financing, Insurance, Leasing, Other Financial Services
Activities or Securities Activities (whether such rights or remedies arise under
any agreement relating to such activity, under applicable Law or otherwise),
including any foreclosure, realization or repossession or ownership of any
collateral, business assets or other security for any Financing (including the
equity in any entity or business), Insurance or Other Financial Services
Activities or any property subject to Leasing. 

Depreciation   means, for each
Tax Year, an amount equal to the depreciation, amortization, or other cost
recovery deduction allowable for federal income tax purposes with respect to an
asset for such Tax Year, except that if (a) with respect to any asset the
Gross Asset Value of which differs from its adjusted tax basis for federal
income tax purposes at the beginning of such Tax Year and which difference is
being eliminated by use of the  remedial allocation method  as defined by
Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-3(d), Depreciation for such Tax Year
shall be the amount of book basis recovered for such Tax Year under the rules
prescribed by Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-3(d)(2), and (b) with
respect to any other assets the Gross Asset Value that differs from
its 

9 

adjusted
tax basis for federal income tax purposes at the beginning of such Tax Year,
Depreciation shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to such beginning
Gross Asset Value as the federal income tax depreciation, amortization, or other
cost recovery deduction for such Tax Year bears to such beginning adjusted tax
basis;  provided,
however , in the case of clause (b) above, if the adjusted tax basis for
federal income tax purposes of an asset at the beginning of such Tax Year is
zero, Depreciation shall be determined with reference to such beginning Gross
Asset Value using any reasonable method selected by the Tax Matters Member
unless such method could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on the
Initial GE Member or any of its Affiliates that is material and disproportionate
as to its effect on other Members or their Affiliates, in which case such method
shall not be selected without the consent of the Initial GE Member, which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 

EBITDA   means, other than for
purposes of  Section 9.05(c) , for any period, net
income of any Person and its consolidated Subsidiaries plus or minus, to the
extent included in the calculation of net income for such period, and without
duplication: 

(a)     extraordinary
expenses or losses and unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or losses
(including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the
statement of such consolidated net income for such period, (x) non-cash losses
from dispositions of assets not in the ordinary course of business and
(y) goodwill or intangible asset impairment); 

(b)     any
extraordinary income or gains and any unusual or non-recurring non-cash income
or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in
the statement of such consolidated net income for such period, gains on
dispositions of assets not in the ordinary course of business); 

(c)     restructuring
charges deemed to be one time in nature (excluding charges incurred in the
ordinary course of business), including restructuring charges in connection with
the Transactions (as defined in the NBCU Financing (as defined in the Master
Agreement), the Alternative Financing (as defined in the Master Agreement) and
any amendments, supplements, modifications, extensions, renewals, restatements
or refundings thereof and any indentures, credit facilities, bridge facilities
or commercial paper facilities that replace, refund or refinance any part of the
loans, notes, other credit facilities or commitments thereunder, collectively,
the   Credit
Facilities  ), whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in
the statement of such consolidated net income for such period, solely to the
extent such charges are agreed between NBCU and the lenders under the Credit
Facilities to be added back to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the Credit
Facilities) for purposes of the calculation of Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as
defined in the Credit Facilities) under the Credit Facilities;  provided  that the

10 

aggregate
amount of cash charges permitted to be added back to consolidated net income
under this clause (c) shall not exceed $250 million in any period; 

(d)     transaction
expenses directly related to the Transactions (as defined in the Credit
Facilities) paid by NBCU or its Subsidiaries in accordance with Section 12.02 of
the Master Agreement; 

(e)     net
income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests; 

(f)     income
tax expense or benefit; 

(g)     interest
expense (including intercompany interest expense, and amortization or write-off
of debt issuance costs and commissions, discounts and other fees and charges
associated with Debt but excluding capitalized interest expense) and the net
amount accrued (whether or not actually paid) pursuant to any interest rate
protection agreement during such period (or minus the net amount receivable
(whether or not actually received) during such period); 

(h)     depreciation
and amortization expense and impairment of tangible, intangible assets and
goodwill, including amortization of intangibles, but excluding
(x) amortization expenses relating to film, television or similar
entertainment rights, investment or inventory other than amortization of
adjustments recorded in the application of purchase accounting in connection
with the closing of the Transactions and (y) amortization of programming
distribution rights ( i.e. , launch
support); 

(i)     gain
or loss from the disposition of businesses, assets or investments; 

(j)     equity
in income or loss of unconsolidated investments or associated
companies; 

(k)     interest
(including intercompany interest) and dividend income;  provided  that EBITDA shall
include the amount of cash dividends or distributions received from
unconsolidated investments or associated companies; and 

(l)     foreign
currency gains or losses. 

If
the Company consolidates the earnings of Station Venture Holdings LLC and/or
Station Venture Operations L.P. during any pre-Closing period, the financial
results of such entity/entities shall be excluded from the calculation of EBITDA
for such period. 

If
during any post-Closing period (1) the Company or NBCU, as applicable,
consolidates the earnings of Station Venture Holdings LLC and/or Station Venture
Operations L.P. and (2) the obligations of the Company, NBCU or any
of 

11 

their
respective Subsidiaries (other than Station Venture Holdings LLC and Station
Venture Operations L.P. or any of their respective Subsidiaries) arising under
the Credit Agreement, dated March 2, 1998, between Station Venture Holdings, LLC
(as successor to Lin Television of Texas, L.P.) or any related credit support,
risk of loss or similar arrangements are Excluded NBCU Liabilities (as defined
in the Master Agreement), the financial results of such entity/entities shall be
excluded from the calculation of EBITDA for such period. 

Equity Method Threshold   means
GE s direct or indirect interest in the Company is such that any member of the
GE Group is required, in accordance with GAAP, to account for its investment in
the Company under the equity method of accounting as in effect with respect to
the applicable accounting period. 

Equity Securities   means (i)
any capital stock, partnership interests, limited liability company interests,
units or any other type of equity interest, or other indicia of equity ownership
(including profits interests, other than customary profit participations granted
in the media business) (collectively,   Interests  ), (ii) any security
convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for, with or without
consideration, any Interests (including any option to purchase such convertible
security), (iii) any security carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or
purchase any security described in clause (i) or clause (ii), (iv) any such
warrant or right or (v) any security issued in exchange for, upon conversion of
or with respect to any of the foregoing securities. 

Estimated Tax Distribution
Amount   means, with respect to a calendar quarter, an amount equal to one
quarter of the product of (x) the aggregate amount of net taxable income and
gain estimated by the Tax Matters Member to be allocated to the Members pursuant
to  Section 8.01(d)(i)  in respect of such calendar
year,  reduced by  the
amount of any deductions of Comcast during such Tax Year as a result of any tax
basis adjustments pursuant to Section 743(b) of the Code attributable to the
transaction set forth in Section 2.04 of the Master Agreement, and (y) the
Applicable Tax Rate.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Estimated Tax
Distribution amount shall be calculated without regard to any allocations
pursuant to Sections 8.01(d)(ii) and 8.01(d)(iii) in connection with the
disposition of an asset. 

Excess Amount   means an amount
(not less than zero) equal to (i) 120% of Public Market Value less (ii) [$28.15
billion]  1  . 

Existing Business Activities  
means any business conducted or investment held by GE or any of its Subsidiaries
or contemplated by any existing 

1  This
amount will be increased by the purchase price for any Relevant Transactions (as
defined in the Master Agreement) contributed at Closing, if any. 

12 

contractual
arrangements applicable to GE or its Subsidiaries, on the date of this Agreement
after giving effect to the Closing, as such business may evolve over
time. 

Financial Services Business  
means any activities undertaken principally in connection with or in furtherance
of (i) Capital Markets Activities, (ii) Financing, (iii) Leasing, (iv) Default
Recovery Activities, (v) Other Financial Services Activities, (vi) Securities
Activities or (vii) the sale of Insurance, the conduct of any Insurance
brokerage activities or services or the provision of Insurance advisory
services, business processes or software.  Financial Services Business
also includes any investment or ownership interest in a Person through an
employee benefit or pension plan. 

Financing   means the making
of, entering into, purchase of, or participation in (including syndication or
servicing activities), (i) secured or unsecured loans, conditional sales
agreements, debt instruments or transactions of a similar nature or for similar
purposes, (ii) non-voting preferred equity investments, and (iii) investments as
a limited partner in a partnership or as a member of a limited liability company
in which another Person who is not an Affiliate of the limited partner or member
is a general partner, manager or management member,   or funds of funds in which
GE Capital is the general partner which consist only of investments of the type
referred to in this definition  . 

GAAP    means  :  

(i)              for purposes of    Article 11    hereof, the generally accepted accounting
principles adopted from time to time by an enterprise for financial reporting
purposes, which may refer to U.S. GAAP, International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) GAAP, or other generally accepted accounting principles adopted
by a reporting enterprise.  The parties agree that, in respect of any
period prior to, and as of the Closing Date,  GAAP  refers to U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.  In the event that either GE or
Comcast, or any applicable members of their respective Groups, adopts a new
basis of accounting other than U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,
unless otherwise mutually agreed to in writing by GE and Comcast, all
information required to be prepared and provided pursuant to    Article 11    shall be prepared and provided based on GAAP as
adopted by Comcast for purposes of its reporting requirement  s . 

(ii)           for
purposes other than for   Article 11  
hereof, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 

GE Auditors   means the
independent certified public accountants of GE, as may be engaged by GE from
time to time. 

13 

GE De Minimis Business   means
(i) any minority equity investment by GE or any of its Subsidiaries in any
Person (A) in which GE or its Subsidiaries (x) do not have the right to
designate a majority of the members of the board of directors (or similar
governing body) of such Person, (y) hold less than 25% of the outstanding voting
securities or similar equity interests of such Person and (z) do not manage or
operate the business of such Person or make significant proprietary assets
(including the GE name or brand and any non-public information derived from any
Company Principal Business) available to such Person for use in such Person s
business or (B) in which the amount invested by GE and its Subsidiaries,
collectively, is less than $25 million, (ii) any business activity conducted by
GE or any of its Subsidiaries that is ancillary to the conduct of their
principal businesses, it being understood that the Company Principal Business
will be deemed ancillary to a principal business if the Company Principal
Business is not conducted as a separate profitable business offering and
comprises not more than 20% of the value measured by the net operating profit of
the business activities of which it forms a part, (iii) any other business in
which Company Principal Business is conducted primarily in connection with (x)
the sale, purchase, leasing, financing, licensing, disposition, marketing or
distribution of goods and services that do not constitute Company Principal
Business, (y) the development, design, manufacture, use or application of such
goods and services referred to in clause (x), or (z) other activities incidental
to or provided in connection with the foregoing, including the provision to
actual or potential customers, consumers, end users or the public of news,
technical information or other material that is distributed for the purpose of
promoting demand for such goods or services that do not constitute Company
Principal Business, or of technical support, education, training and servicing
in connection with the provision of such goods or services that do not
constitute Company Principal Business, or (iv) research and development of
intellectual property or technology that could be used in both the Company
Principal Business and in connection with businesses of GE or any of its
Affiliates that do not constitute Company Principal Business. 

GE Group   means GE and each
Person (other than any member of the Company Group) that is an Affiliate of GE
immediately after the Closing. 

GE Public Filings   means GE s
public earnings releases, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, annual reports to
shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to any of the foregoing and any other proxy, information and
registration statements, reports, notices, prospectuses and any other filings
made by GE or any of its Subsidiaries with the Commission or any national
securities exchange. 

Governmental Approval   means
any authorization, consent, waiver, order and approval of any Governmental
Authority, including any applicable waiting periods associated
therewith. 

14 

Governmental Authority   means
any transnational, domestic or foreign federal, state or local government,
political subdivision, governmental, regulatory or administrative authority,
instrumentality, agency, body or commission, self-regulatory organization or any
court, tribunal, or judicial or arbitral body. 

Group   means the GE Group or
the Company Group, as the context requires. 

Gross Asset Value   means with
respect to any asset, the asset s adjusted basis for federal income tax
purposes, except as follows: 

(i)           The
initial Gross Asset Value of any asset contributed by a Member to the Company in
the Initial Capital Contribution and by Comcast or a Comcast Affiliate in any
subsequent contribution shall be the gross fair market value of such asset, as
mutually agreed by Comcast and the Initial GE Member.  If Comcast and
the Initial GE Member are unable to reach agreement as to the initial Gross
Asset Value of any such asset, such amount shall be determined pursuant to a
mutually agreeable appraisal process.  The initial Gross Asset Value
of any other asset contributed by a Member other than Comcast or a Comcast
Affiliate to the Company shall be the gross fair market value of such asset, as
determined by the Tax Matters Member in its reasonable discretion; 

(ii)           The
Gross Asset Value of any asset shall be adjusted to equal its gross fair market
value (taking Section 7701(g) of the Code into account), as determined by
the Tax Matters Member in its reasonable discretion as of the following
times:  (A) the acquisition of an additional Membership Interest in
the Company by any new or existing Member; (B) the making of an Additional
Capital Contribution; (C) the distribution by the Company to a Member of more
than a de minimis amount of the Company s property as consideration for an
interest in the Company; (D) the liquidation of the Company within the
meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(g); and (E) the
withdrawal of a Member from the Company;  provided  that an adjustment
described in clauses (A), (B) and (E) of this paragraph shall be made only if
the Tax Matters Member reasonably determines that such adjustment is necessary
to reflect the relative interests of the Members in the Company; 

(iii)           The
Gross Asset Value of any asset distributed to any Member shall be adjusted to
equal the gross fair market value (taking Section 7701(g) of the Code into
account) of such asset on the date of distribution as determined by the Tax
Matters Member in its reasonable discretion; 

15 

(iv)           The
Gross Asset Value of any asset shall be increased (or decreased) to reflect any
adjustments to the adjusted basis of such asset pursuant to Section 734(b)
or 743(b) of the Code, but only to the extent that such adjustments are taken
into account in determining Capital Accounts pursuant to Treasury Regulations
Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m); and 

(v)           If
the Gross Asset Value of an asset has been determined or adjusted pursuant to
subparagraph (i), (ii) or (iv), such Gross Asset Value shall thereafter be
adjusted by the Depreciation taken into account with respect to such asset, for
purposes of computing Profits and Losses; 

provided, however , that if
the determination by the Tax Matters Member pursuant to clause (i), (ii) or
(iii) could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on the Initial GE
Member or any of its Affiliates that is material and disproportionate as to its
effect on other Members or their Affiliates such determination shall be subject
to the consent of the Initial GE Member, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed. 

HoldCo Agreement   means the
Navy Holdco 2 Agreement the form of which is attached as an exhibit to the
Master Agreement. 

HoldCo Shareholder   means, at
any time, any Person who, at such time, directly owns any HoldCo
Shares. 

HoldCo Shares   means shares of
common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of HoldCo. 

Independent Director   means an
individual meeting the independence tests necessary for service on the audit
committee of a public company listed on any national securities exchange on
which the Company is listed if then listed. 

Insurance   means any product
or service determined to constitute insurance, assurance or reinsurance by the
Laws in effect in any jurisdiction. 

Investment Grade Credit
Rating   means that the Company s senior unsecured long-term Debt is rated
at least BBB- by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services and at least Baa3 by
Moody s Investors Service, Inc.;  provided  that if no such Debt
is outstanding at that time, then such Debt shall be deemed to be rated at those
ratings that the ratings agencies or their successors assign to Debt of the
Company having the hypothetical characteristics of such Debt on a  shadow
rating  or  indicative rating  basis. 

16 

IPO   means the first
underwritten public offering of common Equity Securities of the Company that
results in such common Equity Securities of the Company being publicly
registered and traded. 

Law   means any transnational,
domestic or foreign federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance, regulation,
rule, code, order or other requirement or rule of law, including the common
law. 

Leasing   means the rental,
leasing, or financing under operating leases, finance leases or hire purchase or
rental agreements, of property, whether real, personal, tangible or
intangible. 

LIBOR   means the rate per
annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR from Telerate Successor
Page 3750, as published by Reuters at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on
the date of the commencement of the relevant interest period, as the rate for
dollar deposits with a three-month maturity.  If such rate is not
available at such time for any reason, then   LIBOR   shall be the arithmetic
mean of the rates quoted by three major banks in the City of New York, selected
by the Company, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of
the commencement of the relevant interest period for loans in U.S. dollars to
leading European banks in a principal amount equal to an amount not less than $1
million that is representative for a single transaction in such market at such
time. 

Member   means, at any time,
for so long as it holds any Membership Interests, (i) any Initial Comcast Member
and the Initial GE Member, as applicable, and (ii) any other Person who, after
the Closing, is admitted to the Company as a member in accordance with the terms
of this Agreement.  No Person that is not a Member shall be deemed a
 member  of the Company under the Act. 

Membership Interest   means the
entire limited liability company interest(s) of a Member in the
Company.  A Member s Membership Interests include, but are not limited
to, such Member s share of the Profits and Losses, its rights in its Capital
Account, its right to receive distributions of Company assets, and any and all
of the benefits to which such Member may be entitled as provided in this
Agreement and in the Act, together with the obligations of such Member to comply
with all the provisions of this Agreement and of the Act.  The
Membership Interests are divided into equal proportionate units of limited
liability company interests (including fractional units), with the number of
Membership Interests held by each Member set forth on Schedule 4.01, as amended
from time to time. 

Membership Percentage   means,
with respect to any Member as of any time, the number of Membership Interests
owned by such Member at such time 

17 

divided
by the aggregate number of Membership Interests owned by all Members at such
time. 

Mixed Competing Business
Acquisition   means a transaction involving both an acquisition of or an
investment in a Company Principal Business and an acquisition of or an
investment in a business that is not a Company Principal Business. 

NASDAQ   means the NASDAQ
National Market. 

National Advertising   means
the sale of traditional, linear advertising time ( i.e. , advertising that is not
targeted/addressable or interactive) for advertisements aired on any National
Broadcast Network or video programming network (as such term is used in the
definition of clause (iv) of Company Principal Business).  For the
avoidance of doubt, it is agreed that this definition does not refer to
advertising time that is made available by (i) a National Broadcast Network for
sale by a local broadcast station (or its representatives) for local market
insertion; or (ii) a video programming network for sale by a multichannel video
distributor (or its representatives) for local market insertion. 

National Broadcast Network  
means a provider of television programming through a network of owned and
affiliated local broadcast stations to a substantial portion of the United
States. 

Non-Ordinary Course Related Party
Transaction   means a Related Party Transaction that is not an Ordinary
Course Related Party Transaction.  Examples of Non-Ordinary Course
Related Party Transactions include transactions not within the scope of the
definition of Business or that involve the purchase, sale or lease (not
including licenses of intellectual property) of businesses or
assets. 

Notice Date   means the date
either Comcast or HoldCo, as applicable, receives an Exercise
Notice. 

NYSE   means the New York Stock
Exchange. 

Ordinary Course Related Party
Transaction   means a Related Party Transaction that is within the
ordinary course of business of the Company and its
Subsidiaries.  Examples of Ordinary Course Related Party Transactions
include the entering into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries with Comcast
or any of its Affiliates of programming agreements, affiliation agreements,
agreements with respect to corporate overhead and support services (other than
the Comcast Services Agreement (as defined in the Master Agreement)) and other
commercial agreements of a type that are entered into between content producers
and distributors in the ordinary course of business.  It is understood
that entering into 

18 

agreements
of this type will be considered Ordinary Course Related Party Transactions even
if they relate to new technologies or new types of arrangements that have not
previously been in place between the Company and its Subsidiaries and Comcast
and its Subsidiaries. 

Other Financial Services
Activities   means the offering, sale, distribution or provision, directly
or through any distribution system or channel, of any financial products,
financial services, asset management services, including investments on behalf
of GE s financial services Affiliates purely for financial investment purposes,
investments for the benefit of third party and client accounts, credit card
products or services, vendor financing and trade payables services, back-office
billing, processing, collection and administrative services or products or
services related or ancillary to any of the foregoing. 

Percentage Interest   means, at
any time with respect to a Person who is a Member or a HoldCo Shareholder but is
not HoldCo or the Company, such Person s  aggregate percent membership interest 
divided by the  residual percentage,  in each case calculated at such time,
where: 

(i)            aggregate
percent membership interest  shall mean, with respect to a Person who is a
Member or a HoldCo Shareholder but is not HoldCo or the Company, the sum of (A)
such Person s Membership Percentage and (B) the product of (x) HoldCo s
Membership Percentage and (y) such Person s  HoldCo interest  

(ii)            HoldCo
interest  shall mean, with respect to a HoldCo Shareholder, the number of HoldCo
Shares directly owned by such HoldCo Shareholder divided by the aggregate number
of HoldCo Shares directly owned by all HoldCo Shareholders; and 

(iii)            residual
percentage  shall mean the residual of (A) one minus (B) the product of (x)
HoldCo s Membership Percentage and (y) the Company s  HoldCo
interest.  

For
purposes of this Agreement, (i) reference to  GE s Percentage Interest  shall
include Percentage Interests held by wholly-owned Affiliates of GE other than
HoldCo and (ii) in order to avoid double counting, HoldCo s Percentage Interest
is deemed to be zero. 

Person   means any natural
person, joint venture, general or limited partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, trust, firm, association or organization or other legal
entity. 

Profit   and   Loss   means, for each Tax
Year, an amount equal to the Company s taxable income or loss for such Tax Year,
determined in accordance 

19 

with
Section 703(a) of the Code (for this purpose, all items of income, gain,
loss, or deduction required to be stated separately pursuant to
Section 703(a)(1) of the Code shall be included in taxable income or loss),
but with the following adjustments: 

(i)           Any
income of the Company that is exempt from federal income tax and not otherwise
taken into account in computing Profit or Loss shall be added to such taxable
income or loss; 

(ii)           Any
expenditures of the Company described in Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code
or treated as expenditures described in Section 705(a)(2)(B) of the Code
pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(i) and not
otherwise taken into account in computing Profit or Loss shall be subtracted
from such taxable income or loss; 

(iii)           In
the event Gross Asset Value of any asset of the Company is adjusted pursuant to
subparagraphs (ii), (iii), or (iv) of the definition of Gross Asset Value, the
amount of such adjustment shall be taken into account as gain or loss from the
disposition of such asset for purposes of computing Profit or Loss; 

(iv)           In
lieu of the depreciation, amortization, and other cost recovery deductions taken
into account in computing such taxable income or loss, there shall be taken into
account Depreciation for such Tax Year; 

(v)           Gain
or loss resulting from any disposition of property with respect to which gain or
loss is recognized for federal income tax purposes shall be computed by
reference to the Gross Asset Value of the property disposed of (adjusted for
accumulated Depreciation with respect to such property), notwithstanding that
the adjusted tax basis of such property differs from its Gross Asset Value;
and 

(vi)           Notwithstanding
any other provision of this definition, any items which are specially allocated
pursuant to  Section 8.01(c)  or  12.05(b)  hereof shall not be taken into account in
computing net Profit or net Loss.  The amounts of items of Company
income, gain, loss or deduction available to be specially allocated pursuant to
 Section 8.01(c)  or  12.05(a)  hereof shall be determined by applying rules
analogous to those set forth in subparagraphs (i) through (v)
above. 

Public Market Value   means (i)
prior to an IPO, an amount equal to Fully Distributed Public Market Value and
(ii) following an IPO, the aggregate common equity market value of the Company
based on the average of the daily volume weighted average per share trading
prices of Common Stock on the 

20 

primary
exchange or market on which it trades for the 20 trading days ending on the
second trading day immediately preceding the closing of the applicable purchase
transaction or such other date as provided in this Agreement. 

Public Offering   means an
underwritten public offering of Registrable Securities pursuant to an effective
registration statement under the Securities Act, other than pursuant to a
registration statement on Form S-4 or Form S-8 or any similar or successor
form. 

Qualifying Public Offering  
means any Public Offering that is reasonably expected to yield gross proceeds
that, when aggregated with the gross proceeds from any previous Public
Offerings, equal at least $1.5 billion. 

Qualifying Securities   means
shares of Comcast common stock that are of any class or classes of Comcast s
choosing;  provided  that
shares of such class or classes shall then be listed or traded on a national
securities exchange or quoted on an inter-dealer quotation system. 

Redemption Purchase Price  
means GE s Percentage Interest of the Company being sold by GE, HoldCo and/or
their respective Affiliates, as the case may be, multiplied by an amount equal
to (i) 120% of Public Market Value less (ii) 50% of any Excess
Amount.  An example of the calculation of the Redemption Purchase
Price is set forth on Exhibit A. 

Registrable Securities   means
shares of Common Stock owned by Comcast, GE or any of their respective
Affiliates;  provided 
that Registrable Securities shall not include any such securities received in a
transaction registered under the Securities Act.  As to any particular
securities referred to in the immediately preceding sentence, once issued, such
securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (a) a registration
statement with respect to the sale of such securities shall have become
effective under the Securities Act and such securities shall have been disposed
of in accordance with such registration statement, (b) they shall have been
distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (c)
registration under the Securities Act is not required to permit the immediate
disposition of such securities on any exchange on which such securities are
listed or on any inter-dealer quotation system on which such securities are
quoted;  provided  that,
notwithstanding the foregoing, such securities shall remain Registrable
Securities until such time as the aggregate value of such securities held by
Comcast and its Affiliates or GE and its Affiliates, as the case may be (based
on the average closing sale price of such security on the principal exchange on
which such security is listed or on the principal inter-dealer quotation system
on which such security is quoted during the preceding ten trading days), first
falls below $1 billion, (d) they shall have been otherwise transferred, and new
certificates for them not bearing a legend restricting further transfer shall
have been delivered by the Company and subsequent public 

21 

distribution
of them shall not, in the opinion of counsel to the holders (or in the opinion
of counsel to the Company, which counsel and opinion are reasonably satisfactory
to the holders), require registration of them under the Securities Act, or (e)
they shall have ceased to be outstanding. 

Related Party Transaction  
means any transaction, agreement or arrangement (including any termination of,
or modification of the terms of, any such transaction, agreement or arrangement
other than pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of such transaction,
agreement or arrangement) between (i) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, on
the one hand, and (ii) Comcast or any of its Affiliates, on the other hand,
except:  (A) any transaction, agreement or arrangement entered into
pursuant to the Master Agreement, (B) any transaction, agreement or arrangement
expressly contemplated by the Master Agreement and (C) any renewal or extension
of any such transaction, agreement or arrangement pursuant to and in accordance
with its terms. 

Relevant Time   means, with
respect to a certification provided pursuant to  Section
9.02(a) ,  Section 9.03(b) ,  Section 9.03(c) ,  Section
9.06(a)  or  Section 9.08(b) , the end of the last
day of the most recent Tax Year ended prior to the date of such
certification. 

Roll-Up Purchase Price   means,
with respect to a Roll-Up Right, (x)(A) in the case of any of the Roll-Up Rights
within the meaning of clauses (i) through (iii) of the definition of Roll-Up
Right, the Redemption Purchase Price, (B) in the case of a Roll-Up Right within
the meaning of clause (iv) of the definition of Roll-Up Right, the allocable
portion of Public Market Value and (C) in the case of a Roll-Up Right within the
meaning of clause (v) of the definition of Roll-Up Right, the ROFO Offer Price,
in each case calculated with respect to all of HoldCo s Membership Interests
immediately prior to the exercise of such Roll-Up Right. 

Roll-Up Right   means each of
(i) the First Comcast Purchase Right, (ii) the Fourth Comcast Purchase Right,
(iii) to the extent it would give HoldCo and GE the right to sell all, but not
less than all, of the remainder of GE s Percentage Interest at such time, the
Second HoldCo Redemption Right (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the
Second HoldCo Redemption Right if Comcast waives the limitations on its purchase
obligation pursuant to  Section 9.02(d)  and elects
to purchase the remainder of GE s Percentage Interest at such time), (iv) any
Public Offering Purchase Right that would give Comcast the right to acquire
securities representing all, but not less than all, of GE s Percentage Interest
at such time and (v) any ROFO Offer that would give Comcast the right to acquire
securities representing all, but not less than all, of the remainder of GE s
Percentage Interest at such time. 

22 

Rule 144   means Rule 144 (or
any successor provisions) under the Securities Act. 

Satellite Business    means the business of operating satellites and
provision of satellite communication services and related businesses in the
satellite business sector, including the following GE businesses and/or
investments: Sat-GE Limited, Asia Satellite Telecommunications Holdings Limited,
SatLynx Holdings S.a.r.l., Star One S.A. and Orbcomm, Inc.  

Securities Act   means the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

Securities Activities   means
any activities, functions or services (without regard to where such activities,
functions or services actually occur) subject to any Law governing, regulating
or pertaining to the sale, distribution or underwriting of securities or the
provision of investment management, financial advisory or similar
services. 

Significant Investment   means
an investment with a purchase price in excess of $500 million.  To the
extent that as a result of the investment the consolidated Debt of Comcast would
increase, the purchase price for such investment shall be deemed to include a
 pro rata  portion
(corresponding to the percentage of the business or entity acquired pursuant to
the investment) of the value of such incremental Debt. 

Stand-alone Competing Business
Acquisition   means an acquisition of or an investment in a Company
Principal Business or Company Principal Businesses in a transaction which does
not also involve an acquisition of or an investment in a business that is not a
Company Principal Business. 

Subsidiary   of any specified
Person means (x) any other Person of which such first Person owns (either
directly or through one or more other Subsidiaries) a majority of the
outstanding Equity Securities or securities carrying a majority of the voting
power in the election of the board of directors or other governing body of such
Person and with respect to which entity such first Person is not otherwise
prohibited contractually or by other legally binding authority from exercising
control or (y) any other Person with respect to which such first Person acts as
the sole general partner, manager, managing member or trustee (or Persons
performing similar functions);  provided  that notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, including any sale of HoldCo Shares
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, (i) so long as GE or any of its
Subsidiaries continues to control HoldCo, HoldCo shall be deemed a Subsidiary of
GE, (ii) HoldCo shall not be deemed a Subsidiary of Comcast, the Company or any
of their respective Subsidiaries and (iii) the Company and its Subsidiaries
shall not be deemed to be Subsidiaries of Comcast, GE or HoldCo. 

23 

Tax Matters Agreement   means
the agreement, dated as of December 3, 2009, by and among Comcast, GE,
NBCU, the Company, HoldCo and the other parties that may from time to time
become parties thereto, with respect to certain tax matters, as it may be
amended from time to time in accordance therewith. 

Tax Year   means (i) the fiscal
year of the Company determined pursuant to  Section
7.01  or (ii) if after the date of this Agreement, the taxable year is
required by the Code or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder to be a
period other than the period described in clause (i), then each period that is
the taxable year of the Company determined in accordance with the requirements
of the Code or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder;  provided  that (i) in the case
of a dissolution, Tax Year means the period from the day after the end of the
most recently ended Tax Year until the dissolution of the Company and (ii) for
purposes of making allocations of Profit and Loss, Tax Year means any portion of
a taxable year of the Company to the extent required to comply with
Section 706 of the Code or the Treasury Regulations promulgated
thereunder.  For the avoidance of doubt, Tax Year shall include any
portion of a taxable year of the Company with respect to which the allocation of
Profit and Loss is determined based on a  closing of the books.  

Threshold   means, with respect
to Comcast, Significant Investments in Company Principal Businesses after the
date hereof by Comcast and its Affiliates with an aggregate purchase price of $6
billion;  provided  that
on each anniversary of the date hereof, commencing on the fourth anniversary of
the date hereof, such Threshold shall increase by 5% of the Threshold as in
effect as of immediately prior to such increase. 

Transaction Agreements   has
the meaning set forth in the Master Agreement. 

Transfer   means directly or
indirectly (whether by merger, operation of law or otherwise) to sell, transfer,
assign or otherwise dispose of any direct or indirect economic, voting or other
rights in or to a Membership Interest, including by means of the Transfer of an
interest in a Person that directly or indirectly holds such Membership Interest;
 provided  that a merger
of, an acquisition of Equity Securities in, or a sale of substantially all of
the assets of, either Comcast or GE (or any of their publicly-traded successors,
including any successor by acquisition) with, by or to a third party will not be
deemed to be a Transfer of any Membership Interest or HoldCo
Shares.    Transferred   and   Transferring   shall have
correlative meanings. 

Treasury Regulations   means
the regulations promulgated under the Code as such regulations may be amended
from time to time (including corresponding provisions of succeeding
regulations). 

24 

Weather Channel Business  
means the business conducted by BBN Holdings and its Subsidiaries. 

Weather Channel Stockholders
Agreement   means the Stockholders Agreement among BBN Holdings, BBN
Intermediate Holdings, Inc., BBN Acquisitions, Inc. and Certain Stockholders of
BBN Holdings, Inc. and BBN Intermediate Holdings, Inc., dated as of September
12, 2008, as amended. 

Whole Board   means, at any
time, the total number of Directors (including any vacant seats) comprising the
Board at such time. 

(m)     Each
of the following terms is defined in the Section set forth opposite such
term: 

25 

26 

Section
1.02      .  Other Definitional and
Interpretative Provisions.   The words  hereof ,  herein  and
 hereunder  and words of like import used in this Agreement shall refer to this
Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this
Agreement.  The captions herein are included for convenience of
reference only and shall be ignored in the construction or interpretation
hereof.  References to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules are
to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules of this Agreement unless otherwise
specified.  All Exhibits and Schedules annexed hereto or referred to
herein are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement as if set
forth in full herein.  Any capitalized terms used in any Exhibit or
Schedule but not otherwise defined therein shall have the meaning as defined in
this Agreement.  Any singular term in this Agreement shall be deemed
to include the plural, and any plural term the singular.  Whenever the
words  include ,  includes  or  including  are used in this Agreement, they
shall be deemed to be followed by the words  without limitation , whether or not
they are in fact followed by those words or words of like
import.   Writing ,  written  and comparable terms refer to printing,
typing and other means of reproducing words (including electronic media) in a
visible form.  All references to a particular statute or other Law
shall be deemed to include all rules and regulations thereunder in effect from
time to time.  References to any Person include the successors and
permitted assigns of that Person.  References from or through any date
mean, unless otherwise specified, from and including or through and including,
respectively. 

ARTICLE
2                       

Organizational
Matters and General Provisions 

Section
2.01      .  Formation.   (a)  The
Company was formed as a Delaware limited liability company on November 12, 2009
by the filing of the Certificate of Formation in the office of the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware pursuant to the Act and the adoption of the
Original LLC Agreement.  The Members desire to continue the Company
for the purposes and upon the terms and conditions set forth
herein. 

(b)     The
Company shall initially have one class of interests, which shall have equal
rights and preferences in the assets of the Company except as otherwise
expressly provided herein.  A Membership Interest shall for all
purposes be personal property.  Each Membership Interest shall
constitute a  security  within the meaning of, and governed by, (i) Article 8 of
the Uniform Commercial Code (including Section 8-102(a)(15) thereof) as in
effect from time to time in the State of Delaware, and (ii) Article 8 of the
Uniform Commercial Code of any other applicable jurisdiction that now or
hereafter substantially includes the 1994 revisions to Article 8 thereof as
adopted by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of
Commissioners on Uniform State Laws and approved by the American Bar Association
on February 14, 1995. 

27 

(c)     Upon
the execution and delivery of this Agreement or a counterpart to this Agreement,
each of the Initial Comcast Members shall be admitted, with effect as of the
date hereof, as a Member and, upon the consummation of the transaction described
in Section 2.04 of the Master Agreement, each of the Initial Comcast
Members and the Initial GE Member shall hold a number of Membership Interests
representing the Membership Percentages set forth on Schedule 4.01
hereto.  The Initial Comcast Members and the Initial GE Member each
hereby (i) acknowledges the receipt (either by initial issuance or Transfer of
Membership Interests) on the date hereof of the number of Membership Interests
indicated on Schedule 4.01 hereto, (ii) consents to the Transfer of
Membership Interests from the Initial GE Member to the Initial Comcast Members
in accordance with Section 2.04 of the Master Agreement (which Transfer shall be
deemed exempted from the provisions of  Article 9 
hereof) and (iii) agrees that the Initial Comcast Members are admitted as
Members with respect to such Transferred Membership Interests. 

(d)     This
Agreement amends, restates and supersedes in its entirety the Original LLC
Agreement. 

Section
2.02      .  Name.   The
name of the Company as of the date hereof is  Navy, LLC  and its business shall
be carried on in this name with such variations and changes or in such other
trade names as the Board deems necessary or appropriate.  The Board
shall have the power at any time to change the name of the Company in its sole
discretion.  2   

Section
2.03      .  Principal Place of
Business.   The principal place of business of the Company shall
be located at such location as the Board may determine from time to
time.  The Company may also maintain such other office or offices at
such other locations as the Board may determine from time to time. 

Section
2.04      .  Registered
Agent.   The Company s registered agent and office in Delaware
shall be Comcast Capital Corporation, 1201 N. Market Street, Suite 1000,
Wilmington, Delaware 19801.  At any time, the Board may designate
another registered agent and/or registered office. 

Section
2.05      .  Purpose and Powers of
the Company.   (a)  The Company is formed for the
object and purpose of engaging in any and all lawful activities permitted under
the Act and within the scope of the definition of Business or otherwise
conducted by the Contributed Businesses (as defined in the Master Agreement) as
of the date hereof, without geographic restriction of any kind, as  

2  The
parties intend to change, immediately after the Closing, the name of NBC
Universal, LLC to a different name to be selected and the name of the Company to
 NBC Universal, LLC . 

28 

well
as in any and all other activities ancillary thereto (including extensions or
modifications thereof in light of technological, market or business
developments) or as contemplated by the Transaction Agreements. 

(b)     Subject
to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Company shall have the power
and authority to take any and all actions that limited liability companies may
take under the Act and that are necessary, appropriate, proper, advisable,
incidental or convenient to or for the furtherance of the purposes set forth in
this  Section 2.05 .  Without limiting the
foregoing, the Company may in furtherance of its business and operations carry
out its objectives and accomplish its purposes as principal or agent, directly
or indirectly, alone or with associates, or as a member, stockholder, partner or
participant in any firm, association, trust, corporation, partnership or other
entity. 

(c)     The
Company shall do all things necessary to maintain its limited liability company
existence separate and apart from each Member and any Affiliate of any Member,
including holding regular meetings of the Board and maintaining its books and
records on a current basis separate from that of any Affiliate of the Company or
any other Person. 

Section
2.06      .  Term.   The
term of the Company commenced on the date the Certificate of Formation was filed
in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and shall
continue in full force and effect in perpetuity;  provided  that the Company may
be dissolved in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the
Act. 

Section
2.07      .  Filings; Qualification
in Other Jurisdictions.   The Company shall prepare, following
the execution and delivery of this Agreement, any documents required to be filed
or, in the Board s or an authorized executive officer s view, appropriate for
filing under the Act, and the Company shall cause each such document to be filed
in accordance with the Act, and, to the extent required by Law, to be filed and
recorded, and/or notice thereof to be published, in the appropriate place in
each jurisdiction in which the Company may hereafter establish a place of
business.  The Board may cause or authorize an executive officer to
cause the Company to be qualified or registered under assumed or fictitious name
statutes or similar Laws in any jurisdiction in which the Company transacts
business where the Company is not currently so qualified or
registered.  Each executive officer shall execute, deliver and file
any such documents (and any amendments and/or restatements thereof) necessary
for the Company to accomplish the foregoing.  The Board may appoint
any other authorized persons to execute, deliver and file any such
documents. 

Section
2.08      .  Company
Property.   All property of the Company, both tangible and
intangible, shall be deemed to be owned by the Company as an
entity.  A Member has no interest in specific Company
property. 

29 

Section
2.09      .  Transactions with
Members and Directors.   Subject to the terms and conditions of
this Agreement (including  Section 10.02 ), any
Member or Director may lend money to, borrow money from, act as a surety,
guarantor or endorser for, guarantee or assume one or more obligations of,
provide collateral for, and transact other business with the Company and,
subject to applicable Law and the terms and conditions of this Agreement, shall
have the same rights and obligations with respect to such matter as a Person who
is not a Member or Director, and any Member and the members, shareholders,
partners and Affiliates thereof shall be able to transact business or enter into
agreements with the Company to the fullest extent permissible under the
Act. 

Section
2.10      .  Uncertificated
Membership Interests.   Membership Interests shall be in
uncertificated form. 

ARTICLE
3    Capital
Contributions and Preemptive Rights 

Section
3.01      .  Initial Capital
Contributions.   In connection with the transactions
contemplated by the Master Agreement, the Initial Comcast Members and Initial GE
Member have made the contributions (each of which shall constitute an   Initial Capital Contribution  )
of their respective Contributed Businesses (as defined in the Master Agreement)
at the Closing. 

Section
3.02      .  Additional Capital
Contributions.   (a)  From and after the Closing, no
Member shall be required or permitted to make any additional capital
contributions (other than Initial Capital Contributions) to the Company except
as provided in this  Article 3 .  

(b)     Subject
to Sections   3.07  
and   4.10(a)  ,
in addition to the Initial Capital Contributions, Members may from time to time
make capital contributions to the Company (each, an   Additional Capital
Contribution  ) at such times and in such amounts as the Board may
determine to offer to or accept from the Members. 

Section
3.03      .  Issuance of Membership
Interests.   (a)  No Membership Interests or other
equity interests shall be issued in respect of any Additional Capital
Contribution until such Additional Capital Contribution is actually
made.  All Membership Interests in respect of the Initial Capital
Contributions are hereby duly issued on the date of this Agreement and no
additional Membership Interests shall be issued by the Company after the date of
this Agreement in respect of any Initial Capital Contributions. 

(b)     Subject
to Sections   3.07  
and   4.10(a)  ,
the Board may authorize the Company to issue additional Membership Interests
and/or create and issue new series, types or classes of equity interests in the
Company with such voting  

30 

powers,
full or limited, or no voting powers, and such designations, preferences and
relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications,
limitations or restrictions thereof as the Board may determine and authorize,
obligations, evidences of indebtedness or other securities or interests of the
Company convertible or exchangeable into Membership Interests or other equity
interests in the Company and warrants, options or other rights to purchase or
otherwise acquire Membership Interests or other equity interests in the Company,
in each case to any Person in such amounts and on such terms as so approved by
the Board;  provided 
that any such issuance will be made only in exchange for payment of fair market
value for such interest, as determined in the reasonable good faith judgment of
the Board, and  provided,
further , that an issuance of equity interests in the Company, such as
warrants or rights to acquire Membership Interests, on customary commercial
terms in connection with a bona fide debt financing or other commercial
arrangement need not comply with the requirement set forth in the immediately
preceding proviso so long as such arrangement as a whole has been approved by
the Board.  The Company may issue whole or fractional Membership
Interests or other equity interests in the Company.  In the event the
Company issues any equity interests other than Membership Interests, this
Agreement will be appropriately amended to reflect the terms of such other
equity interests and the issuance thereof. 

Section
3.04      .  Withdrawal of
Capital.   (a)  No Member shall be entitled to
withdraw any part of its Capital Contributions or to receive any distribution
from the Company, except as expressly provided herein.  Under
circumstances requiring the return of any Capital Contribution, no Member shall
have the right to demand or receive property other than cash.  No
Member shall have the right to cause the sale of any Company
asset.  No Member shall have any right to receive any salary or draw
with respect to its Capital Contributions or its Capital Account or for services
rendered on behalf of the Company or otherwise in its capacity as a
Member. 

(b)     No
Member shall have any liability for the return of the Capital Contributions of
any other Member.  Except as otherwise required by Law, no Member
shall be required to make up a negative balance in its Capital
Account.  No Member shall have priority over any other Member either
as to the return of the amount of such Member s Capital Contributions or as to
any allocation of any item of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit of the
Company (except to the extent granted by Company Securities hereinafter approved
by the Board pursuant to  Section 3.03(b) , subject
to   Section
4.10(a)  ). 

Section
3.05      .  Capital
Accounts.  

(a)     A
capital account (a   Capital
Account  ) shall be maintained for each Member in accordance with the
requirements of Section 704(b) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations
promulgated thereunder.  The Capital Account of  

31 

each
such Member shall be equal to the amount of the Capital Contributions made by
such Member in exchange for such Member s Membership Interests, and thereafter
adjusted as follows: 

(i)      increased  by the Additional
Capital Contributions made by such Member after the date of this Agreement with
respect to such Membership Interests; 

(ii)      increased  by items of income
or gain which are allocated to such Member with respect to such Membership
Interest under  Article 8  and  Article 12 ; 

(iii)      decreased  by the items of
loss and deduction which are allocated to the Member in respect of such
Membership Interests under  Article 8  and  Article 12 ; and 

(iv)      decreased  by the amount of
any cash and the Gross Asset Value of any asset of the Company distributed to
such Member in respect of such Membership Interests (net of any liability
assumed by the Member or to which the distributed property is
subject). 

(b)     Upon
a Transfer of any Membership Interest in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, the transferee Member shall succeed to the Capital Account of the
transferor which is attributable to such Membership Interest. 

(c)     The
foregoing provisions and the other provisions of this Agreement relating to the
maintenance of Capital Accounts shall be applied in accordance with Treasury
Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b) and 1.704-2. 

Section
3.06      .  No
Interest.   No interest shall be paid on Capital Contributions
or on the balance in a Member s Capital Account. 

Section
3.07      .  Preemptive
Rights.   (a)  The Company shall give Comcast and
HoldCo written notice (an   Issuance Notice  ) of any
proposed issuance by the Company of any Company Securities at least 20 Business
Days prior to the proposed issuance date.  The Issuance Notice shall
specify the price at which such Company Securities are to be issued and the
other material terms of the issuance (including the terms of the Company
Securities proposed to be issued).  Subject to Sections  3.07(f)  and 4.10(a)(viii), each of Comcast and HoldCo
shall be entitled to purchase (or to cause its Subsidiaries to purchase or, in
the case of HoldCo, to assign to GE or its Subsidiaries the right to purchase)
up to its respective Percentage Interest (or, in the case of HoldCo, GE s
Percentage Interest) of the Company Securities proposed to be issued, at the
price and on the terms specified in the Issuance Notice;  provided  that if any HoldCo
Shares have previously been sold to the Company in accordance with the terms of
this  

32 

Agreement,
neither HoldCo nor any of its Subsidiaries shall purchase any such Company
Securities. 

(b)     Subject
to  Section 3.07(a) , if Comcast or HoldCo desires to
purchase or to have any of its Affiliates purchase any or all of its Percentage
Interest (or, in the case of HoldCo, GE s Percentage Interest) of the Company
Securities specified in the Issuance Notice, it shall deliver a written notice
to the Company (each a   Preemptive Rights Exercise
Notice  ) of its election to purchase such Company Securities within ten
Business Days of receipt of the Issuance Notice.  The Preemptive
Rights Exercise Notice shall specify the number (or amount) of Company
Securities to be purchased by such party or its Affiliates and shall constitute
exercise by such party of its rights under this   Section
3.07   and a binding agreement of such party or such party s applicable
Affiliates to purchase, at the price and on the terms specified in the Issuance
Notice, the number of shares (or amount) of Company Securities specified in the
Preemptive Rights Exercise Notice with such purchase to be consummated as
promptly as reasonably practicable.  If, at the termination of such
ten Business-Day period, Comcast or HoldCo shall not have delivered a Preemptive
Rights Exercise Notice to the Company, such party shall be deemed to have waived
all of its rights under this   Section
3.07   with respect to the purchase of such Company
Securities.  Promptly following the termination of such ten Business
Day period, the Company shall deliver to each of Comcast and HoldCo a copy of
any Preemptive Rights Exercise Notice it has received from the other
party. 

(c)     If
Comcast or HoldCo fails to exercise its preemptive rights under this   Section
3.07   or elects to exercise such rights with respect to less than its
Percentage Interest (or, in the case of HoldCo, GE s Percentage Interest) of the
issuance and the other party has exercised its rights under this   Section
3.07   with respect to its entire Percentage Interest, the other party
shall be entitled to purchase from the Company any or all of the remaining
portion of the issuance. 

(d)     Subject
to  Section 4.10(a)(viii) , the Company shall have 90
days from the date of the Issuance Notice to consummate the proposed issuance of
any or all of such Company Securities that Comcast or HoldCo have not elected to
purchase at a price equal to or greater than the price specified in the Issuance
Notice and otherwise upon terms that are not less favorable to the Company than
those specified in the Issuance Notice;  provided  that, if such
issuance is subject to regulatory approval, such 90-day period shall be extended
until the expiration of five Business Days after all such approvals have been
received, but in no event later than 180 days from the date of the Issuance
Notice.  If the Company proposes to issue any such Company Securities
after such 90-day (or longer, as permitted by the preceding sentence) period, it
shall again comply with the procedures set forth in this   Section
3.07  . 

33 

(e)     At
the consummation of the issuance of such Company Securities, subject to  Section 2.10 , the Company shall, if necessary or
desirable, issue certificates or other appropriate instruments representing the
Company Securities to be purchased by each party exercising preemptive rights
pursuant to this   Section
3.07   registered in the name of such party, against payment by such
party of the purchase price for such Company Securities in accordance with the
terms and conditions as specified in the Issuance Notice. 

(f)     Notwithstanding
the foregoing, neither Comcast nor HoldCo shall be entitled to purchase Company
Securities as contemplated by this   Section
3.07   in connection with issuances of Company Securities (i) to
employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to employee benefit
plans or arrangements approved by the Board (including upon the exercise of
employee stock options granted pursuant to any such plans or arrangements), (ii)
in connection with any bona fide, arm s length restructuring or refinancing of
outstanding debt of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (iii) as
consideration in a bona fide, arm s-length direct or indirect merger,
acquisition or similar transaction, (iv) pursuant to an IPO or (v) that are
Equity Securities as described in the second proviso of  Section 3.03(b) .  The Company shall not be
obligated to consummate any proposed issuance of Company Securities, nor be
liable to any Member if the Company has not consummated any proposed issuance of
Company Securities, pursuant to this   Section
3.07   for whatever reason, regardless of whether it shall have
delivered an Issuance Notice or received any Preemptive Rights Exercise Notices
in respect of such proposed issuance. 

(g)     If
GE or any of its Affiliates (other than HoldCo or any of its Subsidiaries)
acquires Membership Interests pursuant to the exercise of HoldCo s preemptive
rights under this   Section
3.07  , notwithstanding any provision set forth in this Agreement that
GE only sell or cause to be sold HoldCo Shares (as opposed to Membership
Interests) in connection with a particular transaction, GE will be permitted
and, if such provision requires GE to sell or cause to be sold securities
representing the remainder of its Percentage Interest, required to sell such
Membership Interests in connection with such transaction. 

(h)     This
  Section
3.07   shall terminate upon an IPO. 

ARTICLE
4    Certain
Rights and Obligations of Members 

Section
4.01      .  Members.   The
Members of the Company and the HoldCo Shareholders, and their respective numbers
of Membership Interests, Membership Percentages, Percentage Interests, initial
Capital Account balances, share of Profits and Losses, each as applicable, and
addresses and other contact information for purposes of  Section 13.12 , are listed on Schedule 4.01 attached
hereto.  The Company shall amend Schedule 4.01 from time to time
promptly  

34 

following
any changes in any of such information in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement.  No Person may be a Member without the ownership of a
Membership Interest.  The Members shall have only such rights and
powers as are granted to them pursuant to the express terms of this Agreement
and the Act. 

Section
4.02      .  No Action on Behalf of
the Company; No Dissent Rights.   No Member (in its capacity as
such) shall, without the prior written approval of the Board, have any authority
to take any action on behalf of or in the name of the Company, or to enter into
any commitment or obligation binding upon the Company, except for actions
expressly authorized by the terms of this Agreement.  No Member (in
its capacity as such) shall be entitled to any rights to dissent or seek
appraisal with respect to any transaction, including the merger or consolidation
of the Company with any Person (but, for the avoidance of doubt, HoldCo shall
have consent rights to the extent set forth in   Section
4.10(a)  ). 

Section
4.03      .  No Right to
Withdraw.   Except in connection with the Transfer of Membership
Interests in accordance with the terms of this Agreement such that the
Transferring Member no longer holds any Membership Interests, no Member shall
have any right to voluntarily resign or otherwise withdraw from the Company
without the prior written consent of the Company and each of Comcast and
HoldCo.  A resigning Member shall only be entitled to receive amounts
approved by the Board on the terms and conditions set forth by such
Board.  A resigning Member shall not be entitled to a distribution of
the fair value of its Membership Interests under Section 18-604 of the
Act. 

Section
4.04      .  Member
Meetings.   A meeting of the Members for any purpose or purposes
may be called at any time by the Board.  At a meeting, no business
shall be transacted and no action shall be taken other than that stated in the
notice of the meeting unless all Comcast Members and HoldCo are present at such
meeting and agree that other business not stated in the notice of the meeting
can be transacted. 

Section
4.05      .  Notice of
Meetings.   Written notice stating the place, day and hour of
every meeting of the Members and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting
is called shall be mailed not less than five nor more than 15 Business Days
before the date of the meeting (or if sent by facsimile, not less than five
Business Days before the date of the meeting), in either case to each Member
entitled to vote at such meeting, at its address maintained in the records of
the Company by the Company s Secretary.  Such further notice shall be
given as may be required by Law, but meetings may be held without notice if all
the Members entitled to vote at the meeting are present in person or represented
by proxy or if notice is waived in writing by those not present, either before
or after the meeting.  Presence at a meeting by a Member shall
constitute a waiver of any deficiency of notice, except when a Member attends
the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the
meeting, to the transaction of any  

35 

business
because the meeting is not called or convened in accordance with this
Agreement. 

Section
4.06      .  Quorum; Telephonic
Meetings.   (a)  Provided that notice of the meeting
has been given in accordance with  Section 4.05 ,
Members holding a majority of the outstanding Membership Interests (including,
subject to the last sentence of this  Section 4.06 ,
HoldCo) entitled to vote with respect to the business to be transacted, who
shall be present or represented by proxy at any meeting duly called, shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.  If less than a
quorum shall be in attendance at the time for which a meeting shall have been
called, the meeting may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of the
Members present or represented by proxy and the Company shall promptly give
notice of when the meeting will be reconvened.  If a meeting is
adjourned due to a lack of a quorum, and the sole reason for such lack was the
failure of HoldCo to be present, then, if the reconvened meeting is held at
least 24 hours after the meeting at which a quorum was not present, then at such
reconvened meeting, a quorum shall consist of Members holding a majority of the
outstanding Membership Interests entitled to vote with respect to the business
to be transacted, irrespective of whether HoldCo is present at such
meeting. 

(b)     Members
may participate in meetings of the Members by means of conference telephone or
similar communications equipment by means of which all Persons participating in
the meeting can hear each other.  Participation in a telephonic
meeting pursuant to this  Section 4.06(b)  shall
constitute presence at such meeting for purposes of  Section 4.06(a)  and shall constitute a waiver of any
deficiency of notice, except when a Member attends the meeting for the express
purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any
business because the meeting is not called or convened in accordance with this
Agreement. 

Section
4.07      .  Voting.   (a)  At
any meeting of the Members, each Member entitled to vote on any matter coming
before the meeting shall, as to such matter, have a vote, in person, by
telephone or by proxy, equal to the number of Membership Interests held in its
name on the relevant record date established pursuant to  Section 4.09 .  All Membership Interests
shall constitute a single class and group of Equity Securities of the Company
and the holders of Membership Interests shall vote together as a single class
and group of Members. 

(b)     When
a quorum is present, the affirmative vote or consent of Members holding a
majority of the outstanding Membership Interests present in person or
represented by proxy at a duly called meeting and entitled to vote on the
subject matter shall constitute the act of the Members.  Every proxy
shall be in writing, dated and signed by the Member entitled to vote or its duly
authorized attorney-in-fact. 

36 

(c)     Except
as otherwise provided in this Agreement in respect of any class or series of
interests in the Company created and issued after the date of this Agreement in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, no class or series of such
interests, other than the Membership Interests, shall have any voting rights
whatsoever, and no Member shall have any right to vote with respect to any
business or matter to be voted or acted upon by the Members by virtue of its
ownership of any such interests in the Company other than the Membership
Interests. 

Section
4.08      .  Action Without a
Meeting.   Notwithstanding  Section
4.07(b) , on any matter requiring an approval or consent of Members under
this Agreement or the Act at a meeting of Members, the Members may take such
action without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote if a consent
or consents in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by
all of the Members entitled to vote thereon. 

Section
4.09      .  Record
Date.   For the purpose of determining Members entitled to
notice of or to vote at any meeting of Members, or entitled to receive a payment
of any kind, or in order to make a determination of Members for any other proper
purpose, the Board may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such
determination of Members, such date in any case to be not more than 70 days
prior to the date on which the particular meeting or action, requiring such
determination of such Members, is to be held or taken.  If no record
date is fixed for the determination of Members entitled to notice of or to vote
at a meeting of Members, or Members entitled to receive payment of a
distribution, the date on which notices of the meeting are mailed or faxed or
the date on which the resolution of the Board declaring such distribution is
adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of
Members.  When a determination of Members entitled to vote at any
meeting of Members has been made as provided in this  Section 4.09 , such determination shall apply to any
adjournment thereof unless the Board fixes a new record date, which it shall do
if the meeting is adjourned to a date more than 120 days after the date fixed
for the original meeting. 

Section
4.10      .  Member Approval
Rights.   (a)  Except as expressly contemplated by
this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements, the Company shall
take no action (including any action by the Board or any committee of the Board)
after the date hereof with respect to any of the following matters without the
prior written consent of HoldCo, for so long as GE s Percentage Interest is at
least 20% (calculated in accordance with  Section
4.10(d) ): 

(i)     any
acquisition of, or merger, consolidation, reorganization or other business
combination involving, the Company which results in a  

37 

Member
and its Affiliates having aggregate Percentage Interests greater than the
aggregate Percentage Interests of the Comcast Members; 

(ii)     any
acquisition (whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise) of Equity Securities
or any other investment in any third-party business (including through a
purchase of assets) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries such that after
giving effect to such acquisition or other third-party investment the Company
and its Subsidiaries will have made acquisitions and third-party investments
with an aggregate purchase price in excess of $500 million (it being understood
that, to the extent that as a result of any such acquisition or other
third-party investment the consolidated Debt of the Company increased or will
increase, the purchase price for such acquisition or other third-party
investment shall be deemed to have included or include a  pro rata  portion
(corresponding to the percentage of the business or entity acquired pursuant to
such acquisition or other third-party investment) of the value of such
incremental Debt);  provided  that if (x) Comcast,
GE or any of their respective Subsidiaries agreed, prior to the date of this
Agreement, to any acquisition of Equity Securities or other investment in any
third-party business in accordance with the provisions of the Master Agreement,
(y) such acquisition or other third-party investment is not consummated until
after the date of this Agreement and (z) the right to acquire such Equity
Securities or other third-party investment is contributed to the Company or any
of its Subsidiaries in accordance with the terms of the Master Agreement, then
the purchase price for such acquisition or other third-party investment shall be
disregarded when determining whether such $500 million threshold has been
exceeded; 

(iii)     to
the fullest extent permitted by Law, any liquidation, dissolution, winding up,
commencement of or consent to bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or similar
proceedings with respect to the Company or any of its principal
Subsidiaries; 

(iv)     any
material expansion of the purpose of the Company (including any material
expansion of the scope of the activities included in the definition of Business
as of the date hereof) as set forth in  Section
2.05 ; 

(v)     (x)
any declaration of any dividend on or the making of any distribution (other than
distributions by the Company pursuant to  Section
8.02(a)(i) ) with respect to, or (y) the redemption, repurchase or other
acquisition of, any Equity Securities of the Company;  provided  that the consent
right of HoldCo pursuant to subclause (x) of this clause (v) shall not be
required (A) if the Second HoldCo Redemption Right is not exercised, from and
after the expiration of the exercise period applicable  

38 

to
such HoldCo Redemption Right or (B) if such HoldCo Redemption Right is
exercised, from and after the closing in respect of such HoldCo Redemption
Right; 

(vi)     any
creation, incurrence, or assumption of Debt by the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries, including the Debt of any Subsidiary acquired by the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries that will be included in the consolidated Debt of the
Company, in an amount such that, after giving effect to such creation,
incurrence or assumption, the ratio of the Company s consolidated Debt to the
Company s consolidated EBITDA for the most recent twelve month period for which
consolidated EBITDA has been determined as of the date of creation, incurrence
or assumption of such Debt would exceed 2.75; 

(vii)     any
loans or advances to or guarantees for the benefit of any Person (other than a
wholly-owned Subsidiary), other than (A) any loan, advance or guarantee in the
ordinary course of business of the Company and its Subsidiaries and (B) any
loan, advance or guarantee that does not exceed $150 million individually;
or 

(viii)     any
creation, authorization, increase in the authorized amount or issuance of any
Equity Securities of the Company other than issuances of shares of Common Stock
in a Public Offering effected after the Comcast Transfer Date. 

(b)     Prior
to the three and one half year anniversary of the Closing Date, the Company
shall take no action (including any action by the Board or any committee of the
Board) after the date hereof with respect to the appointment of the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company without the prior written consent of HoldCo;
 provided  that approval
of HoldCo shall not be required to appoint a new Chief Executive Officer if in
connection therewith a majority of the Board has previously approved two
candidates but neither of such candidates has been appointed by virtue of the
failure of HoldCo to approve such candidate. 

(c)     For
the avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding any other provision of this
Agreement and any duty otherwise existing at Law or in equity, to the fullest
extent permitted by Law, in connection with the exercise of consent rights
pursuant to  Section 4.10(a) , HoldCo may consider
its own best interests (or that of its Affiliates) when determining whether or
not to consent and shall in no event be deemed to have any duty (including any
fiduciary duty) to any Members or to the Company with respect to any such
consent or withholding of consent.  Except as otherwise required by
Law, the Company shall not be required to hold any meeting of Members or obtain
any action by written consent of the Members in order for consents obtained
directly by the Company from HoldCo to be valid for purposes of  Section 4.10(a) . 

39 

(d)     For
the purposes of calculating GE s Percentage Interest for the purposes of the
thresholds set forth in Sections     4.10(a)  ,     5.01(b)  ,
  5.01(c)  ,
  5.01(j)  ,
  5.02  ,
  5.10  ,
 9.01(b)(iv) (x) and   10.06  ,
newly issued primary shares of Common Stock issued in Public Offerings effected
after the Comcast Transfer Date shall be disregarded. 

Section
4.11      .  Reimbursements.   To
the extent not inconsistent with or otherwise addressed by another provision of
any Transaction Agreement to which a Member is a party, the Company shall
reimburse the Members for all ordinary and necessary out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by the Members on behalf of the Company but only if such expenses were
authorized by or under the authority of the Board.  Such reimbursement
shall not be deemed to constitute a distribution or return of capital to any
Member. 

Section
4.12      .  Partition.   Each
Member waives any and all rights that it may have to maintain an action for
partition of the Company s property. 

Section
4.13      .  Liability.   Except
as otherwise set forth herein or in the Master Agreement, or as required by the
Act, the debts, obligations and liabilities of the Company, whether arising in
contract, tort or otherwise, shall be solely the debts, obligations and
liabilities of the Company, and no Member, Director or Company officer shall be
obligated personally for any such debt, obligation or liability of the Company
or for any losses of the Company solely by reason of being a Member or acting as
a Director or Company officer. 

ARTICLE
5    Board
and Officers 

Section
5.01      .  Board.   (a)  The
property, affairs and business of the Company shall be managed by or under the
direction of the Board, except as otherwise expressly provided in this
Agreement.  The Board shall be made up of the number of individuals
(who need not be Members) (each, a   Director  ) as specified in
this Agreement.  Each Director shall be a  manager  (as such term is
defined in the Act) of the Company but, notwithstanding the foregoing, no
Director shall have any rights or powers beyond the rights and powers granted to
such Director in this Agreement. 

(b)     Prior
to an IPO, the Board shall be made up of five Directors and: 

(i)     HoldCo
shall have the right to designate a number of Directors equal to (x) for so long
as GE s Percentage Interest is at least 20%, two Directors and (y) for so long
as GE s Percentage Interest is at least 10% but less than 20%, one Director;
and 

40 

(ii)     the
Comcast Members shall collectively have the right to designate the remaining
Directors. 

(c)     Following
an IPO, the Board shall consist of the number of Directors determined by the
Board from time to time.  Following an IPO, for so long as the Comcast
Members  aggregate Percentage Interests are greater than GE s Percentage
Interest, each of GE and each of the Comcast Members agrees to vote, or cause to
be voted, its shares of Common Stock and any shares of Common Stock held by any
of its Subsidiaries in any election of Directors in favor of any slate of
Directors proposed by the Company consisting of: 

(i)     at
least three Independent Directors (who shall be designated by the
Board), 

(ii)     for
so long as GE s Percentage Interest is at least 10%, a number of Directors
designated by GE equal to the product of GE s Percentage Interest multiplied by
the number of Directors constituting the Whole Board (rounded up or down to the
nearest whole number of Directors but which number shall not be less than one),
and 

(iii)     the
remaining Directors designated collectively by the Comcast Members, which number
of Directors shall not be fewer than the minimum number of Directors necessary
to constitute a majority of the Whole Board. 

(d)     The
Comcast Members and HoldCo shall be entitled to select their respective
designees to the Board in their discretion from the management of their ultimate
parent Affiliate.  The Directors designated by the Comcast Members
shall initially be Brian L. Roberts, Stephen B. Burke and Michael J. Angelakis,
and the Directors designated by HoldCo shall initially be Jeffrey R. Immelt and
Keith Sherin. 

(e)     Each
Director shall hold such position until his or her successor is appointed or
elected or until his or her earlier death, disability, resignation or
removal. 

(f)     Subject
to the consent rights set forth in   Section
4.10(a)  , the Board, by taking action in accordance with this  Article 5 , shall have the power, discretion and
authority on behalf and in the name of the Company to carry out any and all of
the objects and purposes of the Company contemplated by this Agreement and to
perform or authorize all acts which it may deem necessary or advisable in
connection therewith.  The Members agree that, subject to the consent
and other rights set forth in Sections   4.10(a)  ,
 10.02  and  10.06(h) ,
all determinations, decisions and actions made or taken by the Board shall be
conclusive and absolutely binding upon the Company, the Members and their
respective  

41 

successors,
assigns and personal representatives (without requirement for further consent or
other action by the Members).  The voting and consent rights of the
Members are solely those set forth herein and the Members shall have no
additional voting or consent rights under the Act. 

(g)     Each
Director will serve without compensation.  Each Director shall be
entitled to reimbursement for reasonable and necessary out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by such Director during the course of conducting the Company s
business.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, following an IPO, the Board
may authorize compensation for some or all Independent Directors. 

(h)     No
Director (acting in his or her capacity as such) shall have any right or
authority to act on behalf of or to bind the Company with respect to any matter
except pursuant to a resolution authorizing such action, which resolution is
duly adopted by the Board by the affirmative vote required for such matter
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. 

(i)     Each
Director may authorize another individual (who may or may not be a Director) to
act for such Director by proxy at any meeting of the Board, or to express
consent or dissent to a Company action in writing without a
meeting.  A writing authorizing a Person to act for such Director as
proxy, which has been executed by such Director and entered into the books and
records of the Company, shall be a valid means by which a Director may grant
such authority. 

(j)     So
long as GE s Percentage Interest is at least 10% (calculated in accordance with
 Section 4.10(d) ), HoldCo shall have the right to
designate one non-voting observer to the Board;  provided  that prior to any
such designation, such observer shall enter into a confidentiality agreement
with the Company on terms reasonably satisfactory to Comcast.  Such
observer shall be entitled to receive notice and attend all meetings of the
Board and shall receive the same information regarding the Company as is
provided to the Directors.  Such observer shall be entitled to attend
any committee meeting to which such observer is invited by any Director on such
committee. 

(k)     So
long as the Comcast Members  aggregate Percentage Interests are at least 10%,
the Comcast Members shall have the right to designate one non-voting observer to
the Board;  provided
 that prior to any such designation, such observer shall enter into a
confidentiality agreement with the Company on terms reasonably satisfactory to
HoldCo.  Such observer shall be entitled to receive notice and attend
all meetings of the Board and shall receive the same information regarding the
Company as is provided to the Directors.  Such observer shall be
entitled to attend any committee meeting to which such observer is invited by
any Director on such committee. 

42 

(l)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in   Section
5.01(j)   or  Section 5.01(k) , upon the
reasonable request of any Director, the Board may determine to exclude the
non-voting observers from any meeting of the Board or any committee thereof or
any portion of either of the foregoing.  For the avoidance of doubt,
if both HoldCo and the Comcast Members have designated a non-voting observer,
then the Board may only determine to simultaneously exclude both such non-voting
observers. 

Section
5.02      .  Required Board
Actions.   (a)  Prior to a Qualifying Public Offering
and for so long as GE s Percentage Interest is at least 10% (calculated in
accordance with  Section 4.10(d) ), the Company shall
take no action (including any action by the Board or any committee of the Board)
after the date hereof with respect to any of the following matters without the
affirmative approval of a majority of the Whole Board: 

(i)     any
creation, incurrence, or assumption of Debt by the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries in an amount in excess of $250 million, including the Debt of any
Subsidiary acquired by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, in each case that
will be included in the consolidated Debt of the Company; 

(ii)     any
removal of any of the Company s Chief Executive Officer or employees directly
reporting thereto (including, for the avoidance of doubt, the Chief Financial
Officer of the Company); 

(iii)     any
acquisition (whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise) of Equity Securities
or other investment in any third party business (including through a purchase of
assets) or any disposition of Equity Securities or other assets by the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries (in a single transaction or a series of related
transactions) with a purchase price in excess of 20% of the aggregate dollar
value of the assets reflected on the Company s most recent year-end consolidated
balance sheet at the time the Company agrees in writing to such transaction (it
being understood that, to the extent that as a result of any acquisition or
other third party investment the consolidated Debt of the Company increased or
will increase, the purchase price for such acquisition or other third party
investment shall be deemed to have included or include a  pro rata  portion
(corresponding to the percentage of the business or entity acquired pursuant to
such acquisition or other third party investment) of the value of such
incremental Debt); 

(iv)     any
loan or advance to or guarantee for the benefit of any Person (other than a
wholly-owned Subsidiary), other than (i) any loan, advance or guarantee in the
ordinary course of business of the Company  

43 

and
its Subsidiaries and (ii) any other loan, advance or guarantee that does not
exceed $50 million; 

(v)     any
prepayment of any loan, factoring or assignment of any debt or creation or
redemption of any mortgage, charge, debenture or other security by the Company
or any of its Subsidiaries in an amount in excess of $250 million; 

(vi)     any
material restructuring of employees; 

(vii)     any
entering into, or any material amendment or modification of, any agreement of
the Company or any of its Subsidiaries providing for payments by or to the
Company or such Subsidiary in excess of $50 million per annum or $250 million in
the aggregate over the term of such agreement (or, in the case of any material
amendment or modification, over the remaining term of such agreement) and which
agreement (or amendment or modification) is outside the ordinary course of
business;  provided  that
this clause (vii) shall not apply to any agreement (or amendment or modification
thereto) the subject matter of which is covered by another clause of this  Section 5.02(a) ; 

(viii)     any
commencement or settlement of litigation or an arbitration proceeding, which is
likely to have a material impact on the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a
whole; 

(ix)     any
proposed settlement or other resolution of any material inquiry or investigation
of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries by a Governmental
Authority; 

(x)     any
application for the listing of Company Securities on a securities exchange or
automated dealer quotation system; 

(xi)     to
the fullest extent permitted by Law, any liquidation, dissolution, winding up,
commencement of or consent to bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or similar
proceedings with respect to the Company or any of its material
Subsidiaries; 

(xii)     subject
to  Section 5.09 , any future strategic plan of the
Company or any material amendment to or departure therefrom, and any material
amendment to or departure from the initial strategic plan of the Company, a copy
of which is attached hereto as Exhibit B; 

(xiii)     incurrence
of expenditures on any project not included in the then current strategic plan
of the Company in excess of $100 million; 

44 

(xiv)     material
changes to the compliance plan of the Company, a copy of which is attached
hereto as Exhibit C; 

(xv)     annual
reports of the Company; or 

(xvi)     annual
budget of the Company and its Subsidiaries. 

(b)     For
so long as GE s Percentage Interest is at least 10%, the following information
will be included in the operational review presented to the Board at quarterly
meetings: 

(i)     the
material terms of any material acquisition (whether by merger, consolidation or
otherwise) of Equity Securities or other material third party investment
(including through a purchase of assets) or material disposition of Equity
Securities or other assets by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (in a
single transaction or a series of related transactions) then under active
negotiation, then pending or completed in the most recent fiscal
quarter; 

(ii)     any
entry into, or any material amendment or modification of, any agreement of the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries providing for payments by or to the Company
or such Subsidiary in excess of $50 million per annum or $250 million in the
aggregate over the term of such agreement (or, in the case of any material
amendment or modification, over the remaining term of such agreement);  provided  that this clause
(ii) shall not apply to any agreement (or amendment or modification thereto) the
subject matter of which is covered by  Section
5.02(b)(i) ; or 

(iii)     a
report on the status of any material inquiry or investigation of the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries by a Governmental Authority. 

Section
5.03      .  Removal and
Resignation.   (a)  Each Member or group of Members
shall at all times have the exclusive right to remove, with or without cause,
any Director designated by such Member or group of Members, upon the giving of
written notice to such Director and the Board.  Directors who were not
designated by the Comcast Members or HoldCo pursuant to   Section
5.01(b)   or  (c)  may be removed at any
time by the affirmative vote of Members holding a majority of the then
outstanding Membership Interests present in person or represented by proxy at a
duly called meeting and entitled to vote thereat. 

(b)     Any
Director may resign by written notice to the Board.  Unless otherwise
specified therein, a Director s resignation shall take effect upon
delivery.  Vacancies created on the Board resulting from the
resignation (other than pursuant to  Section
5.03(c) ), removal, death, retirement or disability of a  

45 

Director
shall be filled by the Member or group of Members that designated such Director
with such appointment to become effective immediately upon delivery of written
notice of such appointment to the other Members and the Company President, or in
the case of Directors who were not designated by the Comcast Members or HoldCo
pursuant to   Section
5.01(b)   or  (c) , by the affirmative vote
of a majority of the Directors then in office (even if less than a
quorum). 

(c)     In
the event that any Director would not continue to be entitled to be designated
by the Member or group of Members, as applicable, that designated such Director
pursuant to   Section
5.01(b)   or   Section
5.01(c)  , then such Director shall be deemed to have immediately
resigned.  Any vacancy created by such deemed resignation shall be
filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors then in office
(even if less than a quorum). 

(d)     Each
of the Company and each Member agrees to take all necessary action to effectuate
fully the provisions of Sections   5.01(b)  ,
  5.01(c)  
and  5.03(c)  to ensure that the Board consists of
the Directors that are duly designated, elected or appointed in accordance with
such sections, including by promptly calling and/or voting, as applicable, in
any meetings or promptly participating in an action by written consent;  provided  that if GE s
Percentage Interest is less than 10%, this  Section
5.03(d)  shall not be applicable to HoldCo. 

Section
5.04      .  Meetings of the
Board.   (a)  Regular meetings of the Board shall be
held on at least a quarterly basis at such place, date and time as the Board may
designate.  Special meetings of the Board may be called at any time by
any Director. 

(b)     Notice
of a meeting of the Board or any committee thereof stating the place, date and
hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called
shall be given to each Director by telephone, electronic mail or facsimile no
less than five Business Days before the date of the meeting;  provided  that the Chairman
may reduce the advance notice period for any meeting to no less than two
Business Days if the Chairman determines, acting reasonably and in good faith,
that it is necessary in the best interests of the Company for the Board to take
action within a time period of less than five Business Days.  Notice
of any meeting may be waived by any Director.  Presence at the meeting
shall constitute waiver of any deficiency of notice, except when such Director
attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of
the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not
called or convened in accordance with this Agreement. 

(c)     The
Secretary of the Company shall circulate to each Director an agenda for the
quarterly meeting not less than five Business Days in advance of such quarterly
meeting (or if sent by facsimile, three Business Days before the date of such
quarterly meeting).  Such agenda shall include a discussion of the

46 

financial
reports most recently delivered pursuant to  Section
11.01   or
   Section
11.02   , as the
case may be,  and any other matters that a Director may reasonably request
be included on such agenda (subject, however, to the other provisions of this
Agreement). 

(d)     The
presence in person or by proxy of a number of Directors equal to a majority of
the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business at any
meeting of the Board;  provided  that in order to
constitute a quorum, at least a majority of the Directors present in person or
by proxy must be Directors designated by the Comcast Members and for so long as
GE has a Percentage Interest of at least 10% and subject to the last sentence of
this  Section 5.04(d) , at least one Director present
in person or by proxy must be a Director designated by HoldCo.  If
such quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board, the Directors
present shall adjourn the meeting and promptly give notice of when it will be
reconvened.  If a meeting is adjourned due to a lack of a quorum, and
the sole reason for such lack of a quorum was the failure of at least one
Director designated by HoldCo to be present, then, if the reconvened meeting is
held at least 24 hours after the meeting at which a quorum was not present, then
at such reconvened meeting, the presence in person or by proxy of at least one
Director designated by HoldCo shall not be required in order for a quorum to be
present. 

(e)     Members
of the Board may participate in a meeting of the Board or any committee thereof,
by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means
of which all Persons participating in the meeting can hear one
another.  Participation in a meeting pursuant to this  Section 5.04(e)  shall constitute presence in person at
such meeting pursuant to  Section 5.04(d)  and shall
constitute a waiver of any deficiency, except when such Director attends the
meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting,
to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not called or convened
in accordance with this Agreement. 

(f)     Each
Director shall be entitled to cast one vote with respect to each matter brought
before the Board (or any committee thereof of which such Director is a member)
for approval.  Except as otherwise provided by this Agreement, the
affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors in attendance at any meeting at
which a quorum is present shall be required to authorize any action by the Board
and shall constitute the action of the Board for all purposes.  No
Director shall be disqualified from voting on matters as to which the Member or
group of Members that designated such Director or any of their respective
Affiliates may have an interest.  Notwithstanding any duty otherwise
existing at Law or in equity, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, no
Director (other than a Director who is an officer of the Company (but is not an
officer of Comcast, GE or any of their respective Subsidiaries) in his or her
capacity as an officer of the Company) shall have any duty to disclose to the
Company or the Board confidential information  

47 

of
the Member or group of Members that designated such Director or any of their
respective Affiliates in such Director s possession even if it is material and
relevant information to the Company and/or the Board and, in any case, such
Director shall not be liable to the Company or the other Members or their
Affiliates for breach of any duty (including the duty of loyalty or any other
fiduciary duties) as a Director by reason of such lack of disclosure of such
confidential information;  provided  that such Director
believes in good faith that its disclosure of such information would be
prohibited by a confidentiality agreement with, or fiduciary duty to, another
Person.  For the avoidance of doubt, a Director shall not be
considered to be an officer of the Company by virtue of holding the position of
Chairman of the Board. 

(g)     The
Secretary of the Company or, if he or she is not present, any individual whom
the Chairman may appoint, shall keep minutes of each meeting which shall reflect
all actions taken by the Board thereat. 

(h)     The
Board may establish other provisions and procedures relating to the governance
of its meetings that are not in conflict with the terms of this
Agreement. 

Section
5.05      .  Action Without a
Meeting.   Notwithstanding  Section
5.04 , on any matter requiring an approval or consent of the Board under this
Agreement or the Act, the Board or any committee thereof may take such action
without a meeting, without notice and without a vote if a consent or consents in
writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by all of the
Directors or, in the case of a committee, all of the Directors who are members
of such committee. 

Section
5.06      .  Chairman of the
Board.   Directors designated by the Comcast Members may appoint
any one of the Directors who was designated by the Comcast Members to act as
Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of Members and the Board at
which he or she is present.  Such Chairman shall also perform such
other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board,
subject, in each case, to the ultimate authority of the Board and the consent
rights set forth in  Section 4.10(a) . 

Section
5.07      .  Committees of the
Board.   (a)  The Board may designate one or more
committees, with each committee to consist of one or more of the Directors,
subject to the requirements set forth in this  Section
5.07 .  Any committee, to the extent permitted by Law and provided
in the resolution of the Board establishing such committee, shall have and may
exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the
business and affairs of the Company, and may authorize the seal of the Company
to be affixed to all papers which may require it;  provided  that, following an
IPO, no duties will be delegated to the audit committee other than those duties
required by Law to be so delegated.   

48 

Each
committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board when
required. 

(b)     Subject
to the requirements of Law, Directors designated by the Comcast Members shall
constitute at least a majority of each committee of the Board and, if there are
any Directors designated by HoldCo, each such committee shall include at least
one such Director;  provided  that, following an
IPO, the audit committee shall be comprised solely of the Independent Directors
designated pursuant to  Section
5.01(c)(i) . 

(c)     A
majority of the members of any committee may determine its action and fix the
time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise
provide.  Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the
committee in the manner provided for in  Section
5.04(b) .  Subject to   Section
5.07(b)   and except as expressly required otherwise by a Transaction
Agreement with respect to a committee contemplated by such Transaction
Agreement, the Board shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to
change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee.  Nothing
herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from appointing one or more
committees consisting in whole or in part of Persons who are not Directors;
 provided, however , that
no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the
Board. 

Section
5.08      .  Officers; Designation
and Election of Officers; Duties.   (a)  Subject to
Sections  4.10(a)  and 4.10(b), the Board may, from
time to time, employ and retain Persons as may be necessary or appropriate for
the conduct of the Company s business (subject to the supervision and control of
the Board), including employees, agents and other Persons (any of whom may be a
Member or Representative) who may be designated as officers of the Company, with
titles including but not limited to  chief executive officer,   chief financial
officer,   president,   vice president,   treasurer,   secretary,   general
counsel  and  director,  as and to the extent authorized by the
Board.  Any number of offices may be held by the same
Person.  In the Board s discretion, the Board may choose not to fill
any office for any period as it may deem advisable.  Officers need not
be residents of the State of Delaware or Members.  Any officers so
designated shall have such authority and perform such duties as the Board may,
from time to time, delegate to them;  provided  that the Chief
Executive Officer of the Company shall be the most senior officer of the
Company, and no other officer shall be granted authority equal to or in excess
of that of the Chief Executive Officer with respect to any matter or any
authority as generally pertains to a chief executive officer of companies of a
size and scope comparable to the Company.  The Board may assign titles
to particular officers.  Each officer shall hold office until his
successor shall be duly designated or until his or her death or until he or she
shall resign or shall have been removed in the manner hereinafter
provided. 

49 

(b)      Removal of Officers;
Vacancies.   Any officer may resign as such at any
time.  Such resignation shall be made in writing and shall take effect
at the time specified therein, or if no time is specified, at the time of its
receipt by the Board.  The acceptance by the Board of a resignation of
any officer shall not be necessary to make such resignation effective, unless
otherwise specified in such resignation.  Any officer may be removed
as such, either with or without cause, at any time by the Board or any
authorized committee thereof.  Subject to  Section 4.10(b) , vacancies may be filled by approval
of the Board or any authorized committee thereof.  Designation of any
Person as an officer by the Board shall not in and of itself vest in such Person
any contractual or employment rights with respect to the Company. 

(c)      Powers and
Duties.   The officers of the Company shall have such authority
and perform such duties in the management of the Company as may be prescribed by
the Board and, to the extent not so prescribed, as generally pertain to their
respective offices in a public company incorporated under the Delaware General
Corporation Law, subject to the control of the Board or any authorized committee
thereof. 

(d)      Officers as Agents; Reliance by
Third Parties . 

(i)     The
officers, to the extent of their powers set forth in this Agreement or in a
resolution of the Board or authorized committee thereof, are agents of the
Company for the purpose of the Company s business, and the actions of the
officers taken in accordance with such powers shall bind the
Company. 

(ii)     Any
Person dealing with the Company may rely upon a certificate signed by any
officer as to: 

(A)     the
identity of any Member, Director or officer; 

(B)     the
existence or nonexistence of any fact or facts which constitute a condition
precedent to acts by Members, the Board or officers or in any other manner
germane to the affairs of the Company; 

(C)     the
Persons who are authorized to execute and deliver any instrument or document of
or on behalf of the Company; 

(D)     the
authenticity of any copy of this Agreement and amendments hereto; 

50 

(E)     any
act or failure to act by the Company or as to any other matter whatsoever
involving the Company or, solely with respect to the activities of the Company,
any Member; and 

(F)     the
authority of the Board, any officer, any employee or agent of the Company, or
the Tax Matters Member. 

Section
5.09      .  Strategic
Plans.   The initial strategic plan of the Company is attached
hereto as Exhibit B.  Each fiscal year, the officers of the Company
shall develop a strategic plan for the Company covering a three-year
period.  Each successive strategic plan and any material amendment to
any strategic plan (including any material amendments to the initial strategic
plan of the Company) shall be presented to the Board for its
consideration.  If at any Board meeting any Director designated by
HoldCo raises any objection to any such strategic plan or material amendment
presented at such meeting and such objection is not resolved at such meeting,
each of Comcast and GE will cause their respective chief executive officers to
use their respective good faith efforts during the five Business Days following
such meeting to resolve such objection after such meeting;  provided, however , that any
approval of such strategic plan or material amendment by a majority of the Whole
Board after such five Business Day period shall be sufficient approval with
respect thereto. 

Section
5.10      .  Controlled Company.
 The Members agree and acknowledge that, following an IPO, by virtue of
this Agreement, they will be acting as a  group  for the purpose of the Company
qualifying for the exemptions relating to controlled companies under the listing
standards of any national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) on which the
Company is listed.  If Comcast, together with its Affiliates, owns
less than 50.1% of the outstanding common equity of the Company, but Comcast, GE
and their respective Affiliates own more than 50% of the outstanding common
equity of the Company on an aggregate basis, Comcast, GE and the Members will
take whatever action may be reasonably necessary to ensure that the Company is
eligible for such exemptions;  provided  that such actions
shall not require GE or any of its Affiliates to incur any costs or expenses
(other than costs or expenses in connection with any filings required under
applicable Law or similar action) or to acquire additional equity of the
Company; and  provided,
further,  that in the event that GE s Percentage Interest is less than 10%
(calculated in accordance with  Section 4.10(d) ),
this   Section
5.10   shall not be applicable to GE or its Affiliates or
HoldCo. 

ARTICLE
6   Duties,
Exculpation and Indemnification 

Section
6.01      .  Duties, Exculpation and
Indemnification.   (a)  Notwithstanding any duty
otherwise existing at Law or in equity, to the fullest extent permitted by Law
and except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement,  

51 

no
Member or Affiliate of any Member shall have any duty (including any fiduciary
duty) otherwise applicable at Law or in equity to the Company or to any other
Person with respect to or in connection with the Company or the Company s
business or affairs.  Except to the extent that a particular provision
in this Agreement (including, without limitation, (i) the third and fourth
sentences of  Section 5.04(f) , (ii)  Section 6.02  and (iii)  Section 9.08 ) establishes a different standard,
process, right or duty, the Directors and each Company officer shall owe such
fiduciary duties to the Company and the Members as shall exist from time to time
under the Laws of the State of Delaware with respect to directors or officers,
as applicable, of Delaware corporations. 

(b)     To
the fullest extent permitted by Law, no Person made or threatened to be made a
party to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative
or investigative, by reason of the fact that such Person is or was a member,
shareholder, partner, director, manager or executive officer of the Company or
any of its Subsidiaries (collectively,   Covered Persons  ) shall be
liable to the Company or its Subsidiaries or to any other Person that is a party
hereto or is otherwise bound hereby for any act or failure to act with respect
to or in connection with the Company or the Company s business or affairs,
except in the case of bad faith or willful misconduct.  The Company
shall also have the power to exculpate to the same extent set forth in this  Section 6.01(b)  employees of the Company or its
Subsidiaries who are not Covered Persons and agents of the Company or its
Subsidiaries. 

(c)     Except
in the case of bad faith or willful misconduct, each Person (and the heirs,
executors or administrators of such Person) who was or is a party or is
threatened to be made a party to, or is involved in any threatened, pending or
completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or
investigative, by reason of the fact that such Person is or was a Covered
Person, in each case acting in their capacities as such, and such action, suit
or proceeding relates to an act or omission of such Covered Person acting in its
capacity as such, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the
fullest extent permitted by the Laws of the State of Delaware (including
indemnification for acts or omissions constituting negligence, gross negligence
or breach of duty);  provided  that the foregoing
indemnification shall not be available to a Member in the case of an action,
suit or proceeding brought by a Member or any other party to this Agreement
against such Member.  The right to indemnification conferred in this
  Section
6.01(c)   shall also include the right to be paid by the Company the
expenses incurred in connection with any such action, suit or proceeding in
advance of its final disposition to the fullest extent authorized by the Laws of
the State of Delaware;  provided  that the payment of
such expenses in advance of the final disposition of an action, suit or
proceeding shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking by
or on behalf of the applicable Covered Person to repay all amounts so paid in
advance if it shall ultimately be determined that such Covered Person is not
entitled to be indemnified under this   Section

52 

6.01(c) 
or otherwise.  The rights to indemnification and advancement conferred
in this   Section
6.01(c)   constitute contract rights.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this  Section 6.01 , the
Company shall indemnify a Covered Person in connection with a proceeding (or
part thereof) initiated by such Covered Person only if such proceeding (or part
thereof) was authorized by the Board;  provided, however,  that a
Covered Person shall be entitled to reimbursement of his or her reasonable
counsel fees with respect to a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such
Covered Person to enforce his or her right to indemnity or advancement of
expenses under the provisions of this  Section 6.01 
to the extent that the Covered Person is successful on the merits in such
proceeding (or part thereof).  The Company shall also have the power
to indemnify and hold harmless to the same extent set forth in this   Section
6.01(c)   employees of the Company or its Subsidiaries who are not
Covered Persons and agents of the Company or its Subsidiaries. 

(d)     The
Company may, by action of the Board, provide indemnification to such officers,
employees and agents of the Company or other Persons who are or were serving at
the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise to such
extent and to such effect as the Board shall determine to be
appropriate. 

(e)     The
Company shall have the power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any
Person who is or was a Covered Person or is or was serving at the request of the
Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense,
liability or loss incurred by such Person in any such capacity or arising out of
his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify
him against such liability under the Laws of the State of Delaware. 

(f)     Notwithstanding
any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the provisions of this  Section 6.01  shall survive the termination, voluntary
or involuntary, of the status of a Member as such, the termination, voluntary or
involuntary, of the status of any Covered Person or other Person as to whom the
provisions of this  Section 6.01  apply as such and
the termination of this Agreement or dissolution of the Company. 

(g)     The
provisions of this  Section 6.01  shall be applicable
to any action, suit or proceeding commenced after the date of this Agreement
against any Covered Person arising from any act or omission of such Covered
Person acting in its capacity as such, whether occurring before or after the
date of this Agreement.  No amendment to or repeal of this  Section 6.01 , or, to the fullest extent permitted by
Law, any amendment of Law, shall have any effect on the rights provided under
this  Section 6.01  with respect to any act or
omission occurring prior to such amendment or repeal. 

53 

(h)     The
indemnification hereby provided and provided hereafter pursuant to the power
hereby conferred by this  Section 6.01  on the Board
shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which any Person may be entitled,
including any right under policies of insurance that may be purchased and
maintained by the Company or others, with respect to claims, issues or matters
in relation to which the Company would not have the power to indemnify such
Person under the provisions of this  Section
6.01 .  Such rights shall not prevent or restrict the power of the
Company to make or provide for any further indemnity, or provisions for
determining entitlement to indemnity, pursuant to one or more indemnification
agreements or other arrangements (including creation of trust funds or security
interests funded by letters of credit or other means) approved by the Board
(whether or not any of the Members, Directors or Company officers shall be a
party to or beneficiary of any such agreements or arrangements);  provided, however , that any
provision of such agreements or other arrangements shall not be effective if and
to the extent that it is determined to be contrary to this  Section 6.01  or applicable Law. 

(i)     Nothing
contained in this  Section 6.01  is intended to
relieve any Member or any other Person from any liability or other obligation of
such Person pursuant to the Master Agreement or any other Transaction Agreement
or to in any way impair the enforceability of any provision of such agreements
against any party thereto. 

(j)     Any
indemnity under this  Section 6.01  shall be provided
solely out of, and only to the extent of, the Company s assets, and no Member or
Affiliate of any Member shall be required directly to indemnify any Covered
Person pursuant to this  Section
6.01 .  None of the provisions of this  Section 6.01  shall be deemed to create any rights in
favor of any Person other than Covered Persons and any other Person to whom the
provisions of this  Section 6.01  expressly
apply. 

Section
6.02      .  Other Activities;
Business Opportunities.   (a) Notwithstanding any duty otherwise
existing at Law or in equity, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, and
subject only to Sections  10.02 ,  10.03  and   10.06  ,
no Member, Affiliate of any Member (other than any Affiliate that is a natural
person), Director or Company officer who is also an employee of a Member or an
Affiliate of a Member (in each case only when acting on behalf of such Member or
such Member s Affiliate in connection with such Member s or such Member s
Affiliate s own business and operations) shall have any obligation to refrain
from, directly or indirectly, (i) engaging in the same or similar activities or
lines of business as the Company or developing or marketing any products or
services that compete, directly or indirectly, with those of the Company, (ii)
investing or owning any interest, publicly or privately, in, developing a
business relationship with, or serving as an employee, officer, director,
consultant or agent of, any Person engaged in the same or similar activities or
lines of business as, or otherwise in competition with, the Company or (iii)
doing business with (directly  

54 

or
as an employee, officer, director, consultant or agent of a Person who does
business with) the Company or any Person who conducts business with the Company;
and neither the Company nor any Member (or Affiliate of any Member (other than
any Affiliate that is a natural person)) shall have any right in or to, or to be
offered any opportunity to participate or invest in, any business or venture
engaged or to be engaged in by any other Member, Affiliate of any other Member,
officer of the Company who is also an employee of any other Member (or an
Affiliate of any other Member) or Director or shall have any right in or to any
income or profits derived therefrom.  It is understood and agreed by
the Members, GE and Comcast that each Person referred to in this  Section 6.02(a)  shall be permitted to undertake any
and all actions of the type referred to in this  Section
6.02(a)  without limitation (in each case acting on behalf of the applicable
Member or Affiliate of a Member in connection with such Member s or such
Member s Affiliate s own business and operations) and that the taking of any
such actions shall not violate any legal obligation or duty (including any
fiduciary duty) to any Member, Comcast, GE or other Person under or in
connection with this Agreement or the Company, subject only to the provisions of
Sections 10.02, 10.03  and
  10.06 . 

(b)     Notwithstanding
any duty otherwise existing at Law or in equity, to the fullest extent permitted
by Law, and subject only to  Section 10.03 , if a
Member, any Director designated by a Member, any Affiliate of such Member (other
than any Affiliate that is a natural person) or any officer of the Company who
is also an employee of such Member (or any of such Member s Affiliates) acquires
knowledge of a potential transaction or matter which may be a business
opportunity for both such Member or an Affiliate of such Member, on the one
hand, and the Company or another Member or another Member s Affiliate (other
than any Affiliate that is a natural person), on the other hand, no such Member,
Director, Affiliate or officer shall have a duty to communicate or offer such
business opportunity to the Company or such other Member or such other Member s
Affiliate, and no such Person shall be liable to the Company, the other Members
and their Affiliates in respect of any such matter (including for any breach of
fiduciary or other duties) by reason of the fact that such Member or any
Affiliate of such Member (other than any Affiliate that is a natural person)
pursues or acquires such business opportunity for itself or by reason of the
fact that such Member, Director, Affiliate or officer directs such opportunity
to such Member or an Affiliate of such Member (other than any Affiliate that is
a natural person) or does not communicate information regarding such opportunity
to the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the first sentence of
this  Section 6.02(b)  shall not apply to any such
knowledge or business opportunity acquired by any Director who is an officer of
the Company (other than an officer of the Company who is an employee of Comcast,
GE or any of their Subsidiaries) in his or her capacity as an officer of the
Company.  For the avoidance of doubt, a  

55 

Director
shall not be considered to be an officer of the Company by virtue of holding the
position of Chairman of the Board or any other Board-level
position. 

ARTICLE
7 

          Accounting,
Tax, Fiscal and Legal Matters 

Section
7.01      .  Fiscal
Year.   The fiscal year of the Company shall end on December 31
of each year or on such other day as may be fixed from time to time by
resolution of the Board. 

Section
7.02      .  Bank
Accounts.   In the absence of instructions from the Board to the
contrary, an authorized officer of the Company shall determine the institution
or institutions at which the Company s bank accounts will be opened and
maintained, the types of accounts, and the Persons who will have authority with
respect to the accounts and the funds therein. 

Section
7.03      .  Books of Account and
Other Information.   (a)  The Company shall prepare
and maintain, at its principal place of business, separate books of account for
the Company that shall show a true and accurate record of all costs and expenses
incurred, all charges made, all credits made and received and all income derived
in connection with the operation of the Company s business in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied, and, to the
extent inconsistent therewith, in accordance with this Agreement.  All
questions of accounting shall be determined by the Board or a committee or
officer authorized by the Board to make such determination. 

(b)     In
addition to such books and records, the Board shall cause the Company to
maintain and make available to each Member for any purpose reasonably related to
its interest as a Member at the principal business office of the Company (or,
with respect to copies of the Company s income tax returns and reports, at the
principal business office of the Tax Matters Member):  a copy of this
Agreement, a current list of the full name and last known business address of
each Member, a copy of the Certificate of Formation, including all certificates
of amendment thereto and executed copies of all powers of attorney pursuant to
which the Certificate of Formation or any certificate of amendment has been
executed, copies of any federal, state, local or foreign income tax returns, if
any, required to be filed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries and of any
audited financial statements of the Company, in each case for the three most
recent years or, if not prepared for the three most recent years, such lesser
period for which such documents have been prepared, and all other records
required to be maintained pursuant to this Agreement or the Act. 

Section
7.04      .  Auditors.   The
auditors of the Company shall be such firm of certified independent public
accountants as shall be selected by the Board. 

56 

Section
7.05      .  Certain Tax
Matters.   (a)  The Company shall prepare and file its
tax returns (including without limitation on Internal Revenue Service Form 1065)
in a timely manner (taking into account extensions) and shall, subject to
Section 11 of the Tax Matters Agreement, cause all tax returns of the
Company and its Subsidiaries to be filed in a timely manner (taking into account
extensions);  provided,
however , that prior to filing the Company s Internal Revenue Service Form
1065, any material foreign, state or local income tax return of the Company, or
any material franchise tax return of the Company, the Company shall submit such
tax return no less than 30 days prior to its due date to HoldCo for its review,
and shall not file any such tax return with the applicable taxing authority
without the consent of HoldCo, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.  HoldCo may object to the filing of such tax return by
delivering a written notice to the Company within 10 days of receipt of such tax
return from the Company.  Such written notice shall specify the item
or items included in the tax return disputed by HoldCo.  After
delivery of such written notice, HoldCo and the Company shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to resolve the dispute.  If HoldCo and the Company
are unable to resolve such dispute within five days, the disputed item or items
shall be resolved within 10 days using the procedures set forth in
Section 24 of the Tax Matters Agreement.  If HoldCo does not
object to the filing of such tax return within 10 days of receipt of such tax
return from the Company, HoldCo shall be deemed to have consented to the filing
of such tax return by the Company.  Such tax returns will be prepared
in accordance with the principles set forth in Schedule 7.05 and no change from
these principles will be reflected on such tax returns without the consent of
HoldCo. 

(b)     The
Company shall prepare such information (including without limitation a Schedule
K-1 and any comparable foreign, state and local tax forms) as shall be necessary
to enable each Member to prepare its income tax returns and shall provide such
information no later than five Business Days after the filing of the Company s
appropriate tax returns;  provided  that the Company
shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide estimates of the
information to be set forth on such Schedule K-1 no later than 60 days after the
end of each Tax Year but in no event later than 90 days after the end of each
Tax Year. 

(c)     Comcast
or any Member designated by Comcast shall be the tax matters member of the
Company (the   Tax Matters
Member  ), with all powers and responsibilities of a  tax matters partner 
as defined in Section 6231(a)(7)(A) of the Code.  The Tax Matters
Member shall act in good faith in fulfilling its
responsibilities.  Comcast or any Member designated by Comcast, in its
capacity as Tax Matters Member, shall have the right to (i) cause the Company
and its Subsidiaries to make all tax elections required or permitted to be made
by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under applicable Law (including an
election under Section 754 of the Code);  provided, however , that in
the case of any election that could reasonably be expected to have an adverse
effect on HoldCo or  

57 

any
of its Affiliates that is material and disproportionate as to its effect on
other Members or their Affiliates, such election shall not be made without the
consent of HoldCo, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;
and (ii) manage all tax proceedings of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries.  The Company shall not pay any fees or other
compensation to the Tax Matters Member in its capacity as
such.  However, the Company shall reimburse the Tax Matters Member for
any and all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including reasonable
attorneys and other professional fees) incurred by it in its capacity as Tax
Matters Member.  The Company shall indemnify, defend and hold the Tax
Matters Member harmless from and against any loss, liability, damage, costs or
expense (including reasonable attorneys  fees) sustained or incurred as a result
of any act or decision concerning the Company s tax matters and within the scope
of such Member s responsibilities as Tax Matters Member, so long as such act or
decision does not constitute bad faith or willful misconduct.  In the
event that the Tax Matters Member is notified (in writing) by a taxing authority
that the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is the subject of an audit or
examination by a taxing authority of any federal income, material foreign, state
or local income, or material franchise tax return of the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries, the Tax Matters Member shall promptly provide to HoldCo a written
notice informing the Members that the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as
applicable, is the subject of an audit or examination by a taxing authority,
shall keep the Members reasonably informed of material developments relating to
such audit or examination and not settle such audit or examination, to the
extent relating to (A) a matter set forth in Schedule 7.05 or (B) a matter that
could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on HoldCo or any of its
Affiliates that is material and disproportionate as to its effect on other
Members or their Affiliates, without the consent of HoldCo, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. 

(d)     The
Members intend that the Company shall be treated as a partnership for federal,
state, and local income tax purposes to the extent such treatment is available
(and no Member will make an election otherwise) and agree to take such actions
as may be necessary to receive and maintain such treatment and refrain from
taking any actions inconsistent therewith.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Members intend that the Company shall not be a partnership
(including, without limitation, a limited partnership) or joint venture and that
no Member or the Company shall be a partner or joint venturer of any other
Member or the Company for any purposes other than federal and, if applicable,
state and local income tax purposes, and this Agreement shall not be construed
to the contrary, and no Member shall be liable for the debts, liabilities or
obligations of the Company or any other Member. 

58 

ARTICLE
8     Allocations
and Distributions 

Section
8.01     .  Allocations. 

(a)      Membership Percentages of the
Members .  The Membership Percentage of each Member shall be
indicated on Schedule 4.01, as amended from time to time. 

(b)      Allocation of Profit and
Loss.   Except as otherwise provided in this  Section 8.01 , or required pursuant to Treasury
Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(1)(i), Profit and Loss of the Company for
each Tax Year of the Company shall be allocated among the Members in accordance
with their respective Membership Percentages, as such Membership Percentages may
be in effect from time to time. 

(c)      Special
Allocations.   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary: 

(i)     If
a Member would at any time receive, but for this  Section 8.01(c)(i) , an allocation of deduction, loss,
or expenditure that would cause or increase a deficit balance in such Member s
Capital Account in excess of any amount of such deficit balance that the Member
is obligated to restore or deemed obligated to restore (as determined in
accordance with Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(c),
1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5)), then the portion of such allocation that would
cause or increase such deficit Capital Account balance will be specially
allocated to the other Members, if any, with positive Capital Account balances
in proportion to such balances.  The loss limitation under this  Section 8.01(c)(i)  is intended to comply with Treasury
Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d), including the reductions
described in subparagraphs (4), (5) and (6) therein. 

(ii)     If
in any Tax Year, a Member receives an adjustment, allocation or distribution
described in Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d)(4), (5) or
(6), items of Company income and gain (consisting of a pro rata portion of each
item of Company income and gain for such Tax Year) will be specially allocated
to each such Member in an amount and manner sufficient to eliminate, to the
extent required by the Treasury Regulations, the deficit balance in such
Member s Capital Account in excess of any amount of such deficit balance that
the Member is obligated to restore or deemed obligated to restore (as determined
in accordance with Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(c),
1.704-2(g)(1) and 1.704-2(i)(5)) as quickly as possible;  provided  that an allocation
pursuant to this  Section 8.01(c)(ii)  will be made
only if and to the extent that such  

59 

Member
would have a Capital Account deficit after all other allocations provided for in
this  Article 8  have been tentatively made as if
this  Section 8.01(c)(ii)  were not in the
Agreement.  This  Section 8.01(c)(ii)  is
intended to qualify and be construed as a  qualified income offset  within the
meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(ii)(d) and will be
interpreted consistently therewith. 

(iii)     If
there is a net decrease in minimum gain attributed to the Company or Member
nonrecourse debt minimum gain (determined in accordance with the principles of
Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-2(d) and 1.704-2(i)) during any Company
taxable year, the Members will be allocated items of income and gain attributed
to the Company for such year (and, if necessary, subsequent years) in an amount
equal to their respective shares of such net decrease during such year,
determined pursuant to Treasury Regulations Sections 1.704-2(g) and
1.704-2(i)(5).  The items to be so allocated will be determined in
accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-2(f).  This  Section 8.01(c)(iii)  is intended to comply with the
minimum gain chargeback requirements in such Treasury Regulations and will be
interpreted consistently therewith, including that no chargeback will be
required to the extent of the exceptions provided in Treasury Regulations
Sections 1.704-2(f) and 1.704-2(i)(4). 

(iv)     To
the extent an adjustment to the adjusted tax basis of any Company asset pursuant
to Section 734(b) of the Code or Section 743(b) of the Code is
required pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4)
to be taken into account in determining Capital Accounts as the result of a
distribution to a Member in complete liquidation of its Membership Interest, the
amount of such adjustment to Capital Accounts shall be treated as an item of
gain (if the adjustment increases the basis of the asset) or loss (if the
adjustment decreases such basis) and such gain or loss shall be specially
allocated to the Members in accordance with their interests in the event
Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(2) applies, or to the
Member to whom such distribution was made in the event Treasury Regulations
Section 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv)(m)(4) applies. 

(v)      Nonrecourse
deductions  (as such term is defined by Treasury Regulations
Section 1.704-2(b)(1)) with respect to a Tax Year shall be allocated among
the Members in accordance with their respective Membership
Percentages. 

(vi)     The
allocation provisions set forth in this  Article 8 
and the other provisions of this Agreement relating to the maintenance of
Capital Accounts are intended to comply with Treasury Regulations  

60 

Section 1.704-1(b)
and will be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent with such Treasury
Regulations. 

(vii)     Any
special allocations of items of income, gain, loss or deductions pursuant to
Sections  8.01(c)(i) ,  (ii) ,  (iii) ,  (iv)  and  (v)  will be
taken into account in computing subsequent allocations pursuant to  Section 8.01(b)  and this   Section
8.01(c)   so that the net amount of any items so allocated will, to the
extent possible, be equal to the net amount that would have been allocated to
each such Member pursuant to the provisions of  Section
8.01(b)  if such special allocations had not occurred. 

(viii)     In
the event that any fees, interest, or other amounts paid to any Member or any
Affiliate thereof pursuant to this Agreement or any other agreement providing
for the payment of such amount, and deducted by the Company in reliance on
Section 707(a) and/or 707(c) of the Code, are disallowed as deductions to
the Company on its federal income tax return and are treated as Company
distributions, then: 

(A)     the
Profit or Loss, as the case may be, for the Tax Year in which such fees,
interest, or other amounts were paid will be increased or decreased, as the case
may be, by the amount of such fees, interest, or other amounts that are treated
as Company distributions; 

(B)     there
will be allocated to the Member to which (or to whose Affiliate) such fees,
interest, or other amounts were paid, prior to the allocations pursuant to  Section 8.01(b) , an amount of gross income for the Tax
Year equal to the amount of such fees, interest, or other amounts that are
treated as Company distributions; and 

(C)     the
amount of such fees, interest, or other amounts paid to any Member or any
Affiliate thereof shall be treated as having been distributed to the Member to
which (or to whose Affiliate) such fees, interest or other amounts were
paid. 

(d)      Tax
Allocations .  (i)  Except as set forth in Sections
8.01(d)(ii) and  (iii) , for each Tax Year, items of
taxable income, deduction, gain, loss or credit shall be allocated for income
tax purposes among the Members in the same manner as their corresponding book
items were allocated pursuant to Sections   8.01(b)  ,
  8.01(c)  ,
and  12.05  for such Tax Year. 

(ii)     In
accordance with Section 704(c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations
thereunder, income, gain, loss, and deduction with respect to any asset
contributed to the capital of the Company shall, solely  

61 

for
tax purposes, be allocated among the Members so as to take account of any
variation between the adjusted basis of such asset to the Company for federal
income tax purposes and its initial Gross Asset Value (computed in accordance
with the definition of Gross Asset Value) using the  traditional method 
described in Treasury Regulations Section 1.704-3(b). 

(iii)     In
the event the Gross Asset Value of any asset of the Company is adjusted pursuant
to subparagraph (ii) of the definition of Gross Asset Value, subsequent
allocations of income, gain, loss, and deduction with respect to such asset
shall take account of any variation between the adjusted basis of such asset for
federal income tax purposes and its Gross Asset Value as provided under
Section 704(c) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated
thereunder using such method determined by the Tax Matters Member in its
reasonable discretion. 

(iv)     Allocations
pursuant to Sections 8.01(d)(ii) and  (iii)  are
solely for purposes of federal, state, and local taxes and shall not affect, or
in any way be taken into account in computing, any Member s Capital Account or
share of Profit, Loss, other items, or distributions pursuant to any provision
of this Agreement. 

Section
8.02     .  Distributions. 

(a)      Distributions;
Withholding . 

(i)     The
Company shall distribute to the Members with respect to each calendar quarter of
each Tax Year, on a  pro
rata  basis in accordance with their Membership Percentages, an amount of
cash equal to the Estimated Tax Distribution Amount.  Each  pro rata  distribution of the
Estimated Tax Distribution Amount shall be made to the Members in immediately
available funds no later than three Business Days immediately preceding the date
of HoldCo s corresponding payment obligation under Section 8 of the Tax Matters
Agreement.  If the Annual Tax Distribution Amount for a Tax Year
exceeds the sum of Estimated Tax Distribution Amounts for such Tax Year, the
Company shall, within 20 days after filing its Internal Revenue Service Form
1065, distribute to the Members, on a  pro rata  basis in accordance
with their Membership Percentages, an amount of cash equal to such
excess.  If the sum of Estimated Tax Distribution Amounts for a Tax
Year exceeds the Annual Tax Distribution Amount for such Tax Year, the Company
shall so notify each of the Members and each Member shall, within 20 days after
the Company files its Internal Revenue Service Form 1065, refund to the Company
its  pro rata  share of
such excess or, at the Company s election, offset such excess against future
distributions pursuant to this  Section
8.02(a)(i) . 

62 

(ii)     Except
as specified in  Section 8.02(a)(i)  and  Article 12  and subject to   Section
8.02(c)  , (i) the Company shall have no obligation to distribute any
cash or other property of the Company to the Members and (ii) subject to   Section
4.10(a)  , the Board shall have sole discretion in determining whether
to distribute any cash or other property of the Company, when available, and in
determining the timing, kind and amount of any and all
distributions. 

(iii)     The
Company is authorized to withhold from payments and distributions, or with
respect to allocations to the Members, any amounts required to be withheld under
Law.  All amounts withheld with respect to a Member shall be treated
as if such amounts were distributed to such Member under this
Agreement.  Provided the Company determined the amount of any required
withholding reasonably and in good faith, neither the Company nor the Tax
Matters Member shall be liable for any over-withholding in respect of any
Member s Membership Interest, and, in the event of any such over-withholding, a
Member s sole recourse shall be to apply for a refund from the appropriate
Governmental Authority.  The Company shall cooperate with a Member in
the preparation and filing of such refund claims. 

(b)      Distributions in
Kind .  No Member has any right to demand or receive property
other than cash.  Assets of the Company distributed in kind shall be
valued based on the Gross Asset Value thereof. 

(c)      Limitations on
Distributions .  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to
the contrary: 

(i)     no
distribution shall be made in violation of the Act or other applicable Law;
and 

(ii)     all
amounts distributed to Members in respect of their Membership Interests shall be
distributed to them pro rata in accordance with their respective Membership
Percentages. 

(d)      Exculpation .  The
Members hereby consent and agree that, except as expressly provided herein or
required by applicable Law, no Member shall have an obligation to return cash or
other property paid or distributed to such Member under Section 18-502(b)
of the Act or otherwise. 

ARTICLE
9    Transfers,
Redemption/Purchase Rights and Additional Members 

Section
9.01      .  Restrictions on
Transfers.   (a)  Prior to the three and one-half year
anniversary of the Closing Date, neither GE nor HoldCo may Transfer

63 

(or
permit the Transfer of) any Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares;  provided  that GE and its
Subsidiaries (other than HoldCo) may Transfer HoldCo Shares owned by GE or such
Subsidiary to GE or to any direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of GE
other than HoldCo ( provided  that such Subsidiary
remains a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of GE and agrees to be
bound by the provisions of this Agreement applicable to GE).  After
the three and one half year anniversary of the Closing Date, subject to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement (including Sections 9.01(c), 9.01(d),
9.06 
and   9.07 ),
GE may directly Transfer or permit direct Transfers of Membership Interests and
HoldCo Shares to any Person but, for the avoidance of doubt, may not permit
indirect Transfers of HoldCo Shares or Membership Interests (other than an
indirect Transfer of Membership Interests resulting from a direct Transfer of
HoldCo Shares). 

(b)     No
Comcast Member may Transfer any Membership Interests owned by it other than (i)
to Comcast or to any direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of Comcast;
 provided  that such
Subsidiary remains a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Comcast and
agrees to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement applicable to the Comcast
Members, (ii) at any time after the Comcast Transfer Date, subject to  Section 9.09 , in a Transfer of all (but not less than
all) of the Membership Interests held by the Comcast Members to an unaffiliated
Person or group of Persons (  Third Party Acquirer  ), (iii)
at any time after the Comcast Transfer Date;  provided  that no such
Transfer pursuant to this clause (b)(iii) shall be permitted if, as a result of
such Transfer, the Comcast Members  aggregate Percentage Interests would not be
greater than the aggregate Percentage Interests of each other Member and its
Affiliates or the Comcast Members  would not be entitled to designate a majority
of the Directors or (iv)(x) at any time that GE s Percentage Interest is less
than 20% or (y) if as a result of a change in Law or a change in the
interpretation, enforcement or administration of a Law, in each case after the
date hereof, Comcast s and its Affiliates  continued investment in the Company
would be prohibited by Law or would reasonably be expected to result in a
material adverse effect on Comcast and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or
the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, pursuant to a spin-off to
its shareholders by Comcast of an entity that holds all of the Membership
Interests then owned by Comcast and its Affiliates.  In the event of a
spin-off as contemplated by  Section 9.01(b)(iv) ,
notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, (i) the
spun-off entity (  SpinCo  ) shall immediately
prior to such spin-off be assigned all of Comcast s rights, and shall assume all
of Comcast s obligations, under this Agreement and (ii) subject to Section
18-704(c) of the Act, from and after the time of such assignment, Comcast shall
have no rights, and shall have no obligations under, this Agreement;  provided  that from and after
the time of the assignment to, and assumption by, SpinCo of Comcast s rights and
obligations under this Agreement, either Comcast guarantees SpinCo s obligations
under  Section 9.02(d)  or SpinCo otherwise obtains
credit or other support (in a form, and from a Person,  

64 

satisfactory
to GE in GE s reasonable discretion), or is capitalized, such that SpinCo s
ability to comply with its obligations under  Section
9.02(d)  , as
compared to Comcast s ability to comply with such obligations prior to the
spin-off,  is not impaired by virtue of the spin-off (it being understood
that, among other things, the full funding of SpinCo s obligation into an escrow
account satisfactory to GE in GE s reasonable discretion or obtaining a letter
of credit (in a form, and from a Person, satisfactory to GE in GE s reasonable
discretion) with respect to the full amount of such obligation would satisfy the
obligations set forth in this proviso). 

(c)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary herein, HoldCo shall impose appropriate restrictions on
the issuance of HoldCo securities, and on the transfer of HoldCo securities by
GE, any Subsidiary of GE or any other holder thereof, as necessary to avoid the
requirement for HoldCo to register as an  investment company  under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, without reference to Rule 3a-2
promulgated thereunder.  For the avoidance of doubt, as used in this
 Section 9.01(c) ,  HoldCo securities  shall include
equity securities and debt securities of HoldCo. 

(d)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary herein, prior to an IPO, no Member shall be permitted
to Transfer, or permit the Transfer of, any Membership Interests or HoldCo
Shares in a sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Exchange Act. 

Section
9.02      .  GE/HoldCo Redemption
Rights.   (a)  HoldCo shall have the right (the   First HoldCo Redemption
Right  ), exercisable upon written notice to Comcast and the Company
during the six-month period commencing on the three and one half year
anniversary of the Closing Date, to require the Company to purchase securities
representing 50% of GE s Percentage Interest (as of immediately after the
Closing), for a purchase price equal to the Redemption Purchase Price determined
as of the date of receipt of the applicable written election by Comcast and the
Company, payable in cash;  provided  that, subject to the
immediately succeeding sentence, at the election of GE, the First HoldCo
Redemption Right may be effected by a sale of HoldCo Shares to the Company
instead of a repurchase of Membership Interests by the Company, or any
combination of the foregoing; and  provided, further , that,
subject to the immediately succeeding sentence, if GE or a Subsidiary has
previously sold HoldCo Shares in connection with an IPO Purchase Right, the
First HoldCo Redemption Right may be effected only by a sale of HoldCo
Shares.  Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, Comcast
may require that the First HoldCo Redemption Right be effected first by a
repurchase by the Company of Membership Interests (instead of a purchase of
HoldCo Shares) up to an amount such that, after giving effect to such
repurchase, the disposition by GE and its Subsidiaries of their remaining HoldCo
Shares for a price per HoldCo Share equal to the portion of the Redemption
Purchase Price attributable to one  

65 

HoldCo
Share will not result in GE and its Subsidiaries having a loss for U.S. federal
income tax purposes on the disposition of such shares that is disallowed by
operation of Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-36(c) (or any successor
provision) or as a result of any Change in Tax Law;  provided  that Comcast shall
not be permitted to require that the First HoldCo Redemption Right be effected
through the acquisition of Membership Interests to the extent that, after such
purchase of Membership Interests and the accompanying purchase of HoldCo Shares
pursuant to the exercise of the First HoldCo Redemption Right, (A) HoldCo would
be a member of the GE consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes
and (B) the aggregate bases of the members of GE s consolidated group for U.S.
federal income tax purposes in their respective HoldCo Shares would be greater
than the product of the Cushion Percentage and the allocable Redemption Purchase
Price of such remaining HoldCo Shares.  At the time of the exercise of
the First HoldCo Redemption Right, the Chief Financial Officer of GE shall
certify to Comcast and the Company as to GE s good faith estimate based on facts
then known after due inquiry of (1) the aggregate bases of the members of GE s
consolidated group in such members  HoldCo Shares for U.S. federal income tax
purposes as of the Relevant Time, (2) HoldCo s basis in its Membership Interests
for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of the Relevant Time, (3) the maximum
portion of HoldCo s Membership Interests that could have been sold, as of the
Relevant Time, at the Redemption Purchase Price without causing GE and its
Subsidiaries to recognize a loss on such sale that is disallowed pursuant to
Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-36(c) (or any successor provision) and (4) a
description of all facts (to the extent such facts would not be required to be
recorded by the Company on a properly completed IRS Form 1065 (Schedule K-1))
occurring between the Relevant Time and the date of certification, or reasonably
expected to occur prior to the consummation of the transactions pursuant to the
First HoldCo Redemption Right, that could have an effect on the foregoing
calculations during such time, in each case setting forth in reasonable detail
the basis for such computation.  The Chief Financial Officer of GE
shall deliver its certificate with respect to the matters described in clauses
(1), (2) and (4) of the immediately preceding sentence together with the
Exercise Notice for the First HoldCo Redemption Right and its certificate with
respect to the matters described in clause (3) of the immediately preceding
sentence as promptly as practicable after determination of the Redemption
Purchase Price. 

(b)     HoldCo
shall have the right (the   Second HoldCo Redemption
Right   and together with the First HoldCo Redemption Right, the   HoldCo Redemption Rights  ),
exercisable upon written notice to Comcast and the Company during the six-month
period commencing on the seven year anniversary of the Closing Date, to require
the Company to purchase securities representing the remainder of GE s Percentage
Interest at such time, for a purchase price equal to the Redemption Purchase
Price determined as of the date of receipt of the  

66 

applicable
written election by Comcast and the Company, payable in cash;  provided  that, subject to  Section 9.08 , at the election of GE, the Second HoldCo
Redemption Right may be effected by a sale of HoldCo Shares to the Company
instead of a repurchase of Membership Interest by the Company, or any
combination of the foregoing; and  provided, further , that,
subject to  Section 9.08 , if GE or a Subsidiary has
previously sold HoldCo Shares in connection with the First HoldCo Redemption
Right, the Second Comcast Purchase Right or an IPO Purchase Right, the Second
HoldCo Redemption Right may be effected only by a sale of HoldCo
Shares. 

(c)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary set forth in this  Section
9.02 , the Company shall not be required to satisfy a HoldCo Redemption Right
to the extent that, after giving effect to any borrowing by the Company required
to satisfy such HoldCo Redemption Right (assuming that all Available Cash is
applied to the satisfaction of such HoldCo Redemption Right prior to any
borrowing), (i) the Company is advised in writing by the credit rating advisory
services of Standard   Poor s Ratings Services or Moody s Investors Service,
Inc. that the Company would have a credit rating that is not an Investment Grade
Credit Rating or (ii) the Board determines in good faith that the Company would
reasonably be expected to have a ratio of consolidated Debt (as of the
reasonably anticipated date of closing of such HoldCo Redemption Right) to
consolidated EBITDA (for the most recent twelve month period for which
consolidated EBITDA has been determined at the time of the closing of such
HoldCo Redemption Right) in excess of 2.75.  For the avoidance of
doubt, the Company shall be required to satisfy the applicable HoldCo Redemption
Right to the fullest extent possible without violating the restrictions set
forth in clauses (i) and (ii) of the immediately preceding
sentence.  In satisfying the applicable HoldCo Redemption Right, the
Company must use all Available Cash.  In connection with any
determination of a credit rating advisory service set forth above in clause (i),
GE shall be given prompt notification of, and a reasonable opportunity to
participate in, all discussions with the credit rating advisory
service.  In connection with any Board determination set forth above
in clause (ii), the Company shall give GE prompt notice of such determination
and its basis therefor and at the same time a copy of all materials used by the
Board in reaching such determination. 

(d)     If
pursuant to  Section 9.02(c)  the Company is not
required to satisfy all of a HoldCo Redemption Right, Comcast shall purchase the
securities constituting such unsatisfied portion that the Company would be
obligated to purchase but for  Section 9.02(c)  for a
purchase price equal to the Redemption Purchase Price with respect to such
unsatisfied portion determined as of the date of receipt of the applicable
written election by Comcast and the Company, payable at the election of Comcast
in cash or Qualifying Securities or any combination of the foregoing;  provided  that Comcast s
purchase obligation with respect to the First HoldCo Redemption Right shall not
exceed $2.875 billion and  

67 

with
respect to the Second HoldCo Redemption Right shall not exceed an amount equal
to (i) $5.750 billion less (ii) the amount, if any, used by Comcast pursuant to
this  Section 9.02(d)  to satisfy a portion of the
First HoldCo Redemption Right; and  provided, further , that, if
Comcast elects to purchase securities in excess of its purchase obligation in
connection with the First HoldCo Redemption Right, such excess amount shall not
reduce its purchase obligation in respect of the Second HoldCo Redemption Right;
and  provided, further, 
that such purchase shall be structured (x) in the manner set forth in  Section 9.02(a)  in the case of the First HoldCo
Redemption Right and (y) in the manner set forth in  Section 9.02(b)  or  Section
9.08 , as the case may be, in the case of the Second HoldCo Redemption
Right.  For the avoidance of doubt, notwithstanding the first proviso
set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, with respect to each HoldCo
Redemption Right Comcast shall have the right to purchase at the same valuation,
in cash or Qualifying Securities, or any combination of the foregoing, any or
all securities that by virtue of such proviso it is not obligated to purchase
pursuant to such HoldCo Redemption Right.  Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary herein, the cap on Comcast s purchase obligation with respect to
any HoldCo Redemption Right shall be reduced by the amount of any purchase price
previously paid by Comcast in connection with the exercise of any IPO Purchase
Right made in response to any IPO Registration Request (as defined in Exhibit D)
pursuant to Section 2(a)(iii) or Section 2(a)(iv) of Exhibit D. 

(e)     In
the event that Comcast elects to deliver Qualifying Securities in satisfaction
of all or any portion of its obligations pursuant to  Section 9.02(d) , Comcast shall be required to deliver
such number of Qualifying Securities that, if sold by HoldCo in a single
transaction on the date of receipt with the goal of maximizing the value
received for such securities would generate cash proceeds, net of all market
discounts, fees and expenses, equal to the portion of the Redemption Purchase
Price being satisfied.  In the event that GE disagrees with Comcast s
determination of the number of Qualifying Securities delivered pursuant to the
immediately preceding sentence, GE shall within five Business Days of their
delivery provide written notice to Comcast of such disagreement.  If
Comcast and GE are unable to resolve such disagreement within five Business Days
of the delivery of such notice, GE may within five Business Days of the
expiration of such period by written notice to Comcast elect to cause the
dispute to be resolved by a mutually agreeable arbitrator (who shall be an
independent third party with relevant expertise) pursuant to an arbitration
process not to exceed 10 Business Days and conducted in New York, New York under
the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association in
effect at the time of the arbitration, except as they may be modified herein or
by agreement of the parties.  If an arbitration is necessary and
Comcast and GE do not mutually select and appoint an arbitrator within five
Business Days following delivery of the notice pursuant to the preceding
sentence, an arbitrator shall be selected and appointed in the manner set forth
in the final two sentences of  

68 

Section 10.02(f) .  All fees and
disbursements of the arbitrator shall be paid by Comcast.  In the
event the arbitrator determines that the delivery of Qualifying Securities was
deficient, Comcast shall promptly pay the amount of such deficiency to HoldCo or
GE, as applicable, in cash, by wire transfer of immediately available funds,
plus interest from the date of closing of the applicable HoldCo Redemption Right
until the date on which such payment is made at a rate equal to LIBOR (as in
effect on the date of the commencement of such interest period). 

(f)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if (i) Comcast elects to
deliver Qualifying Securities in satisfaction of all or any portion of its
obligations pursuant to  Section 9.02(d)   and
(ii)  pursuant to  Section 9.04(c) (i), the
closing of the relevant HoldCo Redemption Right would occur during a Comcast
Blackout Period, then Comcast may elect to delay such closing until after such
Comcast Blackout Period;  provided  that if Comcast so
delays such closing, the Redemption Purchase Price payable in connection with
such HoldCo Redemption Right shall accrue interest from the latest date on which
the closing of such HoldCo Redemption Right would otherwise have taken place
pursuant to  Section 9.04(c) (i) until the date on
which such closing takes place at a rate equal to LIBOR (as in effect on the
date of the commencement of such interest period). 

(g)     Prior
to delivering any Qualifying Securities, (i) Comcast shall file a shelf
registration statement registering the offer and sale of such shares by GE or
HoldCo that will permit GE or HoldCo to effect the immediate sale thereof
without volume limitations or any similar limitations (subject to the suspension
periods set forth in Exhibit D, with references to the Company being understood
to mean Comcast) and (ii) such shelf registration statement shall have been
declared effective.  Comcast will keep such registration statement
effective and will comply with the registration procedures in Section 5 of
Exhibit D hereto (as though such procedures were applicable to it, with
references to the Company being understood to mean Comcast) to permit GE or
HoldCo to effect offers and sales of Qualifying Securities under such
registration statement at any time thereafter that GE or HoldCo continues to
hold any Qualifying Securities (subject to the suspension periods set forth in
Exhibit D, with references to the Company being understood to mean Comcast)
until the entire amount of Qualifying Securities held by GE or HoldCo may be
sold without any limitation as to volume under Rule 144 (or any successor or
similar provision then in force) under the Securities Act;  provided  that,
notwithstanding the foregoing, Comcast shall be obligated to keep such shelf
registration statement effective until such time as the aggregate value of the
Qualifying Securities held by GE or HoldCo (based on the average closing sale
price of the Qualifying Security on the principal exchange on which the
Qualifying Security is listed or on the principal inter-dealer quotation system
on which the Qualifying Security is quoted during the preceding ten trading
days) first falls below $1 billion.  For so long as Comcast is
obligated pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence to keep such
registration  

69 

statement
effective, Comcast will reasonably cooperate with and assist GE or HoldCo in
connection with underwritten offerings of Qualifying Securities in accordance
with the registration procedures in Section 5 of Exhibit D hereto (as though
such procedures were applicable to it, with references to the Company being
understood to mean Comcast), subject to the suspension periods set forth in
Exhibit D, with references to the Company being understood to mean
Comcast.  Without limiting the foregoing, Comcast will enter into a
customary agreement with GE or HoldCo providing for the indemnification of GE or
HoldCo and such party s Affiliates in connection with any information included
in (or omitted from) the applicable registration statement, other than any
information supplied for inclusion in (or omitted from) such registration
statement by or on behalf of a selling holder.  Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in this  Section 9.02(g) ,
neither GE nor HoldCo shall be permitted to effect offers or sales of Qualifying
Securities made in reliance on such registration statement (excluding, for the
avoidance of doubt, offers or sales made in reliance on any applicable exemption
from the registration requirements under the Securities Act) during any Comcast
Blackout Period. 

Section
9.03      .  Comcast Purchase
Rights.   (a)  Comcast shall have the right (the
  First Comcast Purchase
Right  ), exercisable upon written notice to GE and the Company during the
ten Business Day period after the determination of the Fully Distributed Public
Market Value in respect of the First HoldCo Redemption Right, to acquire from GE
and its Affiliates securities representing the remainder (but not less than the
remainder) of GE s Percentage Interest at the Redemption Purchase Price
(determined using the same valuation as the valuation for the First HoldCo
Redemption Right), payable in cash.  Subject to  Section 9.08 , at the election of GE, the First Comcast
Purchase Right may be effected by a sale of Membership Interests or HoldCo
Shares or any combination of the foregoing;  provided  that if GE intends
to sell HoldCo Shares in connection with the First HoldCo Redemption Right or
has previously sold HoldCo Shares in connection with an IPO Purchase Right, the
First Comcast Purchase Right may be effected only by a sale of HoldCo
Shares. 

(b)     If
the First HoldCo Redemption Right is not exercised pursuant to  Section 9.02(a) , Comcast shall have the right (the
  Second Comcast Purchase
Right  ), exercisable upon written notice to GE and the Company during the
six-month period commencing on the five year anniversary of the Closing Date, to
acquire from GE and its Affiliates securities representing 50% of GE s
Percentage Interest (as of immediately after the Closing), for a purchase price
equal to the Redemption Purchase Price determined as of the date of receipt of
the applicable written election by GE and the Company, payable in
cash.  Subject to the immediately succeeding sentence, at the election
of GE, the Second  

70 

Comcast
Purchase Right may be effected by a sale of Membership Interests or HoldCo
Shares or any combination of the foregoing;  provided  that if GE has
previously sold HoldCo Shares in connection with an IPO Purchase Right, the
Second Comcast Purchase Right may be effected only by a sale of HoldCo
Shares.  Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, Comcast
may require that the Second Comcast Purchase Right be effected first by a
purchase by Comcast of Membership Interests (instead of a purchase of HoldCo
Shares) up to an amount such that, after giving effect to such purchase, the
disposition by GE and its Subsidiaries of their remaining HoldCo Shares for a
price per HoldCo Share equal to the portion of the Redemption Purchase Price
attributable to one HoldCo Share will not result in GE and its Subsidiaries
having a loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes on the disposition of such
shares that is disallowed by operation of Treasury Regulations Section
1.1502-36(c) (or any successor provision) or as a result of any Change in Tax
Law;  provided  that
Comcast shall not be permitted to require that the Second Comcast Purchase Right
be effected through the acquisition of Membership Interests to the extent that,
after such purchase of Membership Interests and the accompanying purchase of
HoldCo Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Second Comcast Purchase Right, (A)
HoldCo would be a member of the GE consolidated group for U.S. federal income
tax purposes and (B) the aggregate bases of the members of GE s consolidated
group for U.S. federal income tax purposes in their respective HoldCo Shares
would be greater than the product of the Cushion Percentage and the allocable
Redemption Purchase Price of such remaining HoldCo Shares.  If the
First HoldCo Redemption Right is not exercised pursuant to  Section 9.02(a) , the Chief Financial Officer of GE
shall certify to Comcast and the Company as to GE s good faith estimate based on
facts then known after due inquiry of (1) the aggregate bases of the members of
GE s consolidated group in such members  HoldCo Shares for U.S. federal income
tax purposes as of the Relevant Time, (2) HoldCo s basis in its Membership
Interests for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of the Relevant Time, (3) the
maximum portion of HoldCo s Membership Interests that could have been sold, as
of the Relevant Time, at the Redemption Purchase Price without causing GE and
its Subsidiaries to recognize a loss on such sale that is disallowed pursuant to
Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-36(c) (or any successor provision) or as a
result of any Change in Tax Law and (4) a description of all facts (to the
extent such facts would not be required to be recorded by the Company on a
properly completed IRS Form 1065 (Schedule K-1)) occurring between the Relevant
Time and the date of certification, or reasonably expected to occur prior to the
consummation of the transactions pursuant to the Second Comcast Purchase Right,
that could have an effect on the foregoing calculations during such time, in
each case, setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for such
computation.  The Chief Financial Officer of GE shall deliver its
certificate with respect to the matters described in clauses (1), (2) and (4) of
the immediately preceding sentence prior to the first date on which the Second
Comcast Purchase Right is exercisable, but no earlier than 30 days prior
thereto, and its certificate with respect to the matters described in clause (3)
of the immediately preceding sentence as promptly as practicable after the
determination of the Redemption Purchase Price. 

71 

(c)     If
the Second HoldCo Redemption Right is exercised pursuant to  Section 9.02(b) , Comcast shall have the right (the
  Third Comcast Purchase
Right  ), exercisable upon written notice to GE and the Company during the
ten Business Day period after determination of the Fully Distributed Public
Market Value in respect of the Second HoldCo Redemption Right, to acquire all
(but not less than all) Membership Interests and HoldCo Shares previously
Transferred by GE and its Affiliates to third parties (excluding, for the
avoidance of doubt, any Membership Interest, HoldCo Shares or any successor
securities Transferred by GE or its Affiliates pursuant to a Public Offering or
pursuant to a Rule 144 Sale), for a purchase price equal to the Redemption
Purchase Price (determined using the same valuation as the valuation for the
Second HoldCo Redemption Right), payable in cash. 

(d)     Comcast
shall have the right (the   Fourth Comcast Purchase
Right  ), exercisable upon written notice to GE and the Company during the
six-month period commencing on the eight year anniversary of the Closing Date,
to acquire from GE and its Affiliates securities representing the remainder (but
not less than the remainder) of GE s Percentage Interest at such time, for a
purchase price equal to the Redemption Purchase Price determined as of the date
of receipt of the applicable written election by GE and the Company, payable in
cash.  Subject to  Section 9.08 , at the
election of GE, the Fourth Comcast Purchase Right may be effected by a sale of
Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares or any combination of the foregoing;  provided  that if GE has
previously sold HoldCo Shares in connection with the First HoldCo Redemption
Right, the Second HoldCo Redemption Right, the Second Comcast Purchase Right or
an IPO Purchase Right, the Fourth Comcast Purchase Right may be effected only by
a sale of HoldCo Shares. 

(e)     Comcast
shall have the right (a   Public
Offering Purchase Right   and together with the First Comcast Purchase
Right, the Second Comcast Purchase Right, the Third Comcast Purchase Right and
the Fourth Comcast Purchase Right, the   Comcast Purchase Rights  ),
exercisable after a request for registration under Section 2 or 3 of
Exhibit D has been made and prior to the execution of the underwriting agreement
relating to such registration, by written notice to GE and the Company, to
acquire all, but not less than all, of the Registrable Securities that GE and
its Affiliates seek to register pursuant to such registration request, for a
purchase price equal to their allocable portion of Public Market Value
determined as of the date of receipt of the applicable written election by GE,
payable in cash;  provided  that a Public
Offering Purchase Right that has not been consummated shall not survive the
withdrawal of the related request for registration (including, for the avoidance
of doubt, if such withdrawal occurs after the exercise but prior to the
consummation of such Public Offering Purchase Right).  The
determination of Public Market Value shall commence as promptly as practicable
after notice of a request for registration under Section 2 or 3 of Exhibit
D has been made.  Subject to the immediately succeeding sentence

72 

and
 Section 9.08 , if Comcast exercises a Public
Offering Purchase Right in connection with a request for an IPO registration (an
  IPO Purchase Right  ),
at the election of GE, the IPO Purchase Right may be effected by sale of
Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares or any combination of the foregoing;  provided  that if GE has
previously sold HoldCo Shares in connection with a HoldCo Redemption Right or a
Comcast Purchase Right, such Public Offering Purchase Right may be effected only
by a sale of HoldCo Shares.  Notwithstanding the immediately preceding
sentence, if (i) Comcast exercises an IPO Purchase Right and (ii) such IPO
Purchase Right would not give Comcast the right to acquire securities
representing all, but not less than all, of GE s Percentage Interest at such
time, then Comcast may require that such IPO Purchase Right be effected first by
a purchase of Membership Interests (instead of HoldCo Shares) up to an amount
such that, after giving effect to such purchase, the disposition by GE and its
Subsidiaries of their remaining HoldCo Shares at their allocable portion of
Public Market Value will not result in GE and its Subsidiaries having a loss for
U.S. federal income tax purposes on the disposition of such shares that is
disallowed by operation of Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-36(c) (or any
successor provision) or as a result of any Change in Tax Law;  provided  that Comcast shall
not be permitted to require that the IPO Purchase Right be effected through the
acquisition of Membership Interests to the extent that, after such purchase of
Membership Interests and the accompanying purchase of HoldCo Shares pursuant to
the exercise of the IPO Purchase Right, (A) HoldCo would be a member of the GE
consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes and (B) the aggregate
bases of the members of GE s consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax
purposes in their respective HoldCo Shares would be greater than the product of
the Cushion Percentage and the allocable Public Market Value of such remaining
HoldCo Shares.  At the time of a request by GE for registration under
Section 2 or 3 of Exhibit D, the Chief Financial Officer of GE shall
certify to Comcast and the Company as to GE s good faith estimate based on facts
then known after due inquiry of (1) the aggregate bases of the members of GE s
consolidated group in such members  HoldCo Shares for U.S. federal income tax
purposes as of the Relevant Time, (2) HoldCo s basis in its Membership Interests
for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of the Relevant Time, (3) the maximum
portion of HoldCo s Membership Interests that could have been sold, as of the
Relevant Time, at the Public Market Value without causing GE and its
Subsidiaries to recognize a loss on such sale that is disallowed pursuant to
Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-36(c) (or any successor provision) or as a
result of any Change in Tax Law and (4) a description of all facts (to the
extent such facts would not be required to be recorded by the Company on a
properly completed IRS Form 1065 (Schedule K-1)) occurring between the Relevant
Time and the date of certification, or reasonably expected to occur prior to the
consummation of the transactions pursuant to the IPO Purchase Right, that could
have an effect on the foregoing calculations during such time, in each case
setting forth in reasonable detail the basis for such
computation.  The  

73 

Chief
Financial Officer of GE shall deliver its certificate with respect to the
matters described in clauses (1), (2) and (4) of the immediately preceding
sentence upon GE s request for registration and its certificate with respect to
the matters described in clause (3) of the immediately preceding sentence as
promptly as practicable after determination of the Public Market
Value. 

Section
9.04      .  Redemption/Purchase
Transactions.   (a)  If HoldCo exercises its rights
pursuant to a HoldCo Redemption Right or Comcast exercises its rights pursuant
to a Comcast Purchase Right, the party exercising such rights shall give the
other party notice in writing stating such election (an   Exercise
Notice  ).  Once delivered, an Exercise Notice shall be
irrevocable except as otherwise mutually agreed by HoldCo and
Comcast.  Upon delivery of an Exercise Notice, each of HoldCo and
Comcast shall promptly designate a representative (a   Purchase Representative  ) who
shall be an individual responsible for overseeing the exercise of the HoldCo
Redemption Right or Comcast Purchase Right, to whom all communications on such
matter will be directed, and who shall have authority to act on behalf of the
party that appointed such individual.  In the case of a HoldCo
Redemption Right, the Purchase Representative designated by Comcast shall have
the authority to act on behalf of the Company as well as
Comcast.  Each party may replace its Purchase Representative at any
time upon written notice to the other party s Purchase
Representative.  The Purchase Representatives shall meet as soon as
reasonably practicable, but in any event not later than five Business Days,
following delivery of the Exercise Notice. 

(b)     HoldCo
and Comcast, through their Purchase Representatives, will promptly cause the
Fully Distributed Public Market Value determination procedures set forth in  Section 9.05  to be commenced (except in the case of a
Public Offering Purchase Right exercised after an IPO or in the case of the
First Comcast Purchase Right and the Third Comcast Purchase Right), shall
identify and promptly commence the steps necessary for obtaining all
Governmental Approvals necessary to consummate the HoldCo Redemption Right or
Comcast Purchase Right, as applicable, and shall prepare all required
documentation. 

(c)     The
closing of any HoldCo Redemption Right or Comcast Purchase Right shall take
place on a date to be specified by HoldCo and Comcast which shall occur no later
than (i) the tenth Business Day following the later to occur of receipt of all
required Governmental Approvals and the final determination of Fully Distributed
Public Market Value in accordance with  Section
9.05 , if applicable, or (ii) such other date as may be mutually agreed in
writing by HoldCo and Comcast;  provided  that (A) if the
First HoldCo Redemption Right and First Comcast Purchase Right are both
exercised, the closing in respect of such transactions shall occur
simultaneously on the same date, (B) if the Second HoldCo Redemption Right and
the Third Comcast Purchase Right are both exercised, the closing in respect of
such transactions shall occur simultaneously  

74 

on
the same date and (C) if in connection with the closing of any HoldCo Redemption
Right or Comcast Purchase Right, GE is selling or causing to be sold both
Membership Interests and HoldCo Shares, the sale of Membership Interests shall
occur prior to the sale of HoldCo Shares on the closing date.  The
parties shall act in good faith to cause such closing to occur on such date as
determined by the foregoing sentence, including using commercially reasonable
efforts to obtain any required Governmental Approvals as promptly as
practicable.  At the closing of the HoldCo Redemption Right or Comcast
Purchase Right, HoldCo and its Affiliates, as applicable, shall sell, and the
Company and Comcast, as applicable, shall purchase, the applicable securities
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances (other than those arising under
this Agreement).  In connection with such closing and except as
otherwise provided in the HoldCo Agreement, neither HoldCo or any of its
Affiliates shall be required to make any representations or warranties or
provide any indemnification to Comcast and the Company other than with respect
to (u) corporate existence, (v) due execution and delivery, (w) corporate
authority, (x) enforceability, (y) non-contravention of law, organizational
documents and material contracts and (z) title to the securities (free and clear
of all liens and encumbrances) (the   Specified
Representations  ). 

(d)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein, if in connection with the exercise of
a HoldCo Redemption Right the Company would be obligated to purchase securities
representing all or any portion of GE s Percentage Interest, Comcast shall have
the right to require the Company to assign its obligation to purchase any of
such securities to Comcast or any Affiliate of Comcast;  provided  that for purposes of
determining the continued entitlement of GE and its Affiliates to any rights
hereunder that terminate if GE s Percentage Interest is less than a specified
threshold, GE s Percentage Interest shall be calculated as if the Company had
redeemed such securities.  In addition, at the request of Comcast in
connection with any HoldCo Redemption Right or Comcast Purchase Right in which
Comcast will purchase securities representing the remainder of GE s Percentage
Interest, the parties to this Agreement shall cooperate with respect to (i) the
negotiation and execution of Company financing in an amount sufficient to
complete such transaction and (ii) the structuring of such transaction to allow
the Comcast Members to receive and use Company funds (whether or not such funds
are the proceeds of such financing) to complete such transaction.  In
furtherance of the foregoing, GE agrees not to exercise any veto rights pursuant
to  Section 4.10  with respect to actions by the
Company in connection with such financing or any dividends of Company
funds. 

Section
9.05      .  Determination of Fully
Distributed Public Market Value.   (a)   Fully Distributed Public Market
Value   means the anticipated aggregate common equity market value of the
Company on the NYSE or NASDAQ following completion of an IPO and related market
stabilization activities, with such valuation to be established (i) using the
Public Market Valuation Methodology of the Company s consolidated and
unconsolidated businesses, (ii)  

75 

assuming
the Company is a non-controlled stand-alone entity with a single class of
fully-distributed common stock publicly traded on an active and liquid market;
(iii) assuming no premium or strategic value due to third-party interest or bid
speculation; and (iv) taking into account all relevant facts and
circumstances. 

(b)       Fully Distributed Public Market
Value   shall be determined by the following process: 

(i)     No
later than the 30th day after the Notice Date, Comcast and GE each will engage
one Appraiser (the   Initial
Appraisers  ) for purposes of estimating Fully Distributed Public Market
Value.  Comcast shall also deliver to GE a list of two potential
Appraisers each of whom shall be independent of, and not Affiliated with,
Comcast, GE, their Affiliates or the first two Appraisers and who shall not have
been engaged by GE or Comcast or any of their respective Affiliates (including
the Company and its Subsidiaries) in connection with a material transaction
other than a capital market or commercial lending transaction during the six
calendar months preceding the date of such delivery.  GE shall select
a third Appraiser from the list of two for the purpose of estimating Fully
Distributed Public Market Value.  All fees and disbursements of each
such Appraiser shall be the responsibility of the party that engaged such
Appraiser;  provided 
that Comcast shall be responsible for the fees and disbursements of the third
Appraiser.  Each such Appraiser shall determine Fully Distributed
Public Market Value in good faith in accordance with  Section 9.05(a)  and deliver its estimate of Fully
Distributed Public Market Value not later than the first Business Day that is at
least 90 days after the Notice Date.  If the higher of the two
estimates of Fully Distributed Public Market Value submitted by the Initial
Appraisers is not more than 115% of the lower estimate, then the Fully
Distributed Public Market Value will be deemed to be the average of the Fully
Distributed Public Market Value estimates of the two Appraisers. 

(ii)     If
the higher of the Initial Appraisers  estimates of Fully Distributed Public
Market Value is more than 115% of the lower estimate, then the Fully Distributed
Public Market Value shall be the average of the Fully Distributed Public Market
Value estimated by the two closest estimates among the three
Appraisers. 

(iii)     Promptly
following the engagement of each Appraiser pursuant to this  Section 9.05(b) , the Company shall (w) provide such
Appraiser with written instructions regarding the preparation of the Appraisals,
including a copy of the pertinent sections of this Agreement; (x) provide the
Company s most recent consolidated financial statements; (y) provide financial
forecasts for the Company on a consolidated basis for the then-current year and
the following year; and (z) make available to  

76 

each
Appraiser a management presentation with respect to the matters set forth in
clauses (x) and (y).  Each Appraiser shall receive identical
information pursuant to this   Section
9.05(b)(iii)  . 

(c)       Public Market Valuation
Methodology   will consist of an analysis of the trading multiples of a
group of publicly-traded comparable companies.  The principal
comparable companies will include those companies in the cable and broadcasting
entertainment industry that are most similar in growth rate and size (in terms
of revenue, EBITDA and market capitalization) to the Company.  On a
secondary basis, the Appraiser may consider additional comparable companies, but
only with adjustment of the trading multiples for material differences in
business profiles ( e.g.,
 growth rate, business mix, etc.) as compared to the
Company.  No consideration for private market value may be considered
directly or indirectly.  For example, if a stock price of a comparable
company reflects acquisition bid speculation either (i) the company must be
excluded from the group of comparable companies or (ii) the stock price must be
adjusted to exclude the impact from the acquisition bid
speculation.  The Company s management will prepare a financial
forecast for the current and next fiscal year.  In the event that this
financial forecast period is less than eighteen months as of the date provided,
the Company s management will prepare a financial forecast for an additional
fiscal year.  The financial forecasts will be prepared on a basis
consistent with financial guidance that would be provided to public
shareholders.  The Company s management financial forecast, adjusted
as appropriate based on the reasonable judgment of the Appraiser, will be the
sole financial forecast to be used in the determination of Fully Distributed
Fair Market Value.  For the avoidance of doubt, Public Market
Valuation Methodology will not include: (a)  comparable acquisitions analysis 
or any  private market  assessment of the Company ( i.e. , will be made without
regard to any premiums in respect of an acquisition of a controlling interest or
any discounts in respect of the acquisition of a minority interest), such as the
value of such shares in an acquisition or other business combination
transaction, or the price at which Membership Interests or Common Stock may have
been acquired or sold previously or any previous proposals or expressions of
interest to acquire the Company or its common Equity Securities; (b) a
discounted cash flow analysis, sum-of-the-parts-analysis or any other valuation
methodology not explicitly permitted herein; (c) the use of any estimates of the
value of the Company published by the sellside research community or any other
source; (d) any valuation derived from a financial plan which contemplates
strategic scenarios not anticipated in the Company s financial plan including
the sale of businesses or assets, acquisitions, joint ventures or any other type
of strategic initiatives; or (e) the benefit of any tax attributes and the
detriment of any tax liabilities of the Company the sharing of which is governed
by Section 9 of the Tax Matters Agreement (for the avoidance of doubt, such tax
attributes shall include tax basis attributable to the proceeds of a sale of a
Contributed Asset (as defined in the  

77 

Master
Agreement) that gives rise to a Section 704(c) Tax Amount (as defined in the Tax
Matters Agreement)). 

Section
9.06      .  Comcast Right of First
Offer.   (a)  Prior to GE, HoldCo or any of their
respective Affiliates entering into any agreement providing for a proposed
Transfer by GE, HoldCo or such Affiliate of any of its Membership Interests or
HoldCo Shares to an unaffiliated third party acquirer (other than in the case of
a Transfer pursuant to (i) a Public Offering, which shall be governed by the
provisions of  Section 9.03(e) , or (ii) a Rule 144
Sale, which shall be governed by  Section 9.07 ),
HoldCo shall deliver a notice (the   ROFO Notice  ) to Comcast
indicating its, GE s or such Affiliate s desire to Transfer or cause to be
Transferred Membership Interests and/or HoldCo Shares, the number of securities
of each type proposed to be Transferred, the cash price that GE, HoldCo or such
Affiliate proposes to be paid for such securities (the   ROFO Offer Price  ) and in
reasonable detail any other material terms sought by HoldCo or its
Affiliate.  The giving of the ROFO Notice will constitute an offer
(the   ROFO Offer  ) by
GE, HoldCo or such Affiliate, as applicable, to Transfer or cause to be
Transferred such securities to Comcast or one of its Subsidiaries at the ROFO
Offer Price for cash.  At the time a ROFO Offer is made, the Chief
Financial Officer of GE shall certify to Comcast and the Company as to GE s good
faith estimate based on facts then known after due inquiry of (1) the aggregate
bases of the members of GE s consolidated group in such members  HoldCo Shares
for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of the Relevant Time, (2) HoldCo s basis
in its Membership Interests for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of the
Relevant Time, (3) the maximum portion of HoldCo s Membership Interests that
could have been sold, as of the Relevant Time, at the ROFO Offer Price without
causing GE and its Subsidiaries to recognize a loss on such sale that is
disallowed pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-36(c) (or any
successor provision) or as a result of any Change in Tax Law and (4) a
description of all facts (to the extent such facts would not be required to be
recorded by the Company on a properly completed IRS Form 1065 (Schedule K-1))
occurring between the Relevant Time and the date of certification, or reasonably
expected to occur prior to the consummation of the transaction pursuant to an
acceptance of the ROFO Offer, that could have an effect on the foregoing
calculations during such time, in each case setting forth in reasonable detail
the basis for such computation.  The Chief Financial Officer of GE
shall deliver its certificate with respect to the matters described in clauses
(1), (2), (3) and (4) of the immediately preceding sentence together with the
ROFO Notice. 

(b)     Comcast
may accept or reject the ROFO Offer in whole but not in part, in its sole
discretion, by delivering a written notice of such acceptance or rejection, as
the case may be, to HoldCo within 20 calendar days after receipt of the ROFO
Notice.  To the extent (i) the ROFO Offer would not give Comcast the
right to acquire securities representing all, but not less than all, of the
remainder of GE s Percentage Interest at such time, (ii) such ROFO Offer relates
to the sale  

78 

of
HoldCo Shares and (iii) Comcast accepts the ROFO Offer with respect to such
HoldCo Shares, Comcast may elect in its acceptance notice first to purchase,
instead of such HoldCo Shares, Membership Interests representing up to the same
portion of GE s Percentage Interest as that represented by such HoldCo Shares at
a cash price equal to the  pro
rata  portion of the ROFO Offer Price attributable to the HoldCo Shares
with respect to which Comcast makes such election;  provided  that such right of
Comcast to purchase Membership Interests instead of HoldCo Shares shall be
limited so that, after giving effect to such purchase, the disposition by GE and
its Subsidiaries of their remaining HoldCo Shares for a purchase price per
HoldCo Share equal to the portion of the ROFO Offer Price attributable to one
HoldCo Share will not result in GE and its Subsidiaries having a loss for U.S.
federal income tax purposes on the disposition of such shares that is disallowed
by operation of Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-36(c) (or any successor
provision) or as a result of any Change in Tax Law;  provided, further , that
Comcast shall not be permitted to require that the transactions pursuant to its
acceptance of the ROFO Offer be effected through the acquisition of Membership
Interests to the extent that, after such purchase and the accompanying purchase
of HoldCo Shares pursuant to its acceptance of the ROFO Offer, (A) HoldCo would
be a member of the GE consolidated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes
and (B) the aggregate bases of the members of GE s consolidated group for U.S.
federal income tax purposes in their respective HoldCo Shares would be greater
than the product of the Cushion Percentage and the allocable ROFO Offer Price of
such remaining HoldCo Shares.  To the extent Comcast makes a valid
election pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence, HoldCo shall be deemed
for purposes of the provisions of this  Section 9.06 
to have made a ROFO Offer to Comcast with respect to the relevant amount of
Membership Interests. 

(c)     If
Comcast accepts such ROFO Offer within such 20 calendar day period, Comcast and
the seller of the relevant Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares shall
consummate the purchase and sale of the Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares as
to which Comcast has accepted the ROFO Offer on the terms set forth in the ROFO
Notice within 20 calendar days of the date of Comcast s acceptance of the ROFO
Offer;  provided  that,
if any Governmental Approvals are required in connection with such transaction,
such 20 calendar day period shall be extended until the expiration of three
Business Days following the date on which all Governmental Approvals required
with respect to such proposed transaction are obtained and any applicable
waiting periods under applicable Law have expired or been terminated but in no
event will such period be extended for more than an additional 120 calendar days
(it being understood that, if any such required Governmental Approvals are not
obtained within such 120 calendar day period, Comcast and the proposed seller
shall not be obligated to proceed with the proposed transaction and the proposed
seller may include the Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares which were to have
been sold to Comcast in any transaction effected pursuant to  Section 9.06(d)  ) .  The
parties to any such  

79 

transaction
shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any such
required Governmental Approvals.  At the closing of the Transfer,
Comcast or the applicable Comcast Subsidiary shall purchase the applicable
securities free and clear of all liens and encumbrances (other than those
arising under this Agreement or the HoldCo Agreement).  In connection
with such closing and except as otherwise provided in the HoldCo Agreement,
neither GE nor HoldCo or any of their respective Affiliates shall be required to
make any representations or warranties or provide any indemnification to Comcast
or the applicable Comcast Subsidiary except for or in respect of the Specified
Representations. 

(d)     If
Comcast fails to accept the ROFO Offer within the 20 calendar day period
referred to in  Section 9.06(b)  or if Comcast timely
accepts the ROFO Offer and the proposed transaction contemplated by such
acceptance is not consummated as a result of a failure to receive all required
Governmental Approvals within the 120 calendar day period referred to in  Section 9.06(c) , then GE, HoldCo or the applicable
seller may Transfer or cause to be Transferred all (but not less than all) of
the securities set forth in the ROFO Notice which Comcast has not elected to
purchase or which Comcast is not able to purchase as a result of a failure to
receive all required Governmental Approvals to an unaffiliated third party
acquirer at a price no less than 96% of the price proposed in the ROFO Notice
and on other terms and conditions that are no more favorable, other than in an
immaterial respect, to the unaffiliated third party acquirer than the terms and
conditions specified in the ROFO Notice, at any time during the period ending
120 calendar days after the delivery date of the ROFO Notice;  provided  that such period
will be extended until the expiration of three Business Days following the date
on which all Governmental Approvals required with respect to such proposed
Transfer have been obtained and any applicable waiting periods under applicable
Law have expired or been terminated, but in no event will such period be
extended for more than an additional 120 calendar days.  If, however,
GE, HoldCo or the applicable seller fails to complete or cause to be completed
the proposed Transfer to an unaffiliated third party acquirer within such time
periods, then any proposed Transfer pursuant to this  Section 9.06  shall again become subject to Comcast s
right of first offer pursuant to this  Section
9.06 . 

Section
9.07      .  Comcast Right With
Respect to Rule 144 Sales .  (a) Prior to GE, HoldCo or any of
their respective Affiliates Transferring any shares of Common Stock in a sale
pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (a   Rule 144 Sale  ), HoldCo shall
deliver a notice (a   Rule 144
Sale Notice  ) to Comcast indicating its, GE s or such Affiliate s desire
to Transfer or cause to be Transferred shares of Common Stock pursuant to such
Rule 144 Sale and the number of shares of Common Stock proposed to be
Transferred pursuant to such Rule 144 Sale.  The giving of the Rule
144 Sale Notice will constitute an offer (the   Rule 144 Offer  ) by GE, HoldCo
or such Affiliate, as applicable, to Transfer or cause to be Transferred such
shares of Common Stock to Comcast or  

80 

one
of its Subsidiaries at the Rule 144 Offer Price for cash.  The   Rule 144 Offer Price   shall be
the average of the daily volume weighted average per share trading prices of the
shares of Common Stock on the primary exchange or market on which such shares
trade for the 20 trading days ending on the trading day immediately preceding
the delivery of the applicable Rule 144 Sale Notice. 

(b)     Comcast
may accept or reject the Rule 144 Offer in whole but not in part, in its sole
discretion, by delivering an written notice of such acceptance or rejection, as
the case may be, to HoldCo within 3 Business Days after receipt of the Rule 144
Sale Notice. 

(c)     If
Comcast accepts such Rule 144 Offer within such 3   Business Day period,
Comcast shall consummate the purchase and sale of the shares of Common Stock
pursuant to the Rule 144 Offer at the Rule 144 Offer Price within 20 calendar
days of the date of Comcast s acceptance of the Rule 144 Offer;  provided  that, if any
Governmental Approvals are required in connection with such transaction, such 20
calendar day period shall be extended until the expiration of three Business
Days following the date on which all Governmental Approvals required with
respect to such proposed transaction are obtained and any applicable waiting
periods under applicable Law have expired or been terminated but in no event
will such period be extended for more than an additional 120 calendar days (it
being understood that, if any such required Governmental Approvals are not
obtained within such 120 calendar day period, Comcast and the proposed seller
shall not be obligated to proceed with the proposed transaction and the proposed
seller may include the shares of Common Stock which were to have been sold to
Comcast in one or more Rule 144 Sales effected in accordance with  Section 9.07(d) ).  The applicable parties
shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any such
required Governmental Approvals.  At the closing of the Transfer,
Comcast or the applicable Comcast Subsidiary shall purchase the applicable
securities free and clear of all liens and encumbrances (other than those
arising under this Agreement or the HoldCo Agreement).  In connection
with such closing and except as otherwise provided in the HoldCo Agreement,
neither GE nor HoldCo or any of their respective Affiliates shall be required to
make any representations or warranties or provide any indemnification to Comcast
or the applicable Comcast Subsidiary except for or in respect of the Specified
Representations. 

(d)     If
Comcast fails to accept the Rule 144 Offer within the 3 Business Day period
referred to in  Section 9.07(b)  or if Comcast timely
accepts the Rule 144 Offer and the proposed transaction contemplated by such
acceptance is not consummated as a result of a failure to receive all required
Governmental Approvals within the 120 calendar day period referred to in  Section 9.07(c) , then GE, HoldCo or the applicable
seller thereafter may Transfer or cause to be Transferred in one or more Rule
144 Sales the securities set forth in the Rule 144 Sale Notice which Comcast has
not elected to purchase at any time during the  

81 

period
ending 10 trading days (on the primary exchange or market on which shares of
Common Stock trade) after the expiration of the 3   Business Day period
referred to in  Section 9.07(b) .  If,
however, GE, HoldCo or the applicable seller fails to complete or cause to be
completed the proposed Transfer in one or more Rule 144 Sales within such time
periods, then any proposed Transfer pursuant to this  Section 9.07  shall again become subject to Comcast s
right of first offer pursuant to this  Section
9.07 . 

Section
9.08     .   Back-End
Transaction .  (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this Agreement, if, at the time a Roll-Up Right is exercised by giving notice in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement, the Back-End
Trigger Condition is satisfied with respect to such Roll-Up Right, then, in lieu
of the consideration otherwise specified in this Agreement to be paid in
connection with such Roll-Up Right, Comcast, GE, HoldCo and the Company shall
effect the transactions provided in Exhibit E-1 hereto (collectively, the   Back-End Transaction  ) and pay
the consideration to be paid in the Back-End Transaction.  Comcast and
GE shall cooperate in good faith in implementing the Back-End Transaction
(including, to the extent necessary, by amending this Agreement). 

(b)     In
connection with the exercise of a Roll-Up Right (which term shall include, for
the purposes of this  Section 9.08(b) , a Second
HoldCo Redemption Right irrespective of whether it would give GE and HoldCo the
right to sell all, but not less than all, of the remainder of GE s Percentage
Interest at such time), and if such Roll-Up Right is exercised by GE, at the
time of such exercise, the Chief Financial Officer of GE shall certify to
Comcast and the Company as to GE s good faith estimate based on facts then known
after due inquiry of (1) GE s basis in its HoldCo Shares for U.S. federal income
tax purposes as of the Relevant Time, (2) the aggregate bases of the members of
GE s consolidated group in such members  Membership Interests for U.S. federal
income tax purposes as of the Relevant Time, (3) the maximum portion of HoldCo s
Membership Interests that could have been sold, as of the Relevant Time, at the
Roll-Up Purchase Price without causing GE and its Subsidiaries to recognize a
loss on such sale that is disallowed pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section
1.1502-36(c) (or any successor provision) or as a result of any Change in Tax
Law and (4) a description of all facts (to the extent such facts would not be
required to be recorded by the Company on a properly completed IRS Form 1065
(Schedule K-1)) occurring between the Relevant Time and the date of
certification, or reasonably expected to occur prior to the consummation of the
transactions pursuant to the Roll-Up Right, that could have an effect on the
foregoing calculations during such time, in each case setting forth in
reasonable detail the basis for such computation.  The Chief Financial
Officer of GE shall deliver its certificate with respect to the matters
described in clauses (1), (2) and (4) of the immediately preceding sentence
(A) upon the exercise of the Roll-Up Right if such Roll-Up Right is
exercised by GE or HoldCo, as the case may be, and (B) 60 calendar days before

82 

the
date on which the Roll-Up Right described in clauses (i) and (ii) of the
definition of Roll-Up Right may first be exercised if Comcast has the right to
exercise such Roll-Up Right;  provided  that if Comcast s
right to exercise such Roll-Up Right is triggered by any action by or on behalf
of GE or HoldCo, then such certificate shall be delivered upon the taking of
such action by or on behalf GE or HoldCo, as the case may be.  The
certificate with respect to the matters described in clause (3) of the first
sentence of this  Section 9.08(b)  shall be delivered
as promptly as practicable after determination of the relevant Roll-Up Purchase
Price. 

(c)     If
HoldCo exercises the Second HoldCo Redemption Right but the consummation thereof
does not require the Company and/or Comcast (and Comcast does not elect) to
acquire all of GE s Percentage Interest at such time, then GE and Comcast will
cooperate in good faith to implement a mutually agreeable alternative
transaction to a Second HoldCo Redemption Right that would give HoldCo and GE
the right to sell all, but not less than all, of the remainder of GE s
Percentage Interest at such time, which alternative transaction shall replicate,
to the greatest extent possible, the economic arrangements and related tax
consequences contemplated by this Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement giving
effect to Membership Interests and/or HoldCo Shares being retained by GE and/or
its Affiliates.  For the avoidance of doubt, if GE and Comcast are
unable to agree on such alternative transaction, then the Back-End Transaction
shall not be effected and the consideration to be paid in connection with the
Second HoldCo Redemption Right shall be the Redemption Purchase Price as
determined in accordance with  Section
9.02(b) . 

Section
9.09      .  HoldCo Tag-Along
Right.   (a)  Prior to entering into a definitive
agreement providing for the proposed Transfer (by merger, consolidation, sale or
otherwise) of all (but not less than all) of the Membership Interests owned by
the Comcast Members to a Third Party Acquirer (a   Tag-Along Sale  ), Comcast
shall deliver a notice (a   Tag-Along Notice  ) to HoldCo
indicating the proposed purchase price and in reasonable detail the other
material terms and conditions of the proposed Transfer, including the identity
of the proposed Third Party Acquirer, and in the case of a proposed Transfer in
which the consideration payable consists in part or in whole of consideration
other than cash, such information relating to such consideration as HoldCo may
reasonably request as being necessary to evaluate such non-cash
consideration. 

(b)     Subject
to  Section 9.09(c) , HoldCo may, in its sole
discretion, elect to sell or cause to be sold in the proposed Transfer
securities representing all (but not less than all) of GE s Percentage Interest
on the terms and conditions specified in the Tag-Along Notice;  provided  that if at such time
GE has sold any HoldCo Shares to the Company or Comcast pursuant to a HoldCo
Redemption Right or Comcast Purchase Right, GE may only sell or cause to be sold
HoldCo Shares in such transaction (the   Tag-Along
Right  ). 

83 

(c)     HoldCo
may exercise its Tag-Along Right by delivering an irrevocable written notice of
its election to do so (the   Tag-Along Acceptance Notice  )
to Comcast within 20 calendar days after the delivery of the Tag-Along
Notice.  Upon the consummation of any Transfer pursuant to this  Section 9.09 , each of the sellers participating
therein will receive the same form and amount of consideration for its
securities and shall be subject to the same terms and conditions of Transfer
(except as otherwise provided in the HoldCo Agreement);  provided  that if HoldCo is
selling or causing to be sold HoldCo Shares (whether pursuant to the proviso set
forth in  Section 9.09(b)  or at its election) (x)
the aggregate consideration payable to HoldCo and its Affiliates in such
Transfer shall equal a portion of the aggregate consideration payable to all of
the sellers in such Transfer calculated by dividing GE s Percentage Interest by
the aggregate Percentage Interests being sold in such Transfer and (y) the
aggregate consideration payable to the Comcast Members in such Transfer shall
equal a portion of the aggregate consideration payable to all of the sellers in
such Transfer calculated by dividing the Comcast Members  aggregate Percentage
Interests by the aggregate Percentage Interests being sold in such
Transfer.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
if the aggregate consideration payable to all of the sellers in the Tag-Along
Sale exceeds the product of (x) the Percentage Interests represented by the
securities to be sold in the Tag-Along Sale and (y) [$28.15 billion]  3  , (A) the aggregate consideration payable to
HoldCo and its Affiliates in the Tag-Along Sale shall be reduced by GE s
Percentage Interest of 50% of such excess amount and (B) the aggregate
consideration payable to Comcast and its Affiliates in the Tag-Along Sale shall
be increased by the amount specified in clause (A). 

(d)     If
HoldCo does not elect to exercise its Tag-Along Right by delivering a Tag-Along
Acceptance Notice within the time period set forth in  Section 9.09(c) , then Comcast may Transfer or cause to
be Transferred all (but not less than all) of the Membership Interests then held
by Comcast and its Affiliates at the price proposed in the Tag-Along Notice and
on other terms and conditions that are no more favorable (other than in an
immaterial respect) to Comcast and its Affiliates than the terms and conditions
specified in the Tag-Along Notice at any time during the period ending 180
calendar days after the expiration of the aforementioned time period;  provided  that such period
shall be extended to the extent that such Transfer has not occurred by virtue of
the failure to obtain all Governmental Approvals required with respect to such
Transfer but in no event will such period be extended for more than an
additional 180 days.  If, however, Comcast fails to complete or cause
to be completed the proposed Transfer to the Third Party Acquirer within such
time periods, then any proposed  

3  This
amount will be increased by the purchase price for any Relevant Transactions (as
defined in the Master Agreement) contributed at Closing, if any. 

84 

Transfer
pursuant to this  Section 9.09  shall again become
subject to HoldCo s Tag-Along Right. 

(e)     If
HoldCo elects to exercise its Tag-Along Right in connection with a Transfer by
the Comcast Members pursuant to this  Section 9.09 ,
then concurrently with the consummation of such Transfer Comcast shall give
notice thereof to HoldCo, shall remit to HoldCo the total consideration (the
cash portion of which is to be paid by wire transfer in accordance with GE s
wire transfer instructions) for the securities of HoldCo and its Affiliates
Transferred pursuant to such Transfer and shall furnish such other evidence of
the completion and time of completion of such Transfer and the terms thereof as
may be reasonably requested by HoldCo. 

(f)     Notwithstanding
anything contained in this  Section 9.09 , there
shall be no liability on the part of Comcast to HoldCo or any other Person if a
Transfer by the Comcast Members pursuant to this  Section 9.09  is not consummated for whatever reason,
regardless of whether HoldCo has delivered a Tag-Along
Notice.  Whether to effect a Transfer pursuant to this  Section 9.09  is in the sole and absolute discretion of
Comcast. 

(g)     If
HoldCo elects to exercise its Tag-Along Right in connection with a Transfer by
the Comcast Members pursuant to this  Section 9.09 ,
all of the sellers in such Transfer shall be obligated to join on a pro rata
basis (based on their respective entitlements to consideration payable in such
Transfer) in any indemnification or other obligations that Comcast agrees to
provide or undertake in connection with such Transfer;  provided  that the liability
resulting from any such indemnity or similar obligation shall be several and not
joint as between the Comcast Members, on the one hand, and HoldCo and its
Affiliates, on the other hand. 

Section
9.10      .  Comcast Drag-Along
Right.   (a)  In connection with the proposed Transfer
(by merger, consolidation, sale or otherwise) of all (but not less than all) of
the Membership Interests owned by the Comcast Members to a Third Party Acquirer
(a   Drag-Along Sale  ),
Comcast may at its option require and compel HoldCo or its Affiliates to
Transfer or cause to be Transferred the securities representing GE s Percentage
Interest for the same consideration and otherwise on the same terms and
conditions as the terms and conditions under which the Comcast Members are
Transferring their Membership Interests pursuant to the Drag-Along Sale;  provided  that if at such time
GE has sold any HoldCo Shares to the Company or Comcast pursuant to a HoldCo
Redemption Right or Comcast Purchase Right, Comcast may only require and compel
GE to sell or cause to be sold HoldCo Shares (the   Drag-Along Right   and  provided, further , that if GE
is selling or causing to be sold HoldCo Shares instead of Membership Interests
(whether pursuant to the preceding proviso or at its election) (x) the aggregate
consideration payable to HoldCo and its Affiliates in  

85 

the
Drag-Along Sale shall equal a portion of the aggregate consideration payable to
all of the sellers in the Drag-Along Sale calculated by dividing GE s Percentage
Interest by the aggregate Percentage Interests being sold in such Transfer and
(y) the aggregate consideration payable to the Comcast Members in the Drag-Along
Sale shall equal a portion of the aggregate consideration payable to all of the
sellers in the Drag-Along Sale calculated by dividing the Comcast Members 
aggregate Percentage Interests by the aggregate Percentage Interests being sold
in such Transfer. 

(b)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in  Section
9.10(a) , if the aggregate consideration payable to HoldCo and its Affiliates
in the Drag-Along Sale is less than an amount equal to the Redemption Purchase
Price determined as of the date of the Drag-Along Notice, Comcast shall remit to
HoldCo the amount of such shortfall concurrently with the consummation of such
Drag-Along Sale.  In connection with any Drag-Along Notice delivered
prior to an IPO, the parties shall promptly commence the appraisal process set
forth in  Section 9.05  to determine the Fully
Distributed Public Market Value of the Company (which shall permit the
Redemption Purchase Price to be calculated). 

(c)     Comcast
may exercise its Drag-Along Right by delivering a written notice of its election
(a   Drag-Along Notice  )
to HoldCo within 15 calendar days of execution of a definitive agreement
relating to the Drag-Along Sale.  The Drag-Along Notice shall indicate
the purchase price and the other material terms and conditions of the proposed
Drag-Along Sale, including the identity of the proposed Third Party
Acquirer. 

(d)     Concurrently
with the consummation of the Drag-Along Sale pursuant to this  Section 9.10 , Comcast shall give notice thereof to
HoldCo, shall remit to HoldCo the total consideration (the cash portion of which
is to be paid by wire transfer in accordance with GE s wire transfer
instructions) for the securities of HoldCo and its Affiliates Transferred
pursuant hereto and shall furnish such other evidence of the completion and time
of completion of such Transfer and the terms thereof as may be reasonably
requested by HoldCo.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the
contrary contained in   Section
9.10(a)  , if the conditions to a Drag-Along Sale are satisfied but an
appraisal process as described in   Section
9.10(b)   is ongoing, the parties shall consummate the closing without
taking into account any shortfall amount referred to in   Section
9.10(b)   in calculating the amount of the total consideration to be
remitted to HoldCo.  Upon conclusion of an appraisal process pursuant
to   Section
9.10(b)  , Comcast shall promptly pay to HoldCo any shortfall amount
plus interest on such amount from and including the date of such closing to but
excluding the date of payment at a rate per annum equal to the  Prime Rate  as
published in  The Wall Street
Journal , Eastern Edition, in effect from time to timing during the period
from such closing to the date of payment. 

86 

(e)     Notwithstanding
anything contained in this  Section 9.10 , there
shall be no liability on the part of Comcast to HoldCo or any other Person if
the Drag-Along Sale pursuant to this  Section 9.10 
is not consummated for whatever reason.  Whether to effect a
Drag-Along Sale pursuant to this  Section 9.10  is in
the sole and absolute discretion of Comcast. 

(f)     If
Comcast elects to exercise its Drag-Along Right, under no circumstances shall
HoldCo or its Affiliates be required to make any representations or warranties
or provide any indemnification to the Third Party Acquirer in connection with
such Transfer except for, or in respect of, the Specified Representations or as
otherwise provided in the HoldCo Agreement. 

Section
9.11      .  Additional
Members.   (a)  In connection with a Transfer of
Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares other than in connection with a Transfer
pursuant to a Public Offering or pursuant to a Rule 144 Sale, each such
Person who receives Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares in accordance with,
and as permitted by, the terms of this Agreement, in each case who is not
already a Member (in the case of a Transfer of Membership Interests) or a party
(in the case of a Transfer of HoldCo Shares) to this Agreement or the HoldCo
Agreement, shall execute and deliver this Agreement or a counterpart of this
Agreement and/or the HoldCo Agreement or a counterpart of the HoldCo Agreement,
as the case may be, and agree in writing to be bound by the terms and conditions
of this Agreement and/or the HoldCo Agreement, as the case may be, that were
applicable to the transferor (subject to  Section
13.06    hereof,
in the case of this Agreement, and subject to   Section
7.05   of the HoldCo Agreement, in the case of the HoldCo Agreement),
and, in the case of a transferee of Membership Interests, shall thereupon be
admitted as an additional Member of the Company (an   Additional
Member  ). 

(b)     Each
Person who is issued new Membership Interests in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement and who is not already a Member shall execute and deliver this
Agreement or a counterpart of this Agreement and agree in writing to be bound by
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and shall thereupon be admitted as
an Additional Member. 

(c)     A
transferee of Membership Interests who is admitted as an Additional Member
accepts, ratifies and agrees to be bound by all actions duly taken pursuant to
the terms and provisions of this Agreement by the Company prior to the date it
was admitted as an Additional Member and, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, specifically ratifies and approves all agreements and other
instruments as may have been executed and delivered on behalf of the Company
prior to such date and which are in force and effect on such date. 

(d)     Each
Additional Member shall be named as a Member on Schedule 4.01.  Unless
and until admitted as an Additional Member, a transferee of any Membership
Interest, or a recipient of any  

87 

newly
issued Membership Interests, shall have no powers, rights or privileges of a
Member of the Company. 

(e)     Following
a Transfer of any Membership Interests in accordance with this  Article 9 , the transferee of such Membership Interests
shall be treated as having made all of the Capital Contributions in respect of,
and received all of the distributions received in respect of, such Membership
Interests, and shall receive allocations and distributions in respect of such
Membership Interests as if such transferee were a Member.  Unless
otherwise prohibited by Section 706(d) of the Code and Treasury Regulations
promulgated thereunder, the following shall apply to select the method to be
utilized for determining the distributive share of the Company s income, gains,
losses, deductions, credits and other items of a Member whose interest is
disposed of, in whole or in part:  (i) upon a closing of (A) any
transfer by a Comcast Member to GE or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) any transfer
by HoldCo to Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries including, for the avoidance of
doubt, the Company, or (C) any HoldCo Redemption Right, the  closing of the
books  method (including the  calendar day  convention described in Proposed
Treasury Regulations Section 1.706-4(e)(1)) shall be utilized and (ii) upon any
other transfer by a Member, the transferor Member shall have the right to
designate whether to use the  closing of the books  method or the  proration 
method;  provided  that
the transferor Member shall indemnify the Company for any reasonable incremental
costs and expenses incurred by the Company in calculating the items to be
allocated under the method selected pursuant to this clause (ii) compared to the
costs and expenses that would have been incurred if the Company had calculated
the items to be allocated using the method not selected. 

(f)     The
Company shall maintain books for the purpose of registering the transfer of
interests in the Company.  Upon a transfer of interests in the
Company, the transferor of such interests shall notify the Company so that such
transfer may be registered in the books of the Company.  A transfer of
interests in the Company shall be effective upon registration of the transfer in
the books of the Company. 

Section
9.12      .  Termination of Member
Status; Redemption or Repurchase.   Any Member that Transfers
all of its, and owns no, Membership Interests shall immediately cease to be a
Member and shall no longer be a party to this Agreement (in its capacity as a
Member) and Schedule 4.01 shall be updated to eliminate such Person;  provided, however , that such
Member (i) shall not thereby be relieved of its liability for breach of this
Agreement prior to such time or, except as set forth in  Section 9.01(b)(iv) , from any obligations under this
Agreement not related to its capacity as a Member; (ii) shall retain any rights
with respect to a breach of this Agreement by any other Person prior to such
time; (iii) shall retain the right to indemnification hereunder; and (iv) except
in the case of Comcast as expressly permitted by  Section 9.01(b)(iv) , shall not thereby be

88 

relieved
of any of its obligations under  Article
9 .  Except for purchases of Membership Interests in accordance
with the HoldCo Redemption Rights, Membership Interests may be redeemed or
repurchased by the Company only with the prior written consent of the Board and,
to the extent set forth in   Section
4.10(a)  , HoldCo. 

Section
9.13      .  Void
Transfers.   To the greatest extent permitted by the Act and
other Law, any Transfer by any Member of any Membership Interests or other
interest in the Company (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Transfer of
any Person which directly or indirectly owns Membership Interests) in
contravention of this Agreement shall be ineffective and null and void ab initio
and shall not bind or be recognized by the Company or any other
Person.  In the event of any Transfer in contravention of this
Agreement, to the greatest extent permitted by the Act and other Law, the
purported transferee shall have no right to any profits, losses or distributions
of the Company or any other rights of a Member. 

Section
9.14      .  Transfer
Indemnification; Other Tax Matters.    (a) GE shall indemnify
and hold Comcast, the Company, HoldCo, Holding and any Third Party Acquirer to
which Membership Interests are Transferred in accordance with  Section 13.06(ii)  (a   Comcast Third Party Acquirer  )
harmless against any income or franchise taxes imposed on a transfer of
Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares by GE or any GE transferee to Comcast, the
Company or any Comcast Third Party Acquirer (including, for the avoidance of
doubt, any tax imposed upon an actual or deemed distribution of HoldCo Shares by
the Company to Comcast or its Affiliates, Holding or its Affiliates or a Comcast
Third Party Acquirer or its Affiliates);  provided  that, other than in
the case of the Back-End Transaction, if (I) pursuant to the Second HoldCo
Redemption Right, the aggregate Percentage Interests of the Comcast Members or
the Comcast Third Party Acquirer and its Affiliates, as applicable, will equal
100% after the purchase of securities upon HoldCo s exercise of the Second
HoldCo Redemption Right, (II) GE elects to sell HoldCo Shares in connection with
the Second HoldCo Redemption Right and (III) Comcast or the Comcast Third Party
Acquirer, as applicable, does not exercise its right to require the Company to
assign to Comcast or the Comcast Third Party Acquirer, as applicable, the
obligation to purchase such HoldCo Shares pursuant to  Section 9.04(d) , GE shall not be required to indemnify
any party with respect to any tax described above to the extent attributable to
the HoldCo Shares Transferred in connection with the Second HoldCo Redemption
Right;  provided,
further , that the amount payable by GE pursuant to this Section shall
include an amount so that after paying all Taxes with respect to the receipt of
the indemnification payment, each party entitled to indemnification herein
receives an amount (based on the Applicable Tax Rate) equal to the amount that
it would have received had not such Taxes been imposed.  The party
that may be entitled to indemnification under the previous sentence (the   Indemnified Party  ) will act
in good faith to execute, or cause to be executed,  

89 

the
transaction in which such securities are transferred in a manner that seeks to
minimize the amount of taxes for which indemnification may by claimed pursuant
to the previous sentence (  Indemnifiable Taxes    provided  that the Indemnified
Party shall not be required to structure the transaction in a manner that seeks
to minimize Indemnifiable Taxes if doing so would reasonably be expected to
require the Indemnified Party to incur any additional cost that is not
compensated by GE. 

(b)     The
Indemnified Party shall promptly deliver to GE a copy of any written
communication received by the Indemnified Party or any of its Affiliates from a
taxing authority concerning Indemnifiable Taxes and shall promptly notify GE in
writing of any pending or threatened audit, claim or demand (a   Tax Claim  ) that could give
rise to a right of indemnification describing in reasonable detail the facts and
circumstances with respect to the subject matter of such Tax Claim. 

(c)     GE
shall have the right, at its expense, to participate in any Tax Claim or
administrative or judicial proceeding with respect to Indemnifiable
Taxes.   Such participation shall include the right to review
submissions made to a taxing authority as well as notice of any in person or
telephonic meetings with a taxing authority.  The Indemnified Party
shall not settle any such Tax Claim or administrative or judicial proceeding
without the consent of GE, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed. 

(d)     At
least 15 days prior to any transfer of HoldCo Shares by the Company to Comcast
or its Affiliates or a Comcast Third Party Acquirer or its Affiliates, the
Company shall provide written notice to GE of the intended transfer, setting
forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances regarding such transfer
(the   Comcast Proposed
Transfer  ).  The Company will not implement the Comcast
Proposed Transfer without the consent of GE, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed;  provided  that in the event GE
does not consent to the Comcast Proposed Transfer within 10 days after receipt
of written notice of the Comcast Proposed Transfer, GE shall on such date
provide Comcast or a Comcast Third Party Acquirer, as the case may be, with an
alternative proposal to effect a comparable transfer by the Company of such
HoldCo Shares (the   GE Proposed
Transfer  ).  If the GE Proposed Transfer is not reasonably
acceptable to Comcast or the Comcast Third Party Acquirer, as the case may be,
the Company shall provide written notice to GE of its rejection of the GE
Proposed Transfer, setting forth the reasons for such rejection.  If
Comcast or the Comcast Third Party Acquirer, as the case may be, does not
receive written notice from GE with a revised GE Proposed Transfer reasonably
acceptable to Comcast or the Comcast Third Party Acquirer, as the case may be
within five days after sending GE written notice of its rejection, the Company
shall be permitted to implement the Comcast Proposed Transfer, and GE shall
indemnify Comcast and the Comcast Third Party Acquirer to the extent provided

90 

by
 Section 9.14(a)  with respect to the Comcast
Proposed Transfer.  If the GE Proposed Transfer (or the revised GE
Proposed Transfer, if applicable) is reasonably acceptable to Comcast or the
Comcast Third Party Acquirer, as the case may be, either as originally submitted
or as revised, (i) Comcast or the Comcast Third Party Acquirer, as the case may
be, shall cause the GE Proposed Transfer (or the revised GE Proposed Transfer,
if applicable) to be implemented and (ii) GE shall, in addition to its
obligation to indemnify pursuant to  Section
9.14(a) , indemnify and hold Comcast and a Comcast Third Party Acquirer
harmless for any incremental costs associated with the implementation of the GE
Proposed Transfer (or the revised GE Proposed Transfer, if applicable) rather
than the Comcast Proposed Transfer. 

(e)     With
respect to any transfer pursuant to this  Article 9 
in connection with which GE transfers HoldCo Shares instead of Membership
Interests, GE shall not make an election under Section 338(h)(10) of the
Code or otherwise cause such transfer to be treated as a sale of HoldCo s assets
for tax purposes. 

ARTICLE
10   Covenants 

Section
10.01      .  Confidentiality.   (a)  Each
Member agrees that it shall hold strictly confidential and shall use, and that
it shall cause any Person to whom Confidential Information is disclosed pursuant
to clause  (i)  below to hold strictly confidential
and to use, the Confidential Information only in connection with its investment
in the Company and not for any other purpose.  Each Member agrees that
it shall be responsible for any breach of the provisions of this  Section 10.01  by any of its Representatives to whom it
discloses Confidential Information.  Each Member further acknowledges
and agrees that it shall not disclose any Confidential Information to any
Person, except that Confidential Information may be disclosed: 

(i)     to
such Member s Representatives in the normal course of the performance of their
duties or to any financial institution providing credit to such
Member; 

(ii)     to
the extent required by applicable Law (including complying with any oral or
written questions, interrogatories, requests for information or documents,
subpoena, civil investigative demand or similar process to which a Member is
subject;  provided  that,
unless otherwise prohibited by Law, such Member agrees to give the Company
prompt notice of such request(s), to the extent practicable, so that the Company
may seek an appropriate protective order or similar relief (and the Member shall
cooperate with such efforts by the Company, and shall in any event make only the
minimum disclosure required by such Law)); 

91 

(iii)     to
any Person to whom such Member is contemplating a Transfer of its Company
Securities;  provided 
that such Transfer would not be in violation of the provisions of this
Agreement, the potential transferee agrees in advance of any such disclosure to
be bound by a confidentiality agreement consistent with the provisions hereof
and such Member shall be responsible for breaches of such confidentiality
agreement by such potential transferee; 

(iv)     to
any regulatory authority or rating agency to which such Member or any of its
Affiliates is subject or with which it has regular dealings, as long as such
authority or agency is advised of the confidential nature of such information
and such Member uses reasonable efforts to seek confidential treatment of such
information to the extent available; 

(v)     to
the extent required by the rules and regulations of the Commission or stock
exchange rules; or 

(vi)     if
the prior written consent of the Board shall have been obtained. 

Nothing
contained herein shall prevent the use (subject, to the extent possible, to a
protective order) of Confidential Information in connection with the assertion
or defense of any claim by or against the Company or any Member. 

(b)       Confidential Information  
means any information concerning the Company or any Persons that are or become
its Subsidiaries or the financial condition, business, operations or prospects
of the Company or any such Subsidiaries in the possession of or furnished to any
Member (including by virtue of its present or former right to designate a
Director);  provided 
that the term  Confidential Information  does not include information that (i)
is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a
disclosure by a Member or its directors, officers, employees, shareholders,
members, partners, agents, counsel, investment advisers or other representatives
(all such persons being collectively referred to as   Representatives  ) in violation
of this Agreement or any of the other Transaction Agreements, (ii) was available
to such Member on a non-confidential basis prior to its disclosure to such
Member or its Representatives by the Company or (iii) becomes available to such
Member on a non-confidential basis from a source other than the Company after
the disclosure of such information to such Member or its Representatives by the
Company, which source is (at the time of receipt of the relevant information)
not, to such Member s knowledge, bound by a confidentiality agreement with (or
other confidentiality obligation to) the Company or another Person;  provided  that,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,   Confidential Information   in
the possession of Comcast, GE or any of their respective Subsidiaries prior to
the date of this Agreement shall not by virtue of the  

92 

foregoing
exceptions in clauses (ii) or (iii) not be deemed Confidential Information and
Comcast and GE shall be obligated to keep or to cause to be kept such
information confidential in accordance with the provisions of this  Section 10.01  as fully as if they did not have access
to such information prior to the date of this Agreement but only received it
after the date of this Agreement. 

Section
10.02      .  Related Party
Transactions.   (a)  For so long as GE directly or
indirectly owns any Membership Interests, neither the Company nor any of its
Subsidiaries shall enter into any Related Party Transaction unless such
transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to the Company or such
Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction
by the Company or such Subsidiary with an unrelated Person (  Arm s Length
Terms  ). 

(b)     For
so long as GE directly or indirectly owns any Membership Interests, prior to the
Company or a Company Subsidiary entering into a proposed Related Party
Transaction involving annual payments or annual incurrence of obligations by the
Company or such Subsidiary in excess of $7.5 million, the Company shall provide
GE with a written notice (an   RPT Notice  ) containing a
summary of the material terms of such proposed transaction and shall provide GE
a reasonable opportunity to consult with representatives of the Company and
Comcast (including those senior employees of the Company and Comcast or their
Subsidiaries involved in the negotiation of such transaction) concerning such
proposed transaction.  Notwithstanding that an RPT Notice is not
required with respect to Related Party Transactions involving $7.5 million or
less as set forth above, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent the Company or
its management from notifying GE of such transactions or from discussing such
transactions with employees of GE or its Affiliates. 

(c)     Without
the prior written consent of GE, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries
shall enter into any Non-Ordinary Course Related Party Transaction. 

(d)     If
GE does not believe an Ordinary Course Related Party Transaction described in an
RPT Notice is on Arm s Length Terms, GE shall have ten Business Days from the
date of receipt of the relevant RPT Notice to deliver a written notice (an
  RPT Dispute Notice  ) to
Comcast and the Company to such effect, which notice shall specify the reasons
for GE s belief.  If GE does not deliver an RPT Dispute Notice during
such period, the relevant parties may enter into the relevant Related Party
Transaction on the same terms or on terms that are the same (other than in an
immaterial respect) as those described in the RPT Notice.  If GE does
deliver an RPT Dispute Notice during such period, the parties shall resolve the
dispute as described below. 

93 

(e)     Within
five Business Days of the delivery of the RPT Dispute Notice, each of Comcast
and GE shall select and appoint one senior executive to act as its
representative (each an   RPT
Dispute Representative  ) in connection with such dispute.  The
RPT Dispute Representatives shall promptly enter into good faith discussions (in
person or by telephone) to attempt to resolve the dispute.  The RPT
Dispute Representatives shall have the authority to enter into a binding
resolution of the dispute.  If GE does not select and appoint an RPT
Dispute Representative within the time period specified in this  Section 10.02(e) , Comcast shall have the right to
cause the Company or the applicable Company Subsidiary to enter into the
Ordinary Course Related Party Transaction on the terms set forth in the RPT
Notice or on terms that are the same (other than in an immaterial respect) as
those described in the RPT Notice.  If Comcast does not select and
appoint an RPT Dispute Representative within the time period specified in this
 Section 10.02(e) , Comcast shall be prohibited from
entering into the Related Party Transaction that is the subject of the
applicable RPT Dispute Notice. 

(f)     If
each of Comcast and GE does select and appoint an RPT Dispute Representative
within the time period specified in  Section
10.02(e)  but the RPT Dispute Representatives are unable to resolve the
dispute within seven Business Days of the later of their two appointments,
Comcast and GE shall select and appoint an independent third party with relevant
expertise in the type of Ordinary Course Related Party Transaction in dispute to
arbitrate the dispute within ten Business Days of the expiration of such
period.  If Comcast and GE are unable to select and appoint the
arbitrator within the specified period, Comcast shall deliver to GE in writing a
list of five potential arbitrators meeting the requirements set forth in this  Section 10.02(f)  and, within five Business Days of
receipt of such list, GE shall select and appoint the arbitrator from such
list.  If GE does not select and appoint the arbitrator in accordance
with the immediately preceding sentence, Comcast shall select and appoint the
arbitrator from such list within five Business Days of the expiration of the
period specified in the immediately preceding sentence. 

(g)     Within
30 calendar days of the selection of the arbitrator, the arbitrator shall
determine the Arm s Length Terms of the Related Party
Transaction.  The arbitration shall be conducted in New York, New York
under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association
in effect at the time of the arbitration, except as they may be modified herein
or by agreement of the parties.  The decision of the arbitrator as to
the Arm s Length Terms of the Ordinary Course Related Party Transaction shall be
binding on the parties.  All fees and disbursements of the arbitrator
shall be shared equally by Comcast and GE. 

(h)     After
the determination of the arbitrator pursuant to  Section
10.02(g) , Comcast shall have the right to cause the Company or the
applicable  

94 

Company
Subsidiary to enter into the Ordinary Course Related Party Transaction on the
terms determined by the arbitrator;  provided  that Comcast may
elect in its sole discretion not to enter into such Related Party Transaction on
such terms. 

(i)     If
GE does not believe an Ordinary Course Related Party Transaction that is not the
subject of an RPT Notice is on Arm s Length Terms, GE shall have ten Business
Days from the date GE obtains knowledge of the transaction to deliver an RPT
Dispute Notice.  In such case, the provisions contained in Sections
10.02(d) through  (h)  shall apply  mutatis mutandis ;  provided  that if the Ordinary
Course Related Party Transaction in question was entered into before GE
delivered its RPT Dispute Notice, then (x) any provision permitting Comcast to
cause the Company or the applicable Company Subsidiary to enter into a Related
Party Transaction on specific terms shall be deemed to permit the Company or the
applicable Company Subsidiary to continue such Related Party Transaction on such
terms and (y) any provision prohibiting Comcast from entering into a Related
Party Transaction on specific terms shall be deemed to require Comcast to (A)
terminate such Related Party Transaction or (B) amend the terms of such Related
Party Transaction such that it would be on Arms  Length Terms. 

(j)     Except
as expressly set forth in Sections  10.02(a)  and  10.02(b) , the provisions of this  Section 10.02  shall terminate and cease to be of
further effect at such time as GE s Percentage Interest is less than
10%. 

Section
10.03      .  Non-Competition.   (a)  Except
(i) with respect to their ownership of interests in the Company and (ii) as
permitted by this  Section 10.03  or by  Section 10.06 , neither Comcast nor GE nor any of their
respective Subsidiaries will engage in any Company Principal
Business.  This  Section 10.03  shall cease
to be applicable to any Person at such time as such Person is no longer a
Subsidiary of Comcast or GE, as the case may be, and shall not apply to any
Person that purchases assets, operations or a business from Comcast or GE, or
one of their respective Subsidiaries, if such Person is not a Subsidiary of
Comcast or GE, as the case may be, after such transaction is
consummated.  This  Section 10.03  does not
apply to any Subsidiary of GE or Comcast in which a Person who is not an
Affiliate of GE or Comcast, as the case may be, holds equity interests and with
respect to which GE or Comcast or another of their respective Subsidiaries, as
applicable, has contractual or legal obligations (including fiduciary duties of
representatives on the board of directors or similar body of such Subsidiary)
existing as of the date hereof that limit GE s or Comcast s ability to impose on
the subject Subsidiary a non-competition obligation such as that in this  Section 10.03 . 

(b)     Notwithstanding
the provisions of  Section 10.03(a) , and without
implicitly agreeing that the following activities would be subject to the
provisions of  Section 10.03(a) , nothing in this
Agreement shall preclude, prohibit or restrict:   

95 

(i)
GE, or any of its Subsidiaries, from engaging in any manner in any (A) Financial
Services Business, (B) Existing Business Activities, (C) GE De Minimis Business
or (D) Satellite Business; or (ii) Comcast or any of its Subsidiaries, from
engaging in any manner in any (A) Comcast Permitted Business or (B) Comcast De
Minimis Business. 

(c)     Notwithstanding
the provisions of  Section 10.03(a) , GE or any of
its Affiliates may make a Mixed Competing Business Acquisition;  provided  that if such
acquisition would otherwise be prohibited by this  Section 10.03 , promptly following such acquisition,
GE, or its Affiliate, as applicable, shall offer the Company in writing the
opportunity to acquire, or invest in, the Company Principal Business acquired,
or invested in, by GE or its Affiliate in such Mixed Competing Business
Acquisition.  The writing pursuant to which such offer is made shall
include a summary of the material terms of the offer, including the price of
such offer.  Such terms shall include (x) a price that reflects GE s
reasonable good faith determination of the portion of the aggregate purchase
price paid by GE or its Affiliate in the Mixed Competing Business Acquisition
that was attributable to the Company Principal Business included in such Mixed
Competing Business Acquisition and (y) other commercially reasonable arms 
length terms.  In the event that the Company disputes GE s
determination of price or the commercial reasonableness and arm s length nature
of the other terms included in such offer, the Company shall provide written
notice to GE and the dispute shall be resolved by a mutually agreed upon
appraiser (who shall be an independent third party with relevant expertise)
pursuant to an appraisal process not to exceed 30 calendar days and conducted in
New York, New York under the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American
Arbitration Association in effect at the time of the arbitration, except as they
may be modified herein or by agreement of the parties.  If an
appraisal process is necessary and Comcast and GE do not mutually select and
appoint such appraiser within five Business Days following delivery of the
notice required pursuant to the preceding sentence, an appraiser shall be
selected and appointed in the manner set forth in the final two sentences of  Section 10.02(f) .  All fees and
disbursements of the Appraiser shall be shared equally by Comcast and
GE. 

(d)     Promptly
after making a written offer as set forth in  Section
10.03(c)  above (and in any event within 10 Business Days thereafter), GE
shall provide the Company all material information available to GE with respect
to the Company Principal Business.  GE shall include in any third
party confidentiality agreement entered into in connection with the proposed
transaction subject to such offer a provision permitting GE to comply with its
disclosure obligations under this  Section
10.03(d) .  The Company shall have 10 Business Days from the later
of (i) the date all such information is provided and (ii) the completion of any
appraisal process conducted pursuant to  Section
10.03(c)  to decide whether to accept the offer. 

96 

(e)     If
prior to the expiration of such 10 Business Day period the Company accepts such
offer, the parties shall work together in good faith to complete the Company s
acquisition of, or investment in, the Company Principal Business as soon as
reasonably practicable, subject to receipt of required regulatory
approvals.  Notwithstanding the provisions in  Section 4.10(a) , HoldCo may not exercise any rights it
may have under  Section 4.10(a)  that would prohibit
or otherwise impede such Company Principal Business acquisition or investment
(including in connection with the incurrence of any Debt required to complete
such acquisition or investment). 

(f)     If
prior to the expiration of such 10 Business Day period the Company fails to
accept such offer, and the ownership of the Company Principal Business by GE or
its Affiliates would otherwise be prohibited by this  Section 10.03 , then GE or its Affiliate, as the case
may be, shall be required to divest the Company Principal Business within a
commercially reasonable period of time. 

(g)     The
Company s decision whether to accept such offer (or to grant any consent to
waive any rights of the Company in respect of such offer) shall be made by only
those members of the Board designated by the Comcast Members. 

(h)     This
 Section 10.03  shall terminate and be of no further
force and effect upon the earlier of (i) Comcast and its Subsidiaries no longer
holding (directly or indirectly) any Membership Interests or (ii) GE and its
Subsidiaries no longer holding (directly or indirectly) any Membership
Interests. 

Section
10.04      .  Structuring of an
IPO.   (a)  Prior to an IPO, the Members will form a
corporation (  Holding  )
into which each Member (other than HoldCo) will contribute such Member s
Membership Interests and into which GE and Comcast or any of their respective
Affiliates that own HoldCo Shares will contribute their respective HoldCo
Shares.  In lieu of the contribution by any of the Comcast Members
contemplated by the immediately preceding sentence, Comcast may contribute or
cause to be contributed the equity of such Comcast Member.  As a
result of such contributions, Comcast and its Affiliates (in the aggregate), GE
and its Affiliates (in the aggregate) and any Member that is not a Comcast
Member or HoldCo will receive shares of Holding (the   Common Stock  ) that correspond
to the relative Percentage Interests of Comcast, GE and such Member, as
applicable.  After the formation of Holding and the contributions
referred to above, (i) except where the context clearly requires otherwise, the
term,  Company , shall refer to Holding, (ii) the terms  Membership Interests 
and  Members  and similar terms that are applicable to limited liability
companies and used in this Agreement shall refer to the Common Stock, the
Holding shareholders and similarly corresponding terms applicable to the
corporate form and (iii) the parties agree to enter into, and to cause Holding
to enter into, an agreement setting forth, to the extent permitted by applicable
Law, shareholder rights and obligations equivalent to those applicable to
Members set  

97 

forth
in this Agreement.  For the avoidance of doubt, the registration
rights provided to GE, Comcast and their Affiliates pursuant to  Section 10.04(b)  shall be with respect to the Common
Stock received in exchange for the contributions by GE and Comcast described
above.  The parties shall cause such contributions to qualify as a
transaction described in Section 351 of the Code and shall not take any
action that would be reasonably likely to prevent such contributions from
qualifying as such a transaction. 

(b)     GE
and Comcast shall be entitled to the registration rights set forth on Exhibit
D. 

Section
10.05      .  Compliance by
Subsidiaries.   Each of Comcast and GE shall cause the Comcast
Members or HoldCo, as the case may be, to comply with their obligations under
this Agreement. 

Section
10.06      .  Acquisition of Company
Principal Businesses.   (a)   Prior to a Stand-alone
Competing Business Acquisition proposed by Comcast or any of its Affiliates or
promptly following any Mixed Competing Business Acquisition by Comcast or any of
its Affiliates, Comcast shall offer (a   Competing Business Offer  ) the
Company in writing the opportunity to acquire, or invest in, the Company
Principal Business proposed to be acquired, or invested in, by Comcast or its
Affiliate in such Stand-alone Competing Business Acquisition or acquired, or
invested in, by Comcast or its Affiliate in such Mixed Competing Business
Acquisition, as applicable.  The writing pursuant to which a Competing
Business Offer is made shall include a summary of the material terms of the
offer, including the price of such offer.  In the case of a
Stand-alone Competing Business Acquisition, the terms of the Competing Business
Offer shall be the terms negotiated between Comcast or its Affiliate, on the one
hand, and the applicable third party seller, on the other hand, with respect to
the proposed acquisition of, or investment in, the applicable Company Principal
Business.  In the case of a Mixed Competing Business Acquisition, the
terms of the Competing Business Offer shall include (x) a price that reflects
Comcast s reasonable good faith determination of the portion of the aggregate
purchase price paid by Comcast or its Affiliate in the Mixed Competing Business
Acquisition that was attributable to the Company Principal Business included in
such Mixed Competing Business Acquisition and (y) other commercially reasonable
arm s length terms.  In the event that the Company disputes Comcast s
determination of price or the commercial reasonableness and arm s length nature
of the other terms included in any such Competing Business Offer, the Company
shall provide written notice to Comcast and the dispute shall be resolved by a
mutually agreed upon appraiser (who shall be an independent third party with
relevant expertise) pursuant to an appraisal process not to exceed 30 calendar
days and conducted in New York, New York under the Commercial Arbitration Rules
of the American Arbitration Association in effect at the time of the
arbitration, except as they may be modified herein or by agreement of the
parties.  If an appraisal process is  

98 

necessary
and Comcast and GE do not mutually select and appoint such appraiser within five
Business Days following delivery of the notice required pursuant to the
preceding sentence, an appraiser shall be selected and appointed in the manner
set forth in the final two sentences of  Section
10.02(f) .  All fees and disbursements of the Appraiser shall be
shared equally by Comcast and GE. 

(b)     Promptly
after making a Competing Business Offer (and in any event within 10 Business
Days thereafter), Comcast shall provide the Company all material information
available to Comcast with respect to the applicable Company Principal
Business.  Comcast shall include in any third party confidentiality
agreement entered into in connection with the proposed transaction subject to
the Competing Business Offer a provision permitting Comcast to comply with its
disclosure obligations under this  Section
10.06(b) .  The Company shall have 10 Business Days from the later
of (i) the date all such information is provided and (ii) the completion of any
appraisal process conducted pursuant to  Section
10.06(a)  (the   Offering
Period  ) to decide whether to accept the Competing Business
Offer. 

(c)     If
prior to the expiration of the applicable Offering Period the Company accepts a
Competing Business Offer, the parties shall work together in good faith to
complete the Company s acquisition of, or investment in, the Company Principal
Business as soon as reasonably practicable, subject to receipt of required
regulatory approvals.  Notwithstanding the provisions in  Section 4.10(a) , HoldCo may not exercise any rights it
may have under  Section 4.10(a)  that would prohibit
or otherwise impede such Company Principal Business acquisition or investment
(including in connection with the incurrence of any Debt required to complete
such acquisition or investment), so long as such acquisition or investment is
completed in all material respects on the terms and conditions approved in
accordance with  Section 10.06(h) . 

(d)     If
prior to the expiration of the applicable Offering Period the Company fails to
accept a Competing Business Offer made with respect to a Stand-alone Competing
Business Acquisition in which the purchase price for the Company Principal
Business acquisition or investment is less than or equal to $500 million or, if
the applicable Threshold has not been exceeded or would not be exceeded as a
result of such Stand-alone Competing Business Acquisition, greater than $500
million, Comcast and its Affiliates shall thereafter (subject to  Section 10.06(i) ) be permitted to acquire, or invest
in, the applicable Company Principal Business on substantially the same terms as
were offered to the Company pursuant to the Competing Business
Offer. 

(e)     If
prior to the expiration of the applicable Offering Period the Company fails to
accept a Competing Business Offer made with respect to a Stand-alone Competing
Business Acquisition in which the purchase price for the Company Principal
Business acquisition or investment is greater than $500  

99 

million
and the applicable Threshold has been exceeded or would as a result of such
Stand-alone Competing Business Acquisition be exceeded, Comcast and its
Affiliates shall be prohibited from acquiring, or investing in, the applicable
Company Principal Business. 

(f)     If
prior to the expiration of the applicable Offering Period the Company fails to
accept a Competing Business Offer made with respect to a Mixed Competing
Business Acquisition in which the purchase price for the Company Principal
Business acquisition or investment is less than or equal to $500 million or, if
the applicable Threshold has not been exceeded or would not be exceeded as a
result of the Mixed Competing Business Acquisition, greater than $500 million,
Comcast or its Affiliate, as the case may be, shall (subject to  Section 10.06(i) ) be permitted to continue to own and
operate the applicable Company Principal Business. 

(g)     If
prior to the expiration of the applicable Offering Period the Company fails to
accept a Competing Business Offer made with respect to a Mixed Competing
Business Acquisition in which the purchase price for the Company Principal
Business acquisition or investment is greater than $500 million and the
applicable Threshold has been exceeded or would as a result of such Mixed
Competing Business Acquisition be exceeded, Comcast or its Affiliate, as the
case may be, shall be required to divest the applicable Company Principal
Business within a commercially reasonable period of time. 

(h)     The
Company s decision whether to accept a Competing Business Offer (or to grant any
consent to waive any rights of the Company in respect of a Competing Business
Offer) shall be made by only those members of the Board designated by
HoldCo.  If the Company fails to accept a Competing Business Offer,
for so long as HoldCo or any of its Affiliates directly or indirectly holds any
Membership Interests, neither HoldCo nor any of its Affiliates may pursue such
Competing Business Offer or acquire or invest in such Company Principal Business
in reliance on the GE De Minimis Business exception pursuant to  Section 10.03(b) (i)(C). 

(i)     Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained herein but subject to  Section 10.06(j) , prior to the 18-month anniversary of
the Closing Date, (x) neither Comcast nor any of its Affiliates may make a
Significant Investment in a Company Principal Business in a Stand-alone
Competing Business Acquisition and (y) Comcast or one of its Affiliates may make
a Significant Investment in a Company Principal Business in a Mixed Competing
Business Acquisition only if such Company Principal Business is divested within
a commercially reasonable period of time. 

(j)     Notwithstanding
any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, and without implicitly agreeing
that the following transactions would be subject  

100 

to
the provisions of this  Section 10.06 , this  Section 10.06  shall not be applicable to (x) any
transaction entered into by Comcast or its Affiliates prior to the date of this
Agreement in accordance with Section 6.22 of the Master Agreement, (y) any
acquisition of, or other investment in, a Comcast Permitted Business or a
Comcast De Minimis Business by Comcast or its Affiliates and (z) the acquisition
by Comcast or its Affiliates of all or a portion of the Weather Channel Business
pursuant to  Section 10.07 .  Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing and for the avoidance of doubt, in each
such case, the purchase price for any such transaction shall be disregarded when
determining whether the Threshold has been exceeded or would be exceeded as a
result of any other transaction. 

(k)     Except
as set forth in  Section 10.06(h) , the provisions of
this  Section 10.06  shall terminate and cease to be
of further effect at such time as GE s Percentage Interest is less than 20%
(calculated in accordance with  Section
4.10(d) ). 

Section
10.07     .   Weather
Channel.   (a)  If as a result of the consummation of
the transactions contemplated by the Master Agreement the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries become entitled to exercise an  NBCU Call Option  pursuant to
Section 4.6 of the Weather Channel Stockholders Agreement or a right of first
refusal pursuant to Section 4.4 of the Weather Channel Stockholders Agreement at
an earlier time than the Company or such Subsidiary would otherwise have been
entitled to exercise such right, at the election of Comcast, the Company or such
Subsidiary will, to the extent permissible, assign such right to Comcast or an
Affiliate of Comcast designated by Comcast and, if not permissible, will enter
into a mutually agreeable arrangement with Comcast or such Affiliate so that
Comcast or such Affiliate may acquire the applicable interest in the Weather
Channel Business on the same terms and conditions as the Company or such
Subsidiary would have been able to acquire such interest pursuant to such right;
 provided, however,  that
Comcast shall indemnify the Company and GE for any losses, claims, damages or
liabilities arising out of or in connection with such
arrangement.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no such
assignment or arrangement shall be deemed to be a Related Party Transaction, and
the provisions of  Section 10.02  shall not apply to
any such assignment or arrangement. 

(b)     For
the avoidance of doubt, if Comcast or any of its Affiliates purchases an
interest in the Weather Channel Business pursuant to  Section 10.07(a) , then, subject to the applicable
provisions of the Weather Channel Stockholders Agreement, Comcast or such
Affiliate may exercise any right relating to or in connection with its ownership
of such interest in the Weather Channel Business in its sole discretion and
without regard to any interest of the Company or any other Person therein and no
such exercise of any such right shall be subject to the provisions of  Section 10.02 . 

101 

ARTICLE
11   Financial
Reporting 

Section
11.01      .  Annual Financial
Information .  (a)  The Company agrees that, so long
as any member of the GE Group meets the Equity Method Threshold at any time
during any fiscal year, the Company shall deliver to GE: 

(i)     within
eight calendar days following the conclusion of such fiscal year, the estimated
consolidated net income of the Company and updated Agreed Adjustments, if
applicable, for such fiscal year; 

(ii)     in
accordance with the timeframe established by Comcast to satisfy its reporting
requirements, but in no event later than seven Business Days following the
conclusion of such fiscal year, the Corporate Reporting Data and updated Agreed
Adjustments, if applicable, for such fiscal year, subject to adjustment, if any,
pursuant to  Section 11.01(b) (ii); 

(iii)     within
five Business Days prior to the day the Company completes its audited annual
consolidated financial statements (the   Audited Financial
Statements  ), and, in any event, prior to the issuance of the Company s
audit opinion by the Company Auditors (the   Audit Opinion  ), a draft of
the final form of the Audited Financial Statements and a draft of the final form
of the Audit Opinion; and 

(iv)     upon
completion of the Audited Financial Statements and the Audit Opinion, a copy of
such Audited Financial Statements and the manually signed Audit
Opinion. 

If
requested by GE, the Company shall take commercially reasonable efforts to
provide to GE the Audited Financial Statements in compliance with Regulation S-X
under the Securities Act and to support the Company Auditors in providing
manually signed reports and consents with respect to the Audited Financial
Statements that are in compliance with Regulation S-X under the Securities Act,
in each case, to enable the GE Group to adhere to the disclosure requirements
therein should the Company qualify as a  significant investee  (as defined in
Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act) of GE.  In
addition, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide the
GE Group with any other information reasonably requested by GE to enable the GE
Group to timely comply with its reporting requirements under applicable Law and,
upon GE s reasonable request, the Company shall request that the Company
Auditors provide customary  comfort  letters and consents (at GE s expense) with
respect to any financial information provided by the Company pursuant to this  Article 11  that is included in any securities offering
by any member of the GE Group (and the Company shall use commercially reasonable
efforts to facilitate the provision thereof). 

102 

(b)     In
all events, the timeline for the preparation and delivery of the Audited
Financial Statements contemplated by  Section
11.01(a) (iii) to GE will be governed by the timeline set forth by Comcast s
reporting requirements under applicable Law.  If the Audited Financial
Statements are expected to be finalized subsequent to the filing of GE s Form
10-K for any fiscal year the Company shall (i) upon five Business Days  notice
by GE, in accordance with the provisions of  Section
11.03(a)(iii) , deliver the management representation letter referenced
therein to GE prior to the filing date of GE s Form 10-K for such fiscal year,
and (ii) inform GE in a timely manner of any issues (and shall promptly respond
to any inquiries or requests relating to such issues made by GE) that arise
(whether raised by the Company Auditors or otherwise) in connection with the
preparation of the Audited Financial Statements to ensure proper financial
reporting by GE of its investment in the Company. 

(c)     Following
such time when the GE Group no longer meets the Equity Method Threshold, the
Company agrees to furnish to GE as soon as practicable, the Company s unaudited
(or, if available, audited) consolidated balance sheet as at the end of such
fiscal year and the related unaudited (or, if available, audited) statements of
operations and cash flow for such fiscal year, and for the portion of the fiscal
year then ended, in each case prepared in accordance with GAAP and, if an audit
of the Company is performed, certified by the Company Auditors, together with a
comparison of the figures in such financial statements with the figures for the
previous fiscal year.  The provisions of this  Section 11.01(c)  shall terminate and be of no further
force and effect upon the earlier to occur of (i) an IPO and (ii) the date
on which no member of the GE Group holds any Membership Interests. 

Section
11.02      .      Quarterly Financial
Information .  (a)  The Company agrees that, so long
as any member of the GE Group meets the Equity Method Threshold at any time
during any fiscal quarter, the Company shall deliver to GE: 

(i)     within
four calendar days following the conclusion of such fiscal quarter, the
estimated consolidated net income of the Company and updated Agreed Adjustments,
if applicable, for such fiscal quarter; 

(ii)     in
accordance with the timeframe established by Comcast to satisfy its reporting
requirements, but in no event later than seven Business Days following the
conclusion of such fiscal quarter, the Corporate Reporting Data and updated
Agreed Adjustments, if applicable, for such fiscal quarter, subject to
adjustment, if any, pursuant to  Section
11.02(b) (ii); and 

(iii)     in
accordance with the timeframe established by Comcast to satisfy its reporting
requirements, the unaudited quarterly consolidated financial statements of the
Company (consisting of a balance sheet and  

103 

statements
of operations, changes in members equity, and comprehensive
income). 

(b)     If
the unaudited quarterly consolidated financial statements of the Company are
expected to be finalized subsequent to the filing of GE s Form 10-Q for any
fiscal quarter, the Company shall (i) upon five Business Days  notice by GE, in
accordance with the provisions of  Section
11.03(a)(iii) , deliver the management representation letter referenced
therein to GE prior to the filing date of GE s Form 10-Q for such fiscal
quarter, and (ii) inform GE in a timely manner of any issues (and shall promptly
respond to any inquiries or requests relating to such issues made by GE) that
arise in connection with the preparation of the Company s unaudited quarterly
consolidated financial statements to ensure proper financial reporting by GE of
its investment in the Company. 

(c)     Following
such time when the GE Group no longer meets the Equity Method Threshold, the
Company agrees to furnish to GE as soon as practicable, the Company s unaudited
consolidated balance sheet as at the end of each of the first three fiscal
quarters and the related unaudited statement of operations and cash flow for
such quarter and for the portion of the fiscal year then ended, in each case
prepared in accordance with GAAP, together with a comparison of the figures in
such financial statements with the figures for the comparable period of the
previous fiscal year.  The provisions of this  Section 11.02(c)  shall terminate and be of no further
force and effect upon the earlier to occur of (i) an IPO and (ii) the date
on which no member of the GE Group holds any Membership Interests. 

Section
11.03      .      Certain     Other Provisions Regarding Financial
Reporting .  (a)  The Company agrees that, so long as
any member of the GE Group meets the Equity Method Threshold during any
quarterly or annual period: 

(i)      Maintenance of Books and
Records .  The Company shall, and shall cause each of its
consolidated Subsidiaries to, (A) make and keep books, records and accounts,
which, in the good faith judgment of the Company, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries and (B) devise and maintain a
system of internal accounting controls which, in the good faith judgment of the
Company, is sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (x) transactions
are executed in accordance with management s general or specific authorization,
(y) transactions are recorded as necessary (1) to permit preparation of
financial statements in conformity with GAAP or any other standard applicable to
such statements and (2) to maintain accountability for assets and (z) access to
assets is permitted only in accordance with management s general or specific
authorization. 

104 

(ii)      Internal Audit and Company Auditors
Reports .  The Company and Comcast shall allow GE reasonable
access, upon GE s reasonable request, to reports and/or results of performance
of internal audit procedures performed by the internal audit functions of
Comcast or the Company with respect to the Company for the purpose of complying
with GE s reporting and disclosure obligations under applicable
Law.    Upon
GE s reasonable request,   the Company   shall deliver promptly to
GE copies of all reports submitted to t  he Company  by the Company Auditors (including, without limitation,
each report submitted to  the Company  or any
of its subsidiaries concerning its accounting practices and systems and any
comment letter submitted to management in connection with their annual audit and
all responses by management to such reports and letters) to the extent necessary
to facilitate  GE s compliance with its reporting and disclosure
obligations under applicable Law .  

(iii)      Management Representation
Letters .  For so long as the Company qualifies as a
 significant investee  (as defined in Rule 3-09 of Regulation S-X under the
Securities Act) of GE, the Company shall provide GE the annual or quarterly
management representation letter, as applicable, in form and substance that is
consistent with the financial reporting practices of Comcast and its
Subsidiaries and reasonably satisfactory to GE, which management representation
letter shall be signed by the President, Chief Financial Officer and Controller
of the Company and delivered to GE on a timeline that is consistent with the
issuance of annual and quarterly financial statements, as applicable, in
accordance with GE s reporting schedule. 

(iv)      Company Operating
Review .  The Company shall promptly deliver to GE any budget or
forecasting reports or updates completed in accordance with the internal
financial reporting processes of Comcast (  Budget and Forecasting
Reports  ), together with any adjustments to the Agreed Adjustments in
connection therewith to the extent known by the Company at the time of delivery
of the relevant Budget and Forecasting Reports.  The Company agrees to
deliver Budget and Forecasting Reports on at least a quarterly
basis. 

(b)      Fiscal
Periods .  The Company shall advise GE if, as of the Closing
Date, any Contributed Comcast Subsidiary (as defined in the Master Agreement)
has a fiscal year which ends on a date other than December 31.  Fiscal
period ends shall be as determined by Comcast and shall not be adjusted to
reflect any differences between fiscal period ends of Comcast and
GE.  The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain
a fiscal year which ends on December 31 and, so long as the Company is required
to deliver any financial information pursuant to Sections 11.01 and 11.02, shall
provide prompt written notice to GE in the event of any change to the Company s
fiscal year end. 

105 

Section
11.04       .       GE Annual Statements  .  In connection with any GE Group member s
preparation of its audited annual financial statements and its annual reports to
shareholders (collectively the    GE Annual Statements   ), during any fiscal year in which the members of the
GE Group meet the Equity Method Threshold,  the Company  agrees as follows:  

(a)       Coordination of Auditors 
Opinions      .  Notwithstanding any other provisions
hereof,     for
so long as the Company qualifies as a  significant investee  (as defined in Rule
3-09 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act) of GE, (i) the Company  will use its commercially reasonable efforts to
enable the  Company  Auditors to complete
their audit and issue their opinion on  the A udited Financial Statements in sufficient time to enable
GE to meet its timetable for the printing, filing and public dissemination of
the GE Annual Statements  , and (ii) the
Company and GE shall coordinate timing of their respective audits to allow for
the aforementioned timely filing and communication of the GE Annual
Statements.  

(b)       Access to Audit Personnel and
Working Papers      .      The
Company  will request the  Company
 Auditors to make available to the GE Auditors both
the personnel who performed or are performing the annual audit of  the
Company  and, consistent with customary
professional practice and courtesy of such auditors with respect to the
furnishing of work papers, work papers related to the annual audit of t he
Company  , in all
cases within a reasonable time after the   Company  Auditors  opinion date, so that the GE Auditors are able
to perform the procedures they consider necessary as it relates to the GE
Auditors  report on the GE Annual Statements.  

Section
11.05       .        Access      to Management Personnel and
Information  .    So long as any member of the GE Group meets
the Equity Method Threshold, the Company agrees to permit GE and the GE Auditors
to inspect, at GE s sole expense, all existing books and records of the Company
and its Subsidiaries, and to provide GE and the GE Auditors reasonable access to
the management and other relevant personnel of the Company and its Subsidiaries,
in each case, during regular business hours for any purpose reasonably related
to GE s status as a (direct or indirect) holder of Membership Interests;  provided  that the Company and
its Subsidiaries shall not be required to cooperate with any inspection or
access requests pursuant to this  Section 11.05  that
would unduly interfere with their business operations. 

Section
11.06       .        GE Public
Filings    .  The
Company  shall use commercially reasonable efforts
to assist GE, to the extent reasonably requested by GE, in the preparation of GE
Public Filings;   provided   that such assistance shall be limited to
information relating to the Company required to be disclosed in the relevant GE
Public Filing.   The Company  agrees to provide to GE information that is required to
be disclosed therein under applicable Law (including financial

106 

information
and financial statements of the Company and the Contributed Comcast Businesses
(as defined in the Master Agreement)) and, upon GE s reasonable request, the
Company shall request that the Company Auditors provide customary  comfort 
letters and consents (at GE s expense) with respect to any financial information
provided by the Company pursuant to this  Section
11.06  that is included in any securities offering by any member of the GE
Group (and the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to facilitate
the provision thereof) .     The Company  agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to provide
such information in a timely manner to enable GE to prepare, print and release
GE Public Filings on such dates as GE shall reasonably
determine.  

Section
11.07      .    Compensation for Providing
Information  .  The party
requesting information agrees to reimburse the other party for the reasonable
costs, if any, of creating, gathering and copying such information, to the
extent that such costs are incurred for the benefit of the requesting
party.  

Section
11.08      .    Liability  .  No party shall have any liability to any
other party in the event that any information exchanged or provided pursuant to
this Agreement which is an estimate or forecast, or which is based on an
estimate or forecast, is found to be inaccurate in the absence of willful
misconduct by the party providing such information.  No party shall
have any liability to any other party if any information is
destroyed.  

Section
11.09      .    Other Agreements Providing for
Exchange of Information.        The rights and obligations granted under this    Article 11    are subject to any specific limitations,
qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange, retention or
confidential treatment of information set forth in any other provision of this
Agreement (including    Article 10   ) or
any other Transaction Agreement.  

ARTICLE
12   Dissolution,
Liquidation and Termination 

Section
12.01      .  No
Dissolution.   The Company shall not be dissolved by the
withdrawal of any Member (subject to  Section
12.02(d) ) or the admission of Additional Members in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement. 

Section
12.02      .  Events Causing
Dissolution.   The Company shall be dissolved and its affairs
shall be wound up solely upon the first to occur of the following
events: 

(a)     subject
to  Section 4.10(a) , the determination of the
Members, by means of an affirmative vote of the Members holding a majority of
the outstanding Membership Interests, to dissolve and terminate the
Company; 

107 

(b)     the
sale of all or substantially all of the Company s assets; 

(c)     the
entry of a decree of judicial dissolution of the Company under
Section 18-802 of the Act; or 

(d)     at
any time when there are no Members, unless the Company is continued in
accordance with the Act. 

Section
12.03      .  Bankruptcy of a
Member.   The bankruptcy (within the meaning of Sections 18-101
and 18-304 of the Act) of a Member shall not cause such Member to cease to be a
Member, and upon the occurrence of such event, the Company shall continue
without dissolution.  The receivership or dissolution of a Member will
not in and of itself cause the dissolution of the Company, and upon the
occurrence of such event, the Company shall continue without dissolution under
the management and control of the remaining Members, unless there are no
remaining Members of the Company. 

Section
12.04      .  Winding
Up.   (a)  In the event of the dissolution of the
Company pursuant to  Section 12.02 , the Company s
affairs shall be wound up by a liquidating trustee of the Company selected by
the Board (in such capacity, the   Liquidating Agent  ), which
Liquidating Agent shall be an individual who is knowledgeable about the
Company s business and operations (to the extent possible) and has substantial
experience in the purchase and sale of businesses. 

(b)     Upon
dissolution of the Company and until the filing of a certificate of cancellation
as provided in Section 18-203 of the Act, the Liquidating Agent may, in the
name of, and for and on behalf of, the Company, prosecute and defend lawsuits,
whether civil, criminal or administrative, settle and close the Company s
business, dispose of and convey the Company s property or sell the Company (and
its Subsidiaries) as a going concern, discharge or make reasonable provision for
the Company s liabilities, and distribute to the Members in accordance with  Section 12.05  any remaining assets of the Company, all
without affecting the liability of Members and without imposing any liability on
any Liquidating Agent. 

(c)     Except
as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Members shall continue to share
distributions and allocations during the period of liquidation in the same
manner as before the dissolution. 

(d)     A
reasonable time period shall be allowed for the orderly winding up and
liquidation of the assets of the Company and the discharge of liabilities to
creditors so as to enable the Liquidating Agent to seek to minimize potential
losses upon such liquidation.  Subject to the provisions of  Section 12.05 , the Liquidating Agent shall have
reasonable discretion to determine the time, manner and terms of any sale or
sales of the Company s property pursuant to such  

108 

liquidation.  The
provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect during the
period of winding up and until the filing of a certificate of cancellation of
the Company with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. 

(e)     Upon
the completion of the winding up of the Company, any Director designated by the
Comcast Members or the Liquidating Agent or other duly designated representative
shall file a certificate of cancellation of the Company with the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware as provided in Section 18-203 of the
Act. 

Section
12.05      .  Distribution of
Assets.   (a)  As soon as practicable upon dissolution
of the Company, the assets of the Company (or liquidation proceeds) shall be
distributed in the following manner and order of priority (and ratably within
each level of priority): 

(i)     first,
to creditors of the Company, including Members who are creditors, to the extent
otherwise permitted by Law, in satisfaction of liabilities of the Company
(whether by payment or the making of reasonable provision for payment thereof)
other than liabilities for which reasonable provision has been made and
distributions to Members under  Article 8 ;
and 

(ii)     to
the Members in respect of their Membership Interests pro rata in accordance with
the positive balances in their Capital Accounts, after giving effect to all
contributions, distributions, allocations and adjustments for all
periods. 

(b)     It
is the intention of the parties that final Capital Account balances of the
Members in respect of their Membership Interests will permit liquidating
distributions to be made (after the satisfaction of the obligations of the
Company to creditors pursuant to  Section
12.05(a)(i)  hereof) pro rata in accordance with their respective Membership
Percentages.  The allocations and distributions provided for in this
Agreement are intended to result in the Capital Account of each Member in
respect of its Membership Interests immediately prior to the distribution of the
Company s assets pursuant to  Section 12.05(a)(ii) 
(after the satisfaction of the obligations of the Company to creditors pursuant
to  Section 12.05(a)(i) ) being equal to the amount
that would be distributable to such Member in accordance with its  

109 

Membership
Percentage.  The Company is authorized, to the extent possible, to
make appropriate adjustments to the allocation of items of income, gain, loss
and deduction as necessary to cause the amount of each Member s Capital Account
in respect of its Membership Interests immediately prior to the distribution of
the Company s assets pursuant to  Section
12.05(a)(ii)  (after the satisfaction of the obligations of the Company to
creditors pursuant to  Section 12.05(a)(i) ) to equal
the amount that would be distributable to such Member in respect of its
Membership Interests in accordance with its Membership
Percentage.  Notwithstanding  Section
12.05(a)(ii) , if the Company is unable to make allocations such that the
final Capital Account balances in respect of the Members  Membership Interests
are pro rata in accordance with the Members  Membership Percentages,
distributions to Members in respect of their Membership Interests pursuant to  Section 12.05(a)(ii)  shall be pro rata in accordance
with their respective Membership Percentages. 

(c)     The
Liquidating Agent shall have the power to establish any reserves that, in
accordance with sound business judgment, it deems reasonably necessary to pay
all claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional or unmatured
claims and obligations, which reserves may be paid over to an escrow agent
selected by the Liquidating Agent to be held by such agent for the purpose of
paying out such reserves in payment of the aforementioned contingencies and upon
the expiration of such period as the Liquidating Agent may deem advisable,
making a distribution of the balance thereof to the Members in the manner
provided in this  Section 12.05 . 

Section
12.06      .  Distributions in Cash
or in Kind.   Upon the dissolution of the Company, the
Liquidating Agent shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to liquidate all
of the Company assets in an orderly manner and apply the proceeds of such
liquidation as set forth in  Section 12.05 ;  provided  that if in the good
faith judgment of the Liquidating Agent, a Company asset should not be
liquidated, the Liquidating Agent shall distribute such asset, on the basis of
its value (determined in good faith by the Liquidating Agent), in accordance
with  Section 12.05 , subject to the priorities set
forth in  Section 12.05 , and  provided, further , that the
Liquidating Agent shall in good faith attempt to liquidate sufficient assets of
the Company to satisfy in cash (or make reasonable provision for) the debts and
liabilities referred to in  Section
12.05(a) . 

Section
12.07      .  Claims of the
Members.   The Members and former Members shall look solely to
the Company s assets for the return of their Capital Contributions, and if the
assets of the Company remaining after payment of or due provision for all debts,
liabilities and obligations of the Company are insufficient to return such
Capital Contributions, the Members and former Members shall have no recourse
against the Company, any Director, any other Member or, for the avoidance of
doubt, Comcast or GE.  No Member shall have any obligation to make any
Capital Contribution with respect to such insufficiency, and such insufficiency
shall not be considered a debt owed to the Company or to any other
Person. 

ARTICLE
13   Miscellaneous 

Section
13.01      .  Further
Assurances.   Each Member, Comcast and GE shall, upon the
request from time to time of the Company and without further  

110 

consideration,
do, execute and perform all such other acts, deeds and documents as may be
reasonably requested by the Company to carry out fully the purposes and intent
of this Agreement. 

Section
13.02      .  Amendment or
Modification.   (a)  This Agreement may be amended or
modified only with the written consent of (i) Comcast and (ii) GE;  provided  that, subject to  Section 13.02(b) , the consent of GE will not be
required from and after such time as GE s Percentage Interest is less than
10%. 

(b)     In
addition, any amendment or modification of this Agreement that (i) adversely
affects a Member or any of its Affiliates disproportionately to its effect on
the other Members and their Affiliates, (ii) diminishes a Member s express
rights under the terms of this Agreement, or (iii) imposes obligations on a
Member in a manner contrary to the express provisions of this Agreement, shall,
in each case, require the prior written consent of such Member. 

(c)     Notwithstanding
Sections  13.02(a)  and  13.02(b) , the Board of the Company may amend, without
the consent of Comcast, GE or any of the Members: 

(i)     this
Agreement solely in order to reflect the fact that a new Member admitted in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement has agreed to become bound by, and
subject to, this Agreement; 

(ii)     this
Agreement and the Certificate of Formation in order to change the name of the
Company to the extent such change of name is permitted pursuant to  Section 2.02 ; 

(iii)     Schedule
4.01 to this Agreement to reflect changes required pursuant to changes in the
Members (including the admission of Additional Members), Membership Interests,
Membership Percentages, and Percentage Interests of the Members in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement; and 

(iv)     this
Agreement, to reflect the terms of any equity interests in the Company and the
issuance thereof as provided in  Section
3.03(b) . 

Section
13.03      .  Waiver; Cumulative
Remedies.   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein,
any party may waive any right of such party under this Agreement by an
instrument signed in writing by such party.  Except as specifically
provided herein, the failure or delay of any Member to enforce at any time any
of the provisions of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver
of any such provision, nor in any way to affect the validity of this Agreement
or any part hereof or the right of any Member thereafter to enforce each and
every such provision.  No waiver of any breach of or non-compliance

111 

with
this Agreement shall be held to be a waiver of any other or subsequent breach or
non-compliance.  Except as specifically provided herein, all remedies,
either under this Agreement or by Law or otherwise afforded, will be cumulative
and not alternative. 

Section
13.04      .  Entire
Agreement.   This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement
between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and
supersedes and cancels all prior agreements, understandings, representations and
warranties, both oral and written, between the parties hereto with respect
thereto.  There are no agreements, undertakings, representations or
warranties of any of the parties hereto with respect to the transactions
contemplated hereby and thereby other than those set forth herein or therein or
made hereunder or thereunder. 

Section
13.05      .  Third Party
Beneficiaries.   Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied,
is intended to confer, nor shall anything herein confer, on any Person other
than the Company and the parties hereto, and their respective successors or
permitted assigns, any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities, except that
any Person who is entitled to exculpation, indemnification or advancement
pursuant to  Section 6.01  of this Agreement and is
not party to this Agreement shall be a third-party beneficiary of this Agreement
to the extent required for purposes of such  Section
6.01 ;  provided  that
all claims for indemnification shall be made only in the name and on behalf of
such Person by a Member. 

Section
13.06      .  Non-Assignability;
Binding Effect.   The provisions of this Agreement shall be
binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and permitted assigns;  provided  that no party may
assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under
this Agreement without the consent of each other party hereto (including for the
avoidance of doubt in connection with Transfers permitted hereunder) except that
in connection with (i) Transfers made by GE or any of its Affiliates in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement GE may assign or cause to be
assigned rights and obligations of GE and its Affiliates under  Section 3.07 ,  Article 9 
and Exhibit D ( provided 
that no such assignment shall relieve any party of any of its obligations
hereunder and  provided,
further , that if the Second Comcast Purchase Right has expired without
Comcast having exercised such Comcast Purchase Right or GE having sold or
permitted to be sold (or agreed to sell or permit to sell) any securities
representing GE s Percentage Interest immediately after the Closing, subject to
the last sentence of this  Section 13.06 , GE may in
connection with a Transfer of securities representing all of GE s Percentage
Interest assign or cause to be assigned all rights and obligations of GE and its
Affiliates under this Agreement), (ii) a Transfer made by Comcast and its

112 

Affiliates
of all (but not less than all) of the Membership Interests held by the Comcast
Members in accordance with the terms of this Agreement Comcast may assign or
cause to be assigned all of the rights and obligations of Comcast and its
Affiliates under this Agreement ( provided  that, except as set
forth in  Section 9.01(b)(iv) , no such assignment
shall relieve any party of any of its obligations hereunder) and (iii) a
Transfer made by Comcast and its Affiliates of Membership Interests held by the
Comcast Members in accordance with the terms of this Agreement Comcast may
assign or cause to be assigned rights and obligations of Comcast and its
Affiliates under Sections  3.07  and  9.07  and Exhibit D ( provided  that no such
assignment shall relieve any party of any of its obligations
hereunder).  Prior to any Transfer (and related assignment)
contemplated by the second proviso in clause  (i)  of
this  Section 13.06 , the applicable transferee must
certify in writing to Comcast and the Company that, immediately after giving
effect to such Transfer, such transferee and its Affiliates would be in
compliance with  Section 10.03  and expressly
covenant with Comcast and the Company that such transferee and its Affiliates
will comply with  Section
10.03 .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Agreement, no Transfer of HoldCo Shares otherwise permitted by the provisions of
this Agreement shall become effective unless the transferee of such HoldCo
Shares agrees in writing to be bound as a HoldCo Shareholder by the provisions
of Section 8(g) of the Tax Matters Agreement.  For the avoidance of
doubt, any Membership Interests or HoldCo Shares Transferred by GE or any of its
Affiliates (other than shares of Common Stock sold in a Public Offering or
pursuant to a Rule 144 Sale) shall remain subject to the Comcast Purchase Rights
pursuant to  Section 9.03  and the rights of Comcast
under Sections 9.06 ,
  9.07 
and 9.10   (it
being understood that shares of Common Stock sold in a Public Offering or
pursuant to a Rule 144 Sale shall not remain subject to any such rights) , and any
transferee of any such securities shall be obligated to participate in any
Back-End Transaction pursuant to    Section
9.08    (either by
agreeing to sell all New HoldCo Common Interests (as defined in Exhibit E-1)
held by such transferee to Comcast in accordance with Exhibit E-1 or by agreeing
to receive the same form and amount of consideration per security as GE and its
Subsidiaries)  and GE shall provide Comcast with notice promptly after
such Transfer of the manner in which such transferee has agreed to become
obligated to participate in any Back-End Transaction ,  in
each case, even if any of such Sections do not reference any of such securities
held by the transferees of GE or such Affiliate or any of such
transferees. 

Section
13.07      .  Severability.   Every
provision of this Agreement is intended to be severable.  If any term
or provision hereof is declared or held illegal or invalid, in whole or in part,
for any reason whatsoever, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of the remainder of the Agreement, and such provision
shall be deemed amended or modified to the extent, but only to the extent,
necessary to cure such illegality or invalidity.  Upon such
determination of illegality or invalidity, the parties hereto shall negotiate in
good faith to amend this Agreement to effect the original intent of the
parties.  In any event, the invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this  

113 

Agreement
in any jurisdiction shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the
remainder of this Agreement in that jurisdiction or the validity or
enforceability of this Agreement, including that provision, in any other
competent jurisdiction. 

Section
13.08      .  Injunctive
Relief.   The parties hereto hereby acknowledge and agree that a
violation of any of the terms of this Agreement will cause the other parties and
the Company irreparable injury for which an adequate remedy at law is not
available.  Accordingly, the parties hereto expressly agree that in
addition to any other remedy that each of the parties and the Company may be
entitled to in law or in equity, each of the parties hereto and the Company
shall, except as specifically provided otherwise in this Agreement, be entitled
to seek specific performance of the terms of this Agreement and any injunction,
restraining order or other equitable relief that may be necessary to prevent any
breach(es) thereof.  Furthermore, the parties expressly agree that if
any of the parties hereto, or the Company, institutes any action or proceeding
to enforce the provisions hereof, any other party against whom such action or
proceeding is brought shall be deemed to have expressly, knowingly, and
voluntarily waived the claim or defense that an adequate remedy exists at
law.  Each party hereby waives any requirement of any posting of
bond. 

Section
13.09      .  Governing
Law.   This  Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the provisions of the Act, and other applicable
Laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflicts of law
principles. 

Section
13.10      .  Submission to
Jurisdiction.   For the purposes of any suit, action or other
proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and subject to Sections
 9.02  and  10.02 , each
party to this Agreement irrevocably submits, to the fullest extent permitted by
Law, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Chancery Court of the State of
Delaware (or if unavailable, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware
or, if unavailable, the Delaware Superior Court) and the appellate courts having
jurisdiction of appeals in such courts.  For the purposes of any suit,
action or other proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, each
party irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by
Law, any objection to the laying of venue in the Chancery Court of the State of
Delaware (or if unavailable, any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware
or, if unavailable, the Delaware Superior Court), and hereby further irrevocably
and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by Law, and agrees
not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action, suit or proceeding
brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient
forum.  Each party irrevocably consents, to the fullest extent
permitted by Law, to service of process in connection with any such suit, action
or other proceeding by registered mail to such party at its address set forth in
this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of  Section 13.12 .  The consent to jurisdiction
set forth in this  

114 

Section 13.10  shall not constitute a general consent
to service of process in the State of Delaware and shall have no effect for any
purpose except as provided in this  Section
13.10 .  The parties hereto agree that a final judgment in any such
suit, action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other
jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by
Law. 

Section
13.11      .  Waiver of Jury
Trial.   EACH OF THE PARTIES HEREBY KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY
WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTERS (WHETHER SOUNDING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) IN ANY
WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH THIS AGREEMENT, THE
TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED
HEREUNDER. 

Section
13.12      .    Notices.   All
notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be given or made (and shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made upon receipt) by delivery in person, by overnight courier
service, by facsimile with receipt confirmed (followed by delivery of an
original via overnight courier service) or by registered or certified mail
(postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective parties at the
following addresses: 

If
to Comcast or any Comcast Member: 

Comcast
Corporation 

                        One
Comcast Center 

                        Philadelphia,
PA  19103 

                        Attention:
General Counsel 

                        Facsimile: 
(215) 286-7794 

And
a copy (which copy shall not constitute notice) to: 

Davis
Polk   Wardwell LLP 

                        450
Lexington Avenue 

                        New
York, NY 10017 

                        Attention:
David L.
Caplan               
  William
Aaronson 

                        Facsimile: 
(212) 450-3800 

                        Telephone:
(212) 450-4000 

If
to GE or HoldCo: 

General
Electric Company 

                        3135
Easton Turnpike, W3A24 

                        Fairfield,
CT  06828  

115 

Attention: 
Senior Counsel for Transactions 

                        Facsimile:
(203) 373-3008 

And
a copy (which copy shall not constitute notice) to: 

Weil,
Gotshal   Manges LLP 

                        767
Fifth Avenue 

                        New
York, NY 10153 

                        Attention:
Howard
Chatzinoff                
  R.
Jay Tabor 

                        Facsimile:
(212) 310-8007 

                        Telephone: (212)
310-8000 

If
to any other Member:  to such addresses reflected in the books and
records of the Company. 

By
written notice to the Company, any Member, Comcast or GE may change the address
to which notices shall be directed. 

Section
13.13      .  Counterparts.   This
Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and delivered by
facsimile or otherwise, each of which shall be deemed an original of this
Agreement and all of which together shall constitute one and the same
instrument. 

116 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date
first written above. 

COMCAST
      CORPORATION 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

[INITIAL
      COMCAST MEMBER 1] 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

[INITIAL
      COMCAST MEMBER 2] 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

[INITIAL
      COMCAST MEMBER 3] 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

GENERAL
      ELECTRIC COMPANY 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

NAVY
      HOLDINGS, INC. 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

117 

</EX-2.B>

<EX-4.Q>
 4
 ex4q.htm

ex4q.htm 

Exhibit 4(q)   

Kathryn
      A. Cassidy   

                Senior
      Vice President and GE Treasurer 

General
      Electric Company 

                3135
      Easton Turnpike 

                Fairfield,
      CT 06828 

Securities
and Exchange Commission 

      100 F
Street, NE 

      Washington,
DC 20549 

February
19, 2010 

Dear
Sirs: 

Neither
General Electric Company (the  Company ) nor any of its consolidated
subsidiaries has outstanding any instrument with respect to its long-term debt,
other than those filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, under which the total amount of
securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(iii)
of Item 601 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR Sec. 229.601), the Company hereby agrees
to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, a copy of
each instrument that defines the rights of holders of such long term debt not
filed or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. 

Very
truly yours, 

GENERAL
ELECTRIC COMPANY 

/s/
      Kathryn A. Cassidy 

Kathryn
      A. Cassidy 

Senior
      Vice President and GE Treasurer 

</EX-4.Q>

<EX-10.T>
 5
 ex10t.htm

ex10t.htm 

Exhibit
10(t)  

        STOCK
PURCHASE AGREEMENT  

between  

      GENERAL
ELECTRIC COMPANY  

      and  

      VIVENDI
S. A.  

      Dated
as of December 3, 2009 

Table of
Contents  

i 

Table of
Contents  

        (continued) 

ii 

STOCK
PURCHASE AGREEMENT 

This
STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of December 3, 2009 (this   Agreement  ), is by
and between General Electric Company, a New York corporation (  Buyer  ), and Vivendi
S. A., a  soci t 
anonyme    organized under the Laws
of France (  Seller  ). 

WHEREAS,
Seller owns 200 shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of
NBC Universal, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ) (such
shares, the   Shares   

WHEREAS,
Seller, Buyer and certain other parties named therein are parties to ( i ) the Amended
and Restated Liquidity Rights Agreement, dated as of December 14, 2006, as
amended (as amended, the   Liquidity Rights
Agreement  ), and ( ii ) the Stockholders
Agreement, dated as of May 11, 2004, as amended (as amended, the   Stockholders
Agreement   

WHEREAS,
concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, Buyer, the
Company and Comcast Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (  Crimson  ), are
entering into a Master Agreement, dated the date hereof (such agreement, as it
may hereinafter be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified by the
parties thereto from time to time, the   Master Agreement  ,
and together with all documents executed and delivered or to be executed and
delivered in connection with the Master Agreement, the   Crimson Transaction
Documents  ), pursuant to which, among other things, the Company shall, on
the terms set forth in the Crimson Transaction Documents, contribute its
business to a newly formed entity in which Crimson will acquire a controlling
equity interest (the transaction contemplated by the Crimson Transaction
Documents, as they may be amended, the   Crimson
Transactions   and 

WHEREAS,
Seller wishes to sell the Shares to Buyer, and Buyer wishes to purchase the
Shares from Seller, at either one or two closings as described herein, on the
terms and conditions described in this Agreement. 

NOW,
THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which the
parties acknowledge, the parties hereby agree as follows: 

1 

ARTICLE
I   DEFINITIONS 

Section
1.1      Certain
Terms .  The following terms have the respective meanings given
to them below: 

Action   has the
meaning set forth in Section 9.4(b)(i). 

Affiliate   means,
with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling,
controlled by, or under common control with such Person. 

Agreement   has the
meaning set forth in the Preamble. 

Aggregate Contingent First
Sale Purchase Price   has the meaning set forth in Section
2.4(c). 

Available Cash from
Operations   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a). 

Base Transaction Purchase
Price   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(c). 

Business Day   means
any day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or other day on which commercial banks
are required or authorized by Law to be closed in New York City, New
York. 

Buyer   has the
meaning set forth in the Preamble. 

Buyer Indemnitees  
has the meaning set forth in Section 8.2. 

Closing   means, as
the context requires, either the First Sale Closing or the Transaction
Closing. 

Closing Date   means,
as the context requires, either the First Sale Closing Date or the Transaction
Closing Date. 

2 

Company   has the
meaning set forth in the recitals. 

contract   means any
oral or written agreement, contract, commitment, instrument, undertaking or
arrangement. 

Crimson   has the
meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Crimson Transactions  
has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Crimson Transaction
Documents   has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Cumulative Target
Amount   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a). 

Current Transaction
Payment   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a). 

Excess Dividend
Amount   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(d). 

fiscal quarter   means
a fiscal quarter of the Company. 

First Sale   has the
meaning set forth in Section 2.1. 

First Sale Closing  
has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a). 

First Sale Closing
Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(a). 

First Sale Shares  
means 76.628352490 Shares. 

Governmental
Authority   means any nation or government, any state or other political
subdivision thereof, any entity, authority or body exercising executive,
legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining
to government, any court, tribunal or arbitrator, and any self-regulatory
organization. 

Indemnified Party  
has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5. 

3 

Indemnifying Party  
has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5. 

Law   means any
federal, state, local, municipal or foreign statute, law, ordinance, regulation,
rule, code, order, principle of common law, injunction, decree, arbitration
award, or judgment enacted, promulgated, issued, enforced or entered by any
Governmental Authority, or other requirement or rule of law. 

Lien   means, with
respect to any property or asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security
interest, lease, encumbrance, purchase price or other adverse claim of any kind
in respect of such property or asset. 

Liquidity Rights
Agreement   has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Litigation   means any
action, cause of action, claim, cease and desist letter, demand, suit,
arbitration proceeding, citation, summons, subpoena or investigation of any
nature, civil, criminal, regulatory or otherwise, in law or in
equity. 

Losses   means any
damage, loss, liability or expense (including reasonable expenses of
investigation, enforcement and collection and reasonable attorneys  and
accountants  fees and expenses in connection with any Litigation), whether or
not involving a third party claim. 

Master Agreement   has
the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Mutual Release   has
the meaning set forth in Section 5.9. 

Organizational
Documents   means the articles of incorporation, certificate of
incorporation, charter, bylaws, articles of formation, certificate of formation,
regulations, operating agreement, certificate of limited partnership,
partnership agreement, and all other similar documents, instruments or
certificates executed, adopted, or filed in connection with the creation,
formation, or organization of a Person, including any amendments
thereto. 

Person   means an
individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association,
trust or other entity or organization, including a government or political
subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof. 

4 

Post-Termination
Registration Notice   has the meaning set forth in Section
5.4(b). 

Prime Rate   has the
meaning set forth in Section 2.4(c). 

Pro Rata Portion   has
the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(a). 

Seller   has the
meaning set forth in the Preamble. 

Seller Indemnitees  
has the meaning set forth in Section 8.3. 

Shares   has the
meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Stockholders
Agreement   has the meaning set forth in the recitals. 

Subsidiary   means,
with respect to any Person, any entity of which securities or other ownership
interests ( i )
having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or
other persons performing similar functions or ( ii ) representing at
least 50% of such securities or ownership interests are at the time directly or
indirectly owned by such Person. 

Taxes   means all
taxes of any kind, including all federal, state, provincial, territorial,
municipal, local or foreign income, profits, franchise, gross receipts,
environmental (including taxes under Section 59A of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended), customs, duties, net worth, sales, use, goods and services,
withholding, value added, ad valorem, employment, social security, disability,
occupation, pension, real property, personal property (tangible and intangible),
stamp, transfer, conveyance, severance, production, excise and other taxes,
withholdings, duties, levies, imposts and other similar charges and assessments
(including any and all fines, penalties and additions attributable to or
otherwise imposed on or with respect to any such taxes, charges, fees, levies or
other assessments, and interest thereon) imposed by or on behalf of any taxing
authority, whether disputed or not. 

Third Party Claim  
has the meaning set forth in Section 8.5. 

Transaction Closing  
has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a). 

5 

Transaction Closing
Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a). 

Transaction Sale   has
the meaning set forth in Section 2.1. 

Transaction Shares  
means ( i ) if
the First Sale Closing occurs, the Shares other than the First Sale Shares and,
( ii ) if the
First Sale Closing does not occur, the Shares. 

Turnover Payment Trigger
Date   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4(d). 

Section
1.2      Construction .  The
words  hereof ,  herein  and  hereunder  and words of like import used in this
Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular
provision of this Agreement.  The words  party  or  parties  shall
refer to parties to this Agreement.  References to  transactions
contemplated hereby  shall refer to the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and, unless expressly stated otherwise, shall not refer to the
transactions contemplated by the Crimson Transaction Documents.  The
captions herein are included for convenience of reference only and shall be
ignored in the construction or interpretation hereof.  References to
Articles, Sections and Schedules are to Articles, Sections and Schedules of this
Agreement unless otherwise specified.  All Schedules annexed hereto or
referred to herein are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this Agreement
as if set forth in full herein.  Any capitalized term used in any
Schedule but not otherwise defined therein shall have the meaning given to such
term in this Agreement.  Any singular term in this Agreement shall be
deemed to include the plural, and any plural term the
singular.  Whenever the words  include ,  includes  or  including  are
used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words
 without limitation,  whether or not they are in fact following by those words
or words of like import.   Writing ,  written  and comparable terms
refer to printing, typing and other means of reproducing words (including
electronic media) in a visible form.  References to any agreement or
contract are to that agreement or contract as amended, modified or supplemented
from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof and
thereof.  References to any Person include the successors and
permitted assigns of that Person.  References from or through any date
mean, unless otherwise specified, from and including or through and including,
respectively.  Any reference to  days  means calendar days unless
Business Days are expressly specified.  If any action under this
Agreement is required to be done or taken on a day that is not a Business Day,
then such action shall be required to be done or taken not on such day but on
the first succeeding Business Day thereafter, provided that such delay to the
next Business Day shall not give rise to any payment rights or obligations that
would not otherwise have applied if the specified action could have been taken
on the day on which action was to have been taken.  If any action
under this Agreement is contemplated to be taken on an anniversary date but the
reference date is a month end for 

6 

which
there is no corresponding date in what would otherwise be the anniversary month,
such anniversary date shall be deemed to be the first date of the next month.
References to obligations to use  reasonable best efforts  shall not be
interpreted to require any party to incur out of pocket costs (other than costs
arising from the involvement of legal counsel and other advisors). 

ARTICLE
II   SALE
AND PURCHASE OF SHARES 

Section
2.1      Sale and Purchase of
Shares .  Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, ( i ) if the
Crimson Transactions have not been consummated by September 26, 2010, on
such date, at the First Sale Closing, Seller shall sell the First Sale Shares to
Buyer, and Buyer shall purchase the First Sale Shares from Seller (such purchase
and sale, the   First
Sale  ) for cash in an aggregate amount as specified in Section 2.4(b)
(plus, if the Transaction Closing occurs, on the Transaction Closing Date, the
Aggregate Contingent First Sale Purchase Price) and ( ii ) at the
Transaction Closing, Seller shall sell the Transaction Shares to Buyer, and
Buyer shall purchase the Transaction Shares from Seller (such purchase and sale,
the   Transaction
Sale  ) for cash in an aggregate amount as specified in Section
2.4(c). 

Section
2.2      First Sale
Closing . 

(a)     The
closing of the First Sale (the   First Sale Closing  )
shall take place at the offices of Weil, Gotshal   Manges, LLP, 767 Fifth
Avenue, New York, New York, 10153 at 10:00 a.m. on September 26, 2010 (the
  First Sale Closing
Date  ), subject to satisfaction or waiver on such date of all conditions
to the First Sale Closing set forth in Sections 6.1 through 6.3 hereof, and
provided that ( i ) if the Transaction
Closing occurs on or prior to the First Sale Closing Date, the First Sale shall
not occur and ( ii ) if the conditions
to Buyer s obligations to consummate the First Sale Closing set forth in
Sections 6.1 and 6.2 hereof are not satisfied or waived on or prior to the First
Sale Closing Date, the First Sale shall not occur. 

(b)     At
the First Sale Closing, ( i ) Seller shall
deliver to Buyer, free and clear of any Liens, the First Sale Shares and one or
more certificates representing all of the First Sale Shares, duly endorsed in
blank or accompanied by stock powers or other instruments of transfer duly
executed in blank, and bearing or accompanied by all requisite stock transfer
stamps, and ( ii ) Buyer shall pay
to Seller the amount referred to in Section 2.4(b) in accordance with such
Section. 

7 

Section
2.3      Transaction
Closing . 

(a)     The
closing of the Transaction Sale (the   Transaction Closing  )
shall take place at the offices of Weil, Gotshal   Manges, LLP, 767 Fifth
Avenue, New York, New York, 10153 at 10:00 a.m. on the date (the   Transaction Closing
Date  ) on the first Business Day on which the conditions to the
Transaction Closing set forth in Article VI are satisfied or
waived. 

(b)     At
the Transaction Closing, ( i ) Seller shall
deliver to Buyer, free and clear of any Liens, the Shares and one or more
certificates representing all of the Shares (in each case other than any Shares
previously purchased at a First Sale Closing), duly endorsed in blank or
accompanied by stock powers or other instruments of transfer duly executed in
blank, and bearing or accompanied by all requisite stock transfer stamps, and
( ii ) Buyer
shall pay to Seller the amounts referred to in Section 2.4(c) in accordance with
such Section. 

Section
2.4      Payments . 

(a)      Transaction
Payments .  No later than the 35th day after the last day of
each of the final fiscal quarter in 2009 and each fiscal quarter thereafter
ending prior to or on the earlier of ( x ) the Transaction
Closing Date and ( y ) the later of
September 26, 2010 and the date on which the Master Agreement is terminated,
Buyer shall pay to Seller, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an
account designated by Seller at least two Business Days prior to such payment
date, an amount equal to the aggregate Current Transaction Payment, if any, in
respect of the preceding fiscal quarter.  For purposes of this Section
and all other provisions of this Agreement: 

Current Transaction
Payment   means, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter (or, with
respect to the fiscal quarter, if any, in which the Transaction Closing occurs,
as of the Transaction Closing Date), an amount with respect to each Share held
by Seller as of the applicable date equal to the excess, if any, of ( i ) one two-hundredth
of the greater of ( x ) the Cumulative
Target Amount as of such date and ( y ) 20 percent of
Available Cash from Operations for the period from September 28, 2009 through
such date over ( ii ) the cumulative
amount of dividends paid and other Current Transaction Payments made with
respect to such Share from and after the date hereof and prior to the date
payment of the Current Transaction Payment is to be made.  For the
avoidance of doubt, for purposes of calculating the Current Transaction Payment
for the fiscal quarter ending 

8 

September
26, 2010, the Shares held by the Seller shall be those Shares held by the Seller
prior to giving effect to the First Sale. 

Cumulative Target
Amount   means, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, the cumulative
target amount set forth on  Schedule 1.1  for such
fiscal quarter; and, with respect only to the Transaction Closing Date, the sum
of (i) the Pro Rata Portion of the quarterly target amount set forth on
Schedule 1.1 for the fiscal quarter during which Transaction Closing occurs plus
(ii) the cumulative target amount set forth on Schedule 1.1 for the fiscal
quarter ended immediately preceding the fiscal quarter in which the Transaction
Closing occurs. 

Pro Rata Portion  
means on the Transaction Closing Date, with respect to a quarterly target
amount, the product of such quarterly amount and a fraction, the numerator of
which is the total number of days that have elapsed within such fiscal quarter
prior to and including such date and the denominator of which is the total
number of days in such fiscal quarter. 

Available Cash From
Operations   means, with respect to any period, cash generated from
operations of the Company during such period and available for payment of
dividends, determined in a manner consistent with past practice after due
consideration for all future cash needs of the Company, but excluding all costs
and cash needs incurred or arising pursuant to the Crimson Transaction
Documents. 

(b)      First Closing
Payment .  At the First Sale Closing, Buyer shall pay to Seller
$2 billion by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account
designated by Seller at least two Business Days prior to such
date.  Ten days following the First Sale Closing, Buyer shall deliver
to Seller a certificate of Buyer s Chief Financial Officer or one of his or her
direct reports certifying to the amount of Available Cash From Operations as of
the First Sale Closing Date. 

(c)      Transaction Closing
Payment .  At the Transaction Closing, Buyer shall pay to
Seller, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to any account
designated by Seller at least two Business Days prior to such date, an amount
equal to the Base Transaction Purchase Price plus an amount equal to Buyer s
estimate, based on reasonably available information at such time, of the Current
Transaction Payment for the Transaction Closing Date plus, if the First Sale
Closing has occurred prior to the Transaction Closing, the Aggregate Contingent
First Sale Purchase Price.  At such time as the final post-closing
purchase price adjustments have been made to amounts payable  

9 

at
the closing under the Crimson Transaction Documents, Buyer shall deliver to
Seller a certificate of Buyer s Chief Financial Officer or one of his or her
direct reports certifying to the amount of Available Cash from Operations as of
the Transaction Closing Date, and Buyer shall pay to Seller, or Seller shall pay
to Buyer, as the case may be, the amount by which the actual Current Transaction
Payment for the Transaction Closing Date exceeds or is less than the estimate of
such amount utilized at the Transaction Closing, in either case together with
interest thereon accruing from the Transaction Closing Date to the date of
payment at the Prime Rate.  The payment obligations under this Section
2.4(c) will apply in lieu of any obligation to pay the Current Transaction
Payment for the fiscal quarter during which the Transaction Closing
occurs.  For purposes of this Section and all other provisions of this
Agreement: 

Base Transaction Purchase
Price   means an amount equal to the product of ( i ) $29,000,000 and
( ii ) the number
of Transaction Shares. 

Prime Rate   means the
rate of interest per annum equal to the rate of interest published from time to
time by the Wall Street Journal as the prime rate at the large U.S. money center
banks. 

Aggregate Contingent First
Sale Purchase Price   means $222,222,222. 

(d)      Turnover
Payment .  In the event that the Transaction Closing does not
occur, following the later of (x) the termination of this Agreement and (y) the
36th day following the First Sale Closing (the later of (x) or (y), the   Turnover Payment Trigger
Date  ), the Seller shall pay to Buyer, as hereinafter set forth, an
amount (the "Turnover Amount") equal to the lesser of (i) the aggregate
Transaction Payments made with respect to any Share held by Seller or any of its
Affiliates as of such date and (ii) the sum of (A) such Share s allocable share
of the amount of Available Cash from Operations for the period from September
28, 2009 through the fiscal quarter ending on or prior to the Turnover Payment
Trigger Date that was not distributed prior to such date and (B) the Excess
Dividend Amount with respect to such Share.  Seller shall be obligated
to pay the Turnover Amount solely out of dividends received by Seller following
the Turnover Payment Trigger Date and shall make payments in respect of such
obligation until the Turnover Amount shall have been paid in full, with each
such payment being made within two Business Days following the payment of any
dividend to Seller or any of its Affiliates on any Share. 

Excess Dividend
Amount   means with respect to any Share, the excess (if any) of (i) the
sum of the dividends paid on such Share during the period from 

10 

September
28, 2009 through the Turnover Payment Trigger Date and the aggregate Current
Transaction Payments paid on such Share over (ii) the greater of (A) the
cumulative target amount through the fiscal quarter ending on or prior to the
Turnover Payment Trigger Date divided by 200 and (B) the Available Cash from
Operations from September 28, 2009 through the fiscal quarter ending on or prior
to the Turnover Payment Trigger Date divided by 1000. 

ARTICLE
III 

REPRESENTATIONS
AND WARRANTIES OF SELLER 

Seller
hereby represents and warrants to Buyer, as of the date hereof and as of the
applicable Closing Date, as follows: 

Section
3.1      Status .  Seller
is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its organization, except for any failure to be in good standing
that would not reasonably be expected to hinder or delay the consummation of the
First Sale or the Transaction Sale. 

Section
3.2      Authority;
etc .  Seller has full power and authority to execute, deliver
and perform its obligations under this Agreement.  The execution,
delivery and performance of this Agreement have been duly and validly authorized
and approved by all necessary action of Seller and no additional authorization
or consent is required under its Organizational Documents in connection with the
execution, delivery and performance by it of this Agreement.  This
Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of Seller, enforceable
against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent enforcement may be
limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer,
reorganization, moratorium and similar Laws of general applicability affecting
the rights of creditors and general principles of equity (regardless of whether
such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in
equity). 

Section
3.3      Governmental Authorization;
Non-Contravention .  The execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement by Seller and the consummation by it of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement to which Seller is a party will not ( i ) conflict
with, or constitute a material default under, or result in a material breach of,
or result in the termination, cancellation, modification or acceleration
(whether after the filing of notice or the lapse of time or both) of any
material right or obligation of Seller under any material contract or other
instrument to which Seller is a party, ( ii ) require the
consent, authorization, approval or waiver of, or any registrations or filings
with or notices to, any Person, ( iii ) violate any
provision of Seller s Organizational Documents or  

11 

( iv ) violate or
result in a breach of, or constitute a default under, any Law or order to which
Seller is subject, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), as would not
reasonably be expected to impair or delay the ability of the Seller to
consummate the transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations under,
this Agreement. 

Section
3.4      Title to
Shares .  Seller owns the Shares (except, as of the Transaction
Closing Date, for any Shares purchased at the First Sale Closing), beneficially
and of record, free and clear of any Lien (other than those Liens arising under
the terms of the Stockholders Agreement, which shall be terminated at the
Transaction Closing).  Upon delivery of and payment for the Shares at
the Closing, Buyer will acquire good and valid title to all of the Shares
(except, as of the Transaction Closing Date, for any Shares purchased at the
First Sale Closing), free and clear of any Lien (other than those set forth in
the Stockholders Agreement, which shall be terminated at the Transaction
Closing).  The Shares constitute all equity interests in the Company
owned or held by Seller or any of its Affiliates. 

Section
3.5      No Judgments,
Litigation .  There is no outstanding judgment, order, writ,
injunction, decree or award of any Governmental Authority, or any civil,
criminal or administrative action, claim, litigation, arbitration,
investigation, hearing or other proceeding of or before any Governmental
Authority or arbitrator pending or, to the knowledge of Seller, threatened,
against either Seller or any of its Affiliates which questions the validity of
any of the transactions contemplated hereby or any action taken or to be taken
pursuant to this Agreement or in which it is sought to restrain or prohibit any
such transactions or to obtain damages or other relief in connection with this
Agreement except in each case, as would not, individually or the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to impair or delay the ability of the Seller to
consummate the transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations under,
this Agreement. 

Section
3.6      Finders 
Fees .  Except for Barclays Capital, whose fees and expenses
will be paid by Seller, there is no investment banker, broker, finder or other
intermediary retained by or authorized to act on behalf of Seller or any of its
Affiliates who might be entitled to any fee or commission from Buyer or any of
its Affiliates upon consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby,
provided that the pendency of a claim for fees and commissions that would not
reasonably be expected to hinder or delay the consummation of the First Sale or
the Transaction Sale shall not constitute a material breach of this
representation and warranty solely for purposes of Section 6.2(a). 

12 

ARTICLE
IV 

REPRESENTATIONS
AND WARRANTIES OF BUYER 

Buyer
hereby represents and warrants to Seller, as of the date hereof and as of the
applicable Closing Date, as follows: 

Section
4.1      Status .  Buyer
is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
jurisdiction of its organization, except for any failure to be in good standing
that would not reasonably be expected to hinder or delay the consummation of the
First Sale or the Transaction Sale. 

Section
4.2      Authority;
etc .  Buyer has full power and authority to execute, deliver
and perform its obligations under this Agreement.  The execution,
delivery and performance of this Agreement have been duly and validly authorized
and approved by all necessary action of Buyer and no additional authorization or
consent is required under the Organizational Documents of Buyer in connection
with the execution, delivery and performance by them of this
Agreement.  This Agreement is a legal, valid and binding obligation of
Buyer, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except to the extent
enforcement may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent
transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar Laws of general applicability
affecting the rights of creditors and general principles of equity (regardless
of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in
equity). 

Section
4.3      Governmental Authorization;
Non-Contravention .  The execution, delivery and performance of
this Agreement by Buyer and the consummation by Buyer of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement will not ( i ) conflict
with, or constitute a material default under, or result in a material breach of,
or result in the termination, cancellation, modification or acceleration
(whether after the filing of notice or the lapse of time or both) of any
material right or obligation of Buyer under any material contract or other
instrument to which Buyer is a party, ( ii ) require the
consent, authorization, approval or waiver of, or any registrations or filings
with or notices to, any Person, ( iii ) violate any
provision of the Organizational Documents of Buyer or ( iv ) violate or
result in a breach of, or constitute a default under, any Law or order to Buyer
is subject, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), as would not reasonably
be expected to impair or delay the ability of the Buyer to consummate the
transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations under, this
Agreement. 

Section
4.4      No Judgments,
Litigation .  There is no outstanding judgment, order, writ,
injunction, decree or award of any Governmental Authority, or any civil,
criminal or  

13 

administrative
action, claim, litigation, arbitration, investigation, hearing or other
proceeding of or before any Governmental Authority or arbitrator pending or, to
the knowledge of Buyer or the Company, threatened, against either Buyer or the
Company or any of their Affiliates which questions the validity of the
transactions contemplated hereby or any action taken or to be taken pursuant to
this Agreement or in which it is sought to restrain or prohibit such
transactions or to obtain damages or other relief in connection with this
Agreement except in each case, as would not, individually or the aggregate,
reasonably be expected to impair or delay the ability of the Buyer to consummate
the transactions contemplated by, or perform its obligations under, this
Agreement. 

Section
4.5      Finders 
Fees .  There is no investment banker, broker, finder or other
intermediary retained by or authorized to act on behalf of Buyer or any of its
Affiliates who might be entitled to any fee or commission from Buyer or any of
its Affiliates as a result of consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby. 

ARTICLE
V 

CERTAIN
COVENANTS 

Section
5.1      Crimson
Transactions . 

(a)     Seller
on behalf of itself and its Affiliates hereby ( i ) irrevocably
(subject only to Section 7.2 and Section 7.3) waives and releases any right of
veto, objection or consent it may have under contract or arising under Law
arising from or relating to the Crimson Transactions, ( ii ) agrees to vote
the Shares and take all actions and furnish all consents and approvals necessary
or desirable (including attendance at meetings in person or by proxy for
purposes of obtaining a quorum and execution of written consents in lieu of
meetings) to obtain any required corporate approvals or to assist in the
consummation of all transactions contemplated by the Crimson Transaction
Documents, including, but not limited to, any financing transaction contemplated
by the Crimson Transaction Documents or any transaction referred to in Section
5.3, provided that Seller shall not be required to take any action that would be
materially adverse to Seller and its Affiliates and ( iii ) agrees to
cooperate with requests to take any other actions reasonably necessary to
facilitate the closing of the First Closing and the Transaction Closing,  provided  that
(x) Seller and its Affiliates shall not be required to become a party to
any agreement or to otherwise incur or assume any liability in respect of the
Crimson Transactions or arising under or related to a Crimson Transaction
Document or any transaction referred to in Section 5.3 and (y) the
foregoing waiver and release shall not (A) be effective with respect to any

14 

amendments
to the Crimson Transaction Documents after the date hereof to the extent such
amendments constitute or require actions to occur prior to the Transaction
Closing which would both ( I ) be subject to
rights of Seller and its Affiliates under Section 3.1(a)(ii) or Section
3.1(a)(iii) of the Stockholders Agreement and ( II ) be
materially adverse to Seller and its Affiliates or (B) in the event the Crimson
Transaction is terminated, be deemed to constitute a waiver of any objection
asserted by Seller or its Affiliates under the Stockholders Agreement or Law
regarding any matter that did not arise from the Crimson
Transaction. 

(b)     Subject
to clause (y) in the foregoing Section 5.1(a), Seller shall not exercise or
permit to be exercised by any of its Affiliates any right of veto, objection or
consent set forth in the Stockholders Agreement in any manner that could delay,
retard or frustrate the consummation of the Crimson Transactions. 

(c)     Without
limiting any rights Seller may have pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement to
information or access, Buyer shall provide Seller with updates from time to time
regarding the status of the Crimson Transactions (including prompt notice of the
execution of any amendment, supplement, waiver or other modification of the
Master Agreement, and, if requested by Seller, copies thereof) and progress
towards the satisfaction of closing conditions under the Crimson Transaction
Documents, provided that all such information shall be treated by Seller as
 Confidential Information  as defined in and in accordance with Section 4.3 of
the Stockholders Agreement. 

(d)     In
the event the Master Agreement is terminated and Buyer or any of its Affiliates
(other than the Company or one of its Subsidiaries) collects cash proceeds as a
result of damage claims asserted against Crimson or any of its Affiliates in
respect of any breach of the Crimson Transaction Documents, Buyer shall remit to
Seller promptly following Buyer s or its Affiliates  receipt thereof, 12.34
percent of the net amount of such damage claim proceeds. 

Section
5.2      Restrictions on
Transfer .  Notwithstanding any rights granted under the
Stockholders Agreement, Seller hereby agrees it shall not Transfer any of the
Shares to a Permitted Transferee (as defined in the Stockholders Agreement)
prior to the earlier of any Transaction Closing or the termination of this
Agreement. 

Section
5.3      Other
Transactions .  The waiver and release of any and all rights of
veto, objection or consent that Violet and its Affiliates have granted with
respect to the  

15 

Crimson
Transactions pursuant to Section 5.1 are hereby also granted irrevocably
(subject only to Sections 7.2 and 7.3),  mutatis mutandis , with effect
from and after September 26, 2010 (subject only to Sections 7.2 and 7.3), with
respect to any other transaction that would otherwise be subject to Section
3.1(a)(i) of the Stockholders Agreement except in the case of any transaction (a
  Subject
Transaction  ) which, in the reasonable opinion of two Nationally
Recognized Investment Banks (as defined in the Liquidity Rights Agreement)
selected by the Vivendi Group, would make the consummation of an underwritten
public offering (as referred to and described in the Liquidity Rights Agreement)
of the Company (during the pendency of and immediately following the Subject
Transaction) unable to be achieved except at a valuation that would be
substantially below the valuation that could be achieved in such an underwritten
public offering of the Company immediately prior to the entry into the Subject
Transaction (it being understood and agreed that the Crimson Transaction would
enable an underwritten public offering of the Company to be achieved at a
valuation that is not substantially below the valuation of the Company
immediately prior to the entry into the Master Agreement), provided that the
foregoing exception shall not apply (and such waiver and release shall be
applicable) to (A) any transaction substantially similar to the Crimson
Transactions (including with Time Warner, News Corporation or Crimson), or (B)
any sale, merger or consolidation of the Company following which the Vivendi
group holds solely cash and marketable securities (or securities that would be
marketable upon exercise of registration rights available within 180 days
following consummation of such transaction) and in which Vivendi receives the
same consideration for its equity (measured on a per share basis) as does
Parent). 

Section
5.4      Liquidity
Right . 

(a)     Seller,
on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, hereby irrevocably waives any right to
deliver any notice or to exercise any rights that may arise under Section 2.1 of
the Liquidity Rights Agreement between the date hereof and the expiration of the
period, if any, during which a Post-Termination Registration Notice, if any, may
be delivered pursuant to Section 5.4(b). 

(b)     In
the event the Crimson Transaction Documents are terminated, then, during the 15
day period following the later of ( i ) the date of such
termination and ( ii ) January 1,
2011, Seller shall have the right to deliver a  Special Registration Notice  as
defined in and in accordance with the Liquidity Rights Agreement (other than the
requirement that such notice be provided between November 15 and December 10 of
a calendar year).  Any such notice delivered pursuant to the
immediately preceding sentence is referred to herein as a   Post-Termination
Registration Notice   and shall be treated as any other Special
Registration Notice that may be submitted pursuant to the Liquidity Rights

16 

Agreement
except as provided herein.  The terms of the Liquidity Rights
Agreement shall apply  mutatis
mutandis  to the Post-Termination Registration Notice, provided that
( i ) the process
for determining  Fully Distributed Public Market Value  under Section 5.1 of the
Liquidity Rights Agreement, including the engagement of Appraisers (as defined
in the Liquidity Rights Agreement) shall commence immediately upon receipt of a
Post-Termination Registration Notice, ( ii ) the proviso
to Section 5.1(d) of the Liquidity Rights Agreement regarding the timing of the
delivery of appraisals shall not apply and ( iii ) the
registration milestones set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 2.1(b)
of the Liquidity Rights Agreement shall not apply and clause (iv) shall be
deemed modified to require consummation of the requested offering no later than
the five month anniversary of delivery of the Post-Termination Registration
Notice rather than September 30 of a Registration Year (as defined in the
Liquidity Rights Agreement) (subject, for the avoidance of doubt, to the same
qualifications on such timing obligation as would apply under the Liquidity
Rights Agreement in the case of a registration required to be consummated by
September 30); provided that, (x) such period shall be extended (but not for
more than 45 days) if reasonably necessary to comply with financial statement
requirements of the Securities   Exchange Commission and (y) in the event
that the period for consummation of the requested offering would end (A) in the
last week in August or the week in which the holiday known as  Labor Day 
occurs, such period shall be extended to the end of the week after the week in
which Labor Day occurs or (B) between December 15 through January 7, such period
shall be extended to the end of the second full week in such
January.  Except as provided in this Section 5.4, the Liquidity Rights
Agreement remains in full force and effect in accordance with its terms as of
the date hereof. 

(c)      Buyer shall cause
the Company to c omply with any obligations under the LRA incident to the
rights granted to Seller under this  Section   5.4.  

Section
5.5      Reasonable Best
Efforts . 

(a)     Each
party shall use its reasonable best efforts to take or cause to be taken all
actions, and to do or cause to be done all things that are necessary, proper or
advisable in order for such party to fulfill and perform its respective
obligations in respect of this Agreement, to cause the conditions to its
respective obligations set forth in Article VI to be fulfilled and otherwise to
consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated hereby. 

17 

(b)     Each
party shall, as promptly as practicable, ( i ) make, or cause to
be made, all filings and submissions required under any Law applicable to such
party or any of its Affiliates, and give such reasonable undertakings as may be
required in connection therewith and ( ii ) use reasonable
best efforts to obtain, or cause to be obtained, all consents, authorizations
and approvals from all Governmental Authorities necessary to be obtained by such
party or any of its Affiliates, in each case in connection with this Agreement
or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. 

Section
5.6      Notice of Certain
Events .  From and after the date hereof until the Closing Date,
each party shall promptly notify the other party of the occurrence of any breach
by such party of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained
in this Agreement that is reasonably likely to make the satisfaction of the
closing conditions set forth in Article VI impossible or unlikely. 

Section
5.7      Resignations .  At
the Transaction Closing, Seller shall deliver to the Company the resignations of
any director of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries who has been designated
by Seller or any of its Affiliates to serve on any such board. 

Section
5.8      Public
Announcements .  None of the parties hereto (nor any of their
respective Affiliates) shall issue any other press release or make any other
public announcement with respect to the terms of this Agreement or the First
Sale or the Transaction Sale without the prior agreement of the other party,
except ( i ) for
any press release or other public announcement that contains no additional
information regarding the transactions contemplated hereby beyond the
information contained in the press release being issued on the day hereof that
has been agreed to in advance by Buyer and Seller and ( ii ) as may be
required by Law or by any listing agreement with a national securities
exchange. 

Section
5.9      Mutual
Release .  Seller, on the one hand, and Buyer and the Company
(which Buyer shall cause to execute such release), on the other hand, shall, on
behalf of itself and its Affiliates, execute and deliver at the Transaction
Closing a release in the form attached as  Exhibit A  (the   Mutual
Release  ).  Any agreements in effect between or among Buyer
and/or the Company or any of their respective Subsidiaries, on one hand, and
Seller and/or any of its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, that are not listed on
the Schedule to the Mutual Release shall remain in full force and effect
notwithstanding the Transaction Closing in accordance with their
terms. 

18 

Section
5.10      Provision of Determination
of Available Cash From Operations .  For each fiscal quarter for
which a Current Transaction Payment is payable, Buyer shall deliver to Seller
(a) a calculation furnished by the Chief Financial Officer of Buyer or one of
his or her direct reports of the determination of Available Cash from Operations
for such fiscal quarter and a reconciliation, if applicable to available cash as
determined in accordance with the May 11, 2004 non-binding letter of
intention from Buyer to Seller and (b) such available documentation as Seller
may reasonably request from time to time related to the such calculation and
reconciliation. 

Section
5.11      Further
Assurances .  Following the First Sale Closing and the
Transaction Closing, as applicable, Seller shall, and shall cause its Affiliates
and representatives to, execute and deliver such additional instruments,
documents, conveyances or assurances and take such other actions as shall be
necessary, or otherwise reasonably be requested by Buyer to confirm and assure
the rights and obligations provided for in this Agreement and render effective
the consummation of the transaction contemplated hereby, or otherwise to carry
out the intent and purposes of this Agreement. 

ARTICLE
VI 

CONDITIONS
PRECEDENT 

Section
6.1      Conditions to the
Obligations of the Parties .  The obligations of the parties to
consummate the First Sale Closing or the Transaction Closing, as applicable,
shall be subject to the fulfillment of the following condition as of the
applicable Closing Date: consummation of the transactions contemplated to occur
at such Closing shall not have been restrained, enjoined by any court having
jurisdiction or otherwise prohibited or made illegal by any applicable
Law. 

Section
6.2      Conditions to Obligations of
Buyer .  The obligations of Buyer to consummate the First Sale
Closing or the Transaction Closing, as applicable, shall be subject to the
fulfillment at or prior to such Closing of the following additional
conditions: 

(a)      Representations and
Warranties .  The representations and warranties of Seller
contained in this Agreement and in any certificate or other writing delivered
pursuant hereto, other than the representations and warranties contained in
Section 3.4, shall be true and correct in all material respects, and the
representations and warranties contained in Section 3.4 shall be true and
correct in all respects, at and as of the date hereof and at and as of the
applicable Closing  

19 

Date
with the same effect as though made at and as of the applicable Closing
Date. 

(b)      Performance of
Covenants .  Seller shall have in all material respects duly
performed and complied with all agreements, covenants and conditions required by
this Agreement to be performed or complied with by it at or prior to such
Closing. 

(c)      Officer s
Certificate .  Seller shall have delivered to Buyer a
certificate, dated the Closing Date and signed by a duly authorized officer to
the effect set forth in Sections 6.2(a) and (b). 

Section
6.3      Conditions to Obligations of
Seller .  The obligation of Seller to consummate the First Sale
Closing or the Transaction Closing, as applicable, shall be subject to the
fulfillment at or prior to such Closing of the following additional
conditions: 

(a)      Representations and
Warranties .  The representations and warranties of Buyer
contained in this Agreement and in any certificate or other writing delivered
pursuant hereto shall be true and correct in all material respects at and as of
the date hereof and at and as of the applicable Closing Date with the same
effect as though made at and as of the applicable Closing Date. 

(b)      Performance of
Covenants .  Buyer shall have in all material respects duly
performed and complied with all agreements, covenants and conditions required by
this Agreement to be performed or complied with by it at or prior to such
Closing. 

(c)      Officer s
Certificate .  Buyer shall have delivered to Seller a
certificate, dated the Closing Date and signed by a duly authorized officer to
the effect set forth in Sections 6.3(a) and (b). 

Section
6.4      Additional Conditions to
Obligations of the Parties .  The obligation of the parties to
consummate the Transaction Closing shall be subject to the fulfillment at or
prior to the Transaction Closing of the following additional
conditions: 

20 

(a)      Crimson
Transactions .  Buyer shall have provided to Seller a
certificate stating that the closing conditions set forth in the Crimson
Transaction Documents shall have been satisfied (or waived by the party having
the right to waive such condition). 

(b)      Mutual
Release .  As a condition to the obligations of Seller, Buyer
shall have executed and delivered to Seller the Mutual Release, dated and
effective as of the Transaction Closing Date.  Similarly, as a
condition to the obligations of Buyer, Seller shall have executed and delivered
to Buyer the Mutual Release, dated and effective as of the Transaction Closing
Date. 

ARTICLE
VII   TERMINATION 

Section
7.1      Termination .  Subject
to Section 7.2 and Section 7.3, this Agreement may be terminated at any time
prior to the Closing: 

(a)     by
the written agreement of Buyer and Seller; 

(b)     by
either Buyer or Seller by notice to the other party, if: 

(i)     the
Transaction Closing shall not have been consummated prior to any termination of
the Crimson Transaction Documents or 

(ii)     ( A ) there shall
be any Law that makes consummation of the Closing illegal or otherwise
prohibited or ( B ) any judgment,
injunction, order or decree of any Governmental Authority having competent
jurisdiction enjoining any party from consummating the Closing is entered and
such judgment, injunction, order or decree shall have become final and
nonappealable; 

(c)     by
Buyer by notice to Seller, if a breach of any representation or warranty or
failure to perform any covenant or agreement on the part of Seller set forth in
this Agreement shall have occurred that would cause a condition to Buyer s
obligations under Article VI not to be satisfied, and such breach is incapable
of being cured within 30 days of notice of such breach,  provided  that Buyer
shall not have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this

21 

Section 7.1(c)
if Buyer is then in material breach or violation of its representations,
warranties or covenants contained in this Agreement; or 

(d)     by
Seller by notice to Buyer, if a breach of any representation or warranty or
failure to perform any covenant or agreement on the part of Buyer set forth in
this Agreement shall have occurred that would cause a condition to Seller s
obligations under Article VI not to be satisfied, and such breach is incapable
of being cured within 30 days of notice of such breach or, in the case of any
breach of a payment obligation in Section 2.4(a) that is not cured within 15
days (provided that cure requires payment of interest is paid on the delayed
payment at the Prime Rate plus 5% during the period of delay),  provided  that Seller
shall not have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this
Section 7.1(d) if Seller is then in material breach or violation of its
representations, warranties or covenants contained in this
Agreement. 

(e)     For
the avoidance of doubt, during the pendency of any dispute as to whether either
party is in material breach of its obligations hereunder, any termination right
asserted under Sections 7.1(c) and 7.1(d) shall not be effective unless and
until a final determination regarding such dispute or a mutual agreement to
resolve such dispute, and following resolution, the party determined or agreed
to be in breach shall have the opportunity to promptly cure following any such
determination. 

Section
7.2      Effect of
Termination .  If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to
Section 7.1, this Agreement shall cease to be of any effect without liability of
any party (or any of its directors, officers, employees, stockholders,
Affiliates or agents representatives or advisors) to the other party hereto;
 provided  that
( i ) in the
event this Agreement is terminated prior to the First Sale other than by Buyer
under Section 7.1(c), the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder with
respect to the consummation of the First Sale shall nevertheless remain in
effect subject to the terms and conditions hereof, ( ii ) the provisions of
this Section 7.2 and Sections 1.1, 1.2, 2.4, 5.1(a), 5.1(b), 5.3, 5.4, 5.6, 7.1,
the applicable indemnification provisions of Article VIII (to the extent that a
First Sale has occurred) and Article IX, shall survive any termination hereof
pursuant to Section 7.1, provided that survival of Sections 5.1(a) and 5.3 shall
not apply following any termination for material breach by Buyer and ( iii ) no such
termination shall relieve either party of liability for a breach of this
Agreement. 

Section
7.3      Effectiveness of Consents;
Disputes .  The agreements of Seller in Sections 5.1(a) and
Section 5.3 shall not be effective during the pendency of a dispute as provided
in this Section 7.3.  In the event of a dispute as to whether a party
has the right  

22 

to
terminate this Agreement for breach under Section 7.1 or a dispute as to the
satisfaction of closing conditions, then notwithstanding anything to the
contrary, the effectiveness of the agreements of Seller contained in Sections
5.1(a) and 5.3 shall not be in force pending resolution of
dispute.  If it is finally determined that Buyer was in breach, such
agreements shall continue to have no effect unless and until Buyer promptly
cures such breach, provided that in the case of a failure to have consummated a
First Sale or a Transaction Sale, such cure shall include the applicable
payments under Article II plus the payment of simple interest at the Prime Rate
in respect of the period in which the applicable Closing was not
consummated.  If it is finally determined that Buyer was not in
breach, such suspension shall immediately be lifted and such agreements shall
again be in full force and effect, it being understood, for the avoidance of
doubt, that during the pendency of any such dispute, Buyer shall be free without
claim by Seller to proceed with pre-closing activities relating to the Crimson
Transactions, but not to consummate such Crimson Transactions. 

ARTICLE
VIII   INDEMNIFICATION 

Section
8.1      Survival .  The
representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of the parties contained
in this Agreement or in any certificate or other writing delivered pursuant
hereto or in connection herewith shall survive the First Sale Closing and/or the
Transaction Closing, as applicable, indefinitely. 

Section
8.2      Indemnification by
Seller .  From and after the applicable Closing, Seller shall
defend, indemnify and hold harmless Buyer, its Affiliates (which for this
purpose shall include the Company and its Subsidiaries), and their respective
officers, directors, employees, agents, successors and assigns (collectively,
the   Buyer
Indemnitees  ) from and against, and pay or reimburse the Buyer
Indemnitees for, any and all Losses resulting from ( a ) any inaccuracy in
or breach of any representation or warranty when made or deemed made by Seller
in this Agreement or ( b ) any breach or
default in performance by Seller of any covenant or agreement under this
Agreement, it being understood, for the avoidance of doubt, that the case of the
First Sale Closing, the foregoing indemnity shall only apply to those
representations, warranties, covenants or agreements made, performed or to be
performed by their terms, prior to the First Sale Closing. 

Section
8.3      Indemnification by
Buyer .  From and after the applicable Closing, Buyer shall
defend, indemnify and hold harmless Seller and its officers, directors,
employees, agents, successors and assigns (collectively, the   Seller Indemnitees  )
from and against, and pay or reimburse the Seller Indemnitees for, any and all
Losses resulting  

23 

from
( a ) any
inaccuracy in or breach of any representation or warranty made or deemed made by
Buyer in this Agreement, ( b ) any breach or
default in performance by Buyer of any covenant or agreement under this
Agreement or ( c ) any Third
Party Claim asserted by Crimson (or a third party purporting to act on behalf of
Crimson) against a Seller Indemnitee arising from the Crimson Transactions, it
being understood, for the avoidance of doubt, that the case of the First Sale
Closing, the foregoing indemnity in clauses (a) and (b) shall only apply to
those representations, warranties, covenants or agreements made, performed or to
be performed by their terms, prior to the First Sale Closing. 

Section
8.4      Certain
Limitations . 

(a)     Except
as provided in Section 9.9, the indemnity provided for in this Article VIII
shall be the sole and exclusive remedy of Buyer Indemnitees or Seller
Indemnitees, as the case may be, after the Closing for any inaccuracy of any
representation or warranty of, or breach of this Agreement by, Seller, on the
one hand, or Buyer or the Company, on the other hand;  provided  that nothing
herein shall limit in any way any such party s remedies in respect of fraud,
intentional misrepresentation or omission or intentional misconduct by the other
party constituting or resulting in any breach of this Agreement. 

(b)     No
party to this Agreement (or any of its Affiliates) shall, in any event, be
liable or otherwise responsible to any other party (or any of its Affiliates)
for any punitive damages of such other party (or any of its Affiliates) arising
out of or relating to this Agreement or the performance or breach hereof, except
to the extent such amounts are payable to a third party in respect of a Third
Party Claim. 

Section
8.5      Third Party Claim
Procedures .  In the case of any Litigation asserted by a third
party (a   Third Party
Claim  ) against a party entitled to indemnification under this Agreement
(an   Indemnified
Party  ), notice shall be given by the Indemnified Party to the party
required to provide indemnification (the   Indemnifying Party  )
promptly after such Indemnified Party has actual knowledge of such Third Party
Claim, and the Indemnified Party shall permit the Indemnifying Party (at the
expense of such Indemnifying Party and so long as the Indemnifying Party
acknowledges in writing its obligation to indemnify the Indemnified Party for
Losses related to such Third Party Claim) to assume the defense of such Third
Party Claim,  provided  that ( a ) counsel for
the Indemnifying Party who shall conduct the defense of such Third Party Claim
shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party, and the Indemnified
Party may participate in such defense at such Indemnified Party s expense, and
( b ) the
failure of any Indemnified Party to give notice as provided herein shall not
relieve the Indemnifying  

24 

Party
of its indemnification obligation under this Agreement except to the extent that
such failure results in a lack of actual notice to the Indemnifying Party and
such Indemnifying Party is materially prejudiced as a result of such failure to
give notice.  If the Indemnifying Party does not promptly assume the
defense of such Third Party Claim following notice thereof, the Indemnified
Party shall be entitled to assume and control such defense and to settle or
agree to pay in full such Third Party Claim without the consent of the
Indemnifying Party without prejudice to the ability of the Indemnified Party to
enforce its claim for indemnification against the Indemnifying Party
hereunder.  Except with the prior written consent of the Indemnified
Party, no Indemnifying Party, in the defense of any such Third Party Claim,
shall consent to entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement that
provides for injunctive or other nonmonetary relief affecting the Indemnified
Party or that does not include as an unconditional term thereof the giving by
each claimant or plaintiff to such Indemnified Party of an irrevocable release
from all liability with respect to such Third Party Claim.  If the
Indemnified Party in good faith determines that the conduct of the defense or
any proposed settlement of any Third Party Claim would reasonably be expected to
affect adversely the Indemnified Party s Tax liability or the ability of the
Company or any of its Subsidiaries to conduct its business, or that the
Indemnified Party may have available to it one or more defenses or counterclaims
that are inconsistent with one or more of those that may be available to the
Indemnifying Party in respect of such Third Party Claim, the Indemnified Party
shall have the right at all times to take over and control the defense,
settlement, negotiation or Litigation relating to any such Third Party Claim at
the sole cost of the Indemnifying Party;  provided  that if the
Indemnified Party does so take over and control, the Indemnified Party shall not
settle such Third Party Claim without the written consent of the Indemnifying
Party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.  In
any event, Seller and Buyer shall cooperate in the defense of any Third Party
Claim subject to this Article VIII and the records of each shall be reasonably
available to the other with respect to such defense. 

ARTICLE
IX   MISCELLANEOUS 

Section
9.1      Notices .  All
notices, requests, permissions, waivers and other communications hereunder shall
be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given ( a ) five Business
Days following sending by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, ( b ) when sent, if
sent electronically or by facsimile, during the normal business hours on any
Business Day of the recipient, or one Business Day after the date sent, if sent
electronically or by facsimile, after the normal business hours of the
recipient,  ( c ) when
delivered, if delivered personally to the intended recipient and ( d ) one Business
Day following sending by overnight delivery via a national courier service (two
Business Days following sending by overnight international delivery via
international courier service), in each case, addressed to a party at the
following address for such party: 

25 

if
to Buyer, to: 

General
Electric Company 

      3135
Easton Turnpike 

      Fairfield,
Connecticut 06828 

      Attention:
Senior Counsel for Transactions 

      Fax:
(203) 373-2008 

with
a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to: 

Debevoise
  Plimpton LLP 

      919
Third Avenue 

      New
York, New York  10022 

      Attention:  Jeffrey
J. Rosen 

              Kevin M.
Schmidt 

Fax:  (212)
909-6836 

if
to Seller, to: 

Vivendi
S.A. 

      800
Third Avenue, 5th Floor 

      New
York, New York 10022 

      Attention:
George E. Bushnell III, Senior Vice
President                                                                                                and
Deputy General Counsel 

      Facsimile:  (212)
572-7112 

with
a copy to: 

Vivendi
S.A. 

      800
Third Avenue, 5th Floor 

      New
York, New York 10022 

      Attention:
Trace Harris, Senior Vice President 

      Facsimile:  (212)
572-7112 

and
with a copy (which shall not constitute notice) to: 

Gibson,
Dunn   Crutcher LLP 

      2029
Century Park E. 

      Los
Angeles CA  90067 

      Attention:
Ruth Fisher 

      Facsimile:
(310) 552-7070 

26 

Any
party to this Agreement may change the address or addresses to which notices and
other communications hereunder are to be delivered by giving the other parties
to this Agreement notice in the manner herein set forth. 

Section
9.2      Amendment; Waivers,
etc .  No amendment, modification or discharge of this
Agreement, and no waiver hereunder, shall be valid or binding unless set forth
in writing and duly executed by the party against whom enforcement of the
amendment, modification, discharge or waiver is sought.  Any such
waiver shall constitute a waiver only with respect to the specific matter
described in such writing and shall in no way impair the rights of the party
granting such waiver in any other respect or at any other
time.  Neither the waiver by any of the parties hereto of a breach of
or a default under any of the provisions of this Agreement, nor the failure by
any of the parties, on one or more occasions, to enforce any of the provisions
of this Agreement or to exercise any right or privilege hereunder, shall be
construed as a waiver of any other breach or default of a similar nature, or as
a waiver of any of such provisions, rights or privileges
hereunder.  The rights and remedies herein provided are cumulative and
none is exclusive of any other, or of any rights or remedies that any party may
otherwise have at law or in equity. 

Section
9.3      Expenses .  Except
as otherwise provided herein, all costs, fees and expenses incurred in
connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby,
including, whether or not consummated, shall be paid by the party incurring such
cost or expense.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, all sales, use, real
property, transfer, stamp, registration, documentary, recording or similar Taxes
incurred in connection in connection with the sale and purchase of Shares under
this Agreement shall be paid by Seller and Buyer, with each of Seller and Buyer
bearing half of the aggregate of such costs and expenses. 

Section
9.4      Governing Law,
etc . 

(a)     This
Agreement (and any claims, causes of action or disputes that may be based upon,
arise out of or relate hereto, to the transactions contemplated hereby, to the
negotiation, execution or performance hereof, or to the inducement of any party
to enter herein, whether for breach of contract, tortious conduct or otherwise
and whether predicated on common law, statute or otherwise) shall in all
respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the Laws of the State
of Delaware, including all matters of construction, validity and performance, in
each case without reference to any conflict of Law rules that might lead to the
application of the Laws of any other jurisdiction. 

27 

(b)     Each
of the parties hereto by this Agreement irrevocably and
unconditionally: 

(i)     submits
for itself and its property in any claim, action, suit, arbitration, or any
proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transactions
contemplated hereby (each, an   Action  ), or for
recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof, to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware (or if unavailable,
any federal court sitting in the State of Delaware or, if unavailable, the
Delaware Superior Court), and appellate courts having jurisdiction of appeals
from any of the foregoing, and agrees that all claims in respect of any such
Action shall be heard and determined in such Delaware court or, to the extent
permitted by Law, in such federal court; 

(ii)     consents
that any such Action may and shall be brought in such courts and waives any
objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue or jurisdiction of any
such Action in any such court or that such Action was brought in an inconvenient
court and agrees not to plead or claim the same; 

(iii)     agrees
that service of process in any such Action may be effected by mailing a copy of
such process by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form
of mail), postage prepaid, to such party at its address as provided in  Section
9.1 ; and 

(iv)     agrees
that nothing in this Agreement shall affect the right to effect service of
process in any other manner permitted by the Laws of the State of
Delaware. 

(c)     EACH
PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW,
ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT TO ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY
OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY
TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT
NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED,
EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF
LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT
AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO  

28 

ENTER
INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND
CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION 9.4(C). 

Section
9.5      Successors and
Assigns .  The rights and obligations under this Agreement are
personal and shall not be assignable or otherwise transferable by either party
hereto.  Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything in this Agreement
to the contrary, Buyer shall have the right to designate National Broadcasting
Company Holding, Inc. as the purchaser of the First Sale Shares and/or the
Transaction Shares,  provided  that in such
event Buyer shall remain liable for the timely performance of such purchase
obligation by National Broadcasting Company Holding, Inc. 

Section
9.6      Entire
Agreement .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and
supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral,
between the parties with respect to the subject matter
hereof.  Without limiting the foregoing, except as specified herein
the Stockholders Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement remain in full
force and effect in accordance with their terms. 

Section
9.7      Severability .  If
any provision, including any phrase, sentence, clause, section or
subsection, of this Agreement is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction
to be invalid, inoperative or unenforceable for any reason, such circumstances
shall not have the effect of rendering such provision in question invalid,
inoperative or unenforceable in any other case or circumstance, or of rendering
any other provision herein contained invalid, inoperative, or unenforceable to
any extent whatsoever.  Upon any such determination, the parties shall
negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original
intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order
that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated as originally
contemplated to the fullest extent possible. 

Section
9.8      Counterparts   ;
Effectiveness; Third Party Beneficiaries .  This Agreement may
be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original
and all of which shall together constitute one and the same
instrument.  This Agreement shall become effective when each party
shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by all of the other
parties.  Until and unless each party has received a counterpart
hereof signed by the other party, this Agreement shall have no effect and no
party shall have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any
other oral or written agreement or other communication).  Except as
provided under Article VIII, no provision of this Agreement is intended to
confer any rights, benefits, remedies, obligations, or liabilities hereunder
upon any Person other than the parties and their respective successors and
assigns.  

29 

Section
9.9      Specific
Performance .  The parties agree that irreparable damage would
occur if any provision of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with
the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or
injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement or to enforce specifically the
performance of the terms and provisions hereof in any court specified in Section
9.4, in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in
equity. 

[Signature
Page Follows] 

30 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have duly executed this Agreement as of the date
first above written. 

GENERAL
      ELECTRIC COMPANY 

By 

/s/ Jeffrey R.
      Immelt   

Name:
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Title: 
      Chairman and CEO 

VIVENDI
      S. A. 

By 

/s/
      Jean-Bernard Levy   

Name:
      Jean Bernard Levy 

Title:
      Chairman of the Management Board and
CEO 

31 

Exhibit
A  

Mutual
Release  

In
consideration of the promises herein and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Buyer and the
Company, on behalf of themselves and each of their respective, successors,
assigns, parents, subsidiaries and all other entities directly or indirectly
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of them (together,
the  Buyer Releasors ), hereby fully and generally acquit, release and discharge
Seller (and each of its respective, successors, assigns, parents, subsidiaries
and all other entities directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or
under common control with it) from any and all obligations, claims,
counterclaims, cross claims, demands, actions, causes of actions, duties, and
liabilities, in law or equity, of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, that
the Buyer Releasors ever had, now have or hereafter can, shall or may have, from
the beginning of the world until the date hereof, which concern, relates to or
arises solely under or out of (x) the non-contractual relationship of the
parties solely in their capacity as stockholders of the Company or (y) one or
more of the agreements listed on the Schedule attached hereto, provided that the
foregoing release shall not release, apply to, or limit any rights or
obligations of the parties concerning, relating to or arising under or out of
any other matter, or any agreement that is not listed on such Schedule
including, without limitation, the Business Combination Agreement dated as of
October 8, 2003, as amended. 

In
consideration of the promises herein and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, Seller, on behalf of
itself and each of its respective, successors, assigns, parents, subsidiaries
and all other entities directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or
under common control with it (together, the  Seller Releasors ), hereby fully
and generally acquit, release and discharge Buyer and the Company (and each of
their respective, successors, assigns, parents, subsidiaries, and all other
entities directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with any of them) from any and all obligations, claims, counterclaims,
cross claims, demands, actions, causes of actions, duties, and liabilities, in
law or equity, of any nature whatsoever, known or unknown, that the Seller
Releasors ever had, now have or hereafter can, shall or may have, from the
beginning of the world until the date hereof, which concern, relates to or
arises solely under or out of (x) the non-contractual relationship of the
parties solely in their capacity as stockholders of the Company or (y) one or
more of the agreements listed on the Schedule attached hereto, provided that the
foregoing release shall not release, apply to or limit any rights or obligations
of the parties concerning, relating to or arising under or out of any other
matter, or any agreement that is not listed on such Schedule including, without
limitation, the Business Combination Agreement dated as of October 8, 2003, as
amended. 

SCHEDULE TO
RELEASE  

Stockholders
Agreement, dated as of May 11, 2004, as amended 

Amended
and Restated Liquidity Rights Agreement, dated as of December 14, 2006, as
amended. 

Schedule
1.1  

Target
Amounts  

</EX-10.T>

<EX-10.U>
 6
 ex10u.htm

ex10u.htm 

Exhibit
10(u)    

EXECUTION
VERSION 

BANC
      OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC 

                  BANK
      OF AMERICA, N.A. 

CITIGROUP
      GLOBAL MARKETS INC. 

One
      Bryant Park 

                  New
      York, New York 10036 

390
      Greenwich Street 

                  New
      York, New York 10013 

December
3, 2009 

Commitment
Letter  

NBC Universal, Inc.  

        30
Rockefeller Plaza 

        New
York, NY 10012 

Attention:
Chief Financial Officer 

Ladies
and Gentlemen: 

NBC
Universal, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Navy   or   you  ), has advised
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. (  JPMorgan  ), JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (  JPMorgan Chase
Bank  ), Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. (  GSCP  ), Morgan
Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. (  MSSF  ), Banc of
America Securities LLC (  BAS  ), Bank of
America, N.A. (  BOA  ) and Citigroup
Global Markets Inc. (on behalf of Citi (as defined below)) (  CGMI   together with
JPMorgan, JPMorgan Chase Bank, GSCP, MSSF, BAS and BOA, the   Commitment Parties  
or   we   or
  us  ) that it
intends to (a) enter into that certain Master Agreement dated as of
December 3, 2009 (collectively with the Ancillary Agreements and Disclosure
Letters described therein, the   Master Agreement  )
with Comcast Corporation (  Crimson  ) General
Electric Company   (  Green  ) and Navy, LLC
(  Newco   and,
together with Crimson, Green and you, the   Transaction
Parties  ), pursuant to which, among other steps, (i) 100% of the issued
and outstanding equity interests in Navy will be contributed to Newco, and (ii)
certain of Crimson s assets and liabilities, collectively identified in the
Master Agreement as the Contributed Comcast Businesses (the   Contributed Comcast
Businesses  ) will be contributed to Navy and combined (the   Combination  ) with
certain of the assets and liabilities of Navy and its subsidiaries, collectively
identified in the Master Agreement as the NBCU Businesses (including certain
assets and liabilities contributed to Navy but excluding the Excluded NBCU
Assets and the Excluded NBCU Liabilities (each, as defined in the Master
Agreement)) (the   NBCU
Businesses   each of the NBCU Businesses and the Contributed Comcast
Businesses, a   Contributed Business  
and, collectively, the   Contributed
Businesses  ), and (b) consummate the other  Transactions  described in
the Transactions Description attached hereto as Exhibit A.  For
purposes of this Commitment Letter,   Citi   means CGMI,
Citibank, N.A., Citicorp USA, Inc., Citicorp North America, Inc. and/or any
affiliate as may be appropriate to consummate the transactions 

contemplated
hereby.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein are used with
the meanings assigned to them in such Exhibit A and in the other exhibits
attached hereto (such exhibits, collectively, the   Term
Sheets  ). 

In
connection therewith, you have requested that (a) JPMorgan, GSCP and MSSF agree
to structure, arrange and syndicate the Credit Facilities, (b) JPMorgan Chase
Bank, GSCP, MSSF, BOA and Citi commit to provide the entire amount of the Credit
Facilities and (c) JPMorgan Chase Bank agree to serve as administrative agent
for the Credit Facilities. 

JPMorgan,
GSCP and MSSF are pleased to advise you that they are willing to act as joint
lead arrangers and joint bookrunners for the Credit Facilities; BAS and CGMI are
pleased to advise you that they are willing to act as co-lead arrangers for the
Credit Facilities; each of JPMorgan Chase Bank, GSCP and MSSF are pleased to
advise you of its several, but not joint, commitment to provide 26 2/3% of the
Credit Facilities; each of BOA and Citi are pleased to advise you of its
several, but not joint, commitment to provide 10% of the Credit Facilities; GSCP
and MSSF are pleased to advise you that they are willing to act as
co-syndication agents for the Credit Facilities; BOA and CGMI are pleased to
advise you that they are willing to act as co-documentation agents for the
Credit Facilities; and JPMorgan Chase Bank is pleased to advise you of its
agreement to serve as administrative agent for the Credit Facilities, in each
case upon the terms and subject to the conditions expressly set forth in this
commitment letter (the   Commitment Letter  )
and in the Term Sheets. 

It
is agreed that JPMorgan, GSCP and MSSF will act as joint lead arrangers and
bookrunners for the Credit Facilities (with JPMorgan receiving  lead-left 
placement on all marketing materials for the Credit Facilities) (each in such
capacity, a   Lead
Arranger  ), BAS and CGMI will act as co-lead arrangers for the Credit
Facilities (each in such capacity, a   Co-Lead Arranger  ),
GSCP and MSSF will act as co-syndication agents for the Credit Facilities, BOA
and CGMI will act as co-documentation agents for the Credit Facilities and that
JPMorgan Chase Bank will act as the sole and exclusive administrative agent for
the Credit Facilities, and each will, in such capacities, perform the duties and
exercise the authority customarily performed and exercised by it in such
roles.  You agree that no other agents, co-agents or arrangers will be
appointed, no other titles will be awarded   and no compensation
(other than that expressly contemplated by this Commitment Letter (including the
Term Sheets) and the Fee Letters referred to below) will be paid in connection
with the Credit Facilities unless you and we shall so agree. 

As
soon as is practicable after the execution and delivery of this Commitment
Letter and the public announcement of the Transactions (the   Syndication Commencement
Date  ), the Lead Arrangers intend to syndicate the Credit Facilities to a
select group of financial institutions that will act as co-arrangers and lenders
and will deliver written documentation (which may be in the form of joinder
agreements to this Commitment Letter,  back-to-back  commitment arrangements or
as the Commitment Parties shall otherwise agree) evidencing their respective
commitments to provide a portion of the Credit Facilities (the   Co-Arranger
Syndication   and each such lender committing during the Co-Arranger
Syndication, a   Co-Arranger  ).  You
acknowledge and agree that the Lead Arrangers will, in consultation with the
Transaction Parties, determine when the Co-Arranger Syndication is
completed.  Following the completion of the Co-Arranger Syndication,
the Lead Arrangers will promptly commence efforts to syndicate the Senior
Facilities in a general syndication to a broader group of financial institutions
(the   General
Syndication   together with the Co-Arranger Syndication, the   Syndications   and
such financial institutions, together with the Lead Arrangers, the Co-Lead
Arrangers and the Co-Arrangers (or their designated affiliates), the   Lenders  ).  You
acknowledge and agree that the Lead Arrangers will, in consultation with the
Transaction Parties, determine when the General Syndication is
completed.  In connection with the identification and selection of the
financial institutions to act as Co-Arrangers and 

Lenders,
the Lead Arrangers agree to first target financial institutions identified by
the Transaction Parties in writing prior to the date hereof, with the
identification and selection of other Co-Arrangers and Lenders to be subject to
the consent of the Transaction Parties (any such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).  The Lead Arrangers will, in consultation with
the Transaction Parties, manage each Syndication, including determining any
title of agent or similar designations or roles awarded to any Lender and the
acceptance of commitments, the amounts offered and the compensation provided to
each Co-Arranger and Lender from the amounts to be paid to the Lead Arrangers
and Co-Lead Arrangers pursuant to the terms of this Commitment Letter and the
Fee Letters.  The Lead Arrangers will, in consultation with you,
determine the final commitment allocations for each Syndication (including the
reallocation of a portion of the commitments in respect of the Credit Facilities
of the Lead Arrangers and the Co-Lead Arrangers to the Co-Arrangers) and will
notify you of such determination.  To assist with the General
Syndication, you agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to execute and
deliver definitive documentation with respect to the Credit Facilities,
consistent with the terms set forth herein and in the applicable Term Sheet and
otherwise mutually acceptable to you and the Lead Arrangers (the   Credit Facilities
Documentation  ), as soon as reasonably practicable following the date
hereof.  We anticipate that the execution and delivery of the Credit
Facilities Documentation will substantially coincide with the completion of the
General Syndication, and you agree to use your commercially reasonable efforts
to cooperate in the preparation and negotiation of the Credit Facilities
Documentation consistent with such timing. 

You
agree, at all times prior to the achievement of a Successful Syndication, to
actively assist the Lead Arrangers in completing each Syndication in a manner
satisfactory to the Lead Arrangers as soon as is practicable.  Such
assistance shall include (a) your using commercially reasonable efforts to
ensure that the syndication efforts benefit from your existing lending
relationships and those of Crimson and Green, (b) direct contact between senior
management and advisors of Navy and the proposed Lenders and using your
commercially reasonable efforts to ensure direct contact between senior
management and advisors  of Crimson and Green and the proposed Lenders
(including, as reasonably requested, such direct contact with individual
proposed Co-Arrangers in connection with the Co-Arranger Syndication), (c) the
assistance of Navy, and using your commercially reasonable efforts to ensure the
assistance of Crimson and Green, in the preparation of a customary confidential
information memorandum and other materials as contemplated below to be used in
connection with each Syndication (collectively, the   Confidential Information
Memorandum  ), including using commercially reasonable efforts to complete
the Confidential Information Memorandum as soon as reasonably practicable
following the date hereof; and (d) the hosting, with the Lead Arrangers and the
senior management of Navy, and using commercially reasonable efforts to ensure
the assistance of Crimson and Green, in one or more meetings or, if you and the
Lead Arrangers shall agree, conference calls, with prospective Co-Arrangers and
other Lenders at times and locations mutually agreed upon.  Without
limiting your obligations to assist with Syndication efforts as set forth above,
each Commitment Party agrees that neither the commencement by the Lead Arrangers
nor the completion of either Syndication is a condition to the initial funding
under the Credit Facilities. 

None
of JPMorgan, GSCP and MSSF in its capacity as a Lead Arranger will have any
responsibility other than to arrange the Syndications as set forth herein and in
no event shall be subject to any fiduciary or other implied
duties.  To assist the Lead Arrangers in the Syndications, Navy will
promptly prepare and provide, and will use commercially reasonable efforts to
ensure Crimson and Green will prepare and provide, to the Lead Arrangers all
customary information with respect to Navy, the Contributed Comcast Businesses,
the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby, including all
financial information and projections (the   Projections  ), as the
Lead Arrangers may reasonably request in connection with the preparation of the
Confidential Information Memorandum and otherwise in connection with the
arrangement and syndication of the Credit Facilities (which shall in
any 

event
include providing projections for Navy through 2013).  At the Lead
Arrangers  request, you agree that Navy will assist, and will use commercially
reasonable efforts to ensure the assistance of Crimson and Green, in the
preparation of a version of the information package and presentation consisting
exclusively of information and documentation that is either publicly available
or not material with respect to the Transaction Parties and their respective
affiliates and any of their respective securities for purposes of United States
federal and state securities laws (all such information and documentation being
  Public Lender
Information  ).  Any information and documentation that is not
Public Lender Information is referred to herein as   Private Lender
Information  .  You further agree that each document to be
disseminated by the Lead Arrangers to any Lender in connection with the Credit
Facilities will, at the request of the Lead Arrangers, be identified by you as
either (i) containing Private Lender Information or (ii) containing solely
Public Lender Information.  You acknowledge and agree that the
following documents may be distributed to  public side  Lenders (i.e., Lenders
that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the
Transaction Parties, their respective affiliates or securities) (provided that
the Transaction Parties have been afforded an opportunity to comply with
applicable Securities Exchange Commission disclosure obligations): (a) drafts
and final versions of the Credit Facilities Documentation, (b) administrative
materials prepared by the Lead Arrangers for prospective Lenders (such as a
lender meeting invitation, bank allocation, if any, and funding and closing
memoranda) and (c) notification of changes in the terms of the Credit
Facilities.  You also agree to promptly deliver to the Lead Arrangers
copies of all material amendments, modifications, waivers and consents under the
Master Agreement. 

You
hereby represent and covenant that (a) all written information and all oral
communications made in Lender meetings and due diligence sessions held in
connection with the Syndications, taken as a whole, other than the Projections
and information of a general economic or industry nature (the   Information  ), that
has been or will be made available to us by you or any of your representatives
(with respect to information relating to Crimson and its affiliates, in each
case to the best of your knowledge) is or will be, when furnished, complete and
correct in all material respects and does not or will not, when furnished,
contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary in order to make the statements contained therein not materially
misleading in light of the circumstances under which such statements are made
and (b) the Projections that have been or will be made available to us by you or
any of your representatives have been or will be prepared in good faith based
upon reasonable assumptions at the time made and at the time the related
Projections are made available to us (it being understood that projections are
subject to significant uncertainties and that no assurances can be given that
any projections will be realized, and the variances between actual results and
projected results may be material).  You understand that in arranging
and syndicating the Credit Facilities we may use and rely on the Information and
Projections without independent verification thereof. 

As
consideration for the commitments and agreements of the Commitment Parties
hereunder, you agree to pay the fees described in the Fee Letters dated the date
hereof and delivered herewith (the   Fee
Letters  ). 

Each
Commitment Party s commitments hereunder and the agreements to perform the
services described herein are subject to (a) except as contemplated by the
Master Agreement, since January 1, 2009, there not having occurred any
event, change, occurrence or circumstance that, individually or in the
aggregate, has had or would reasonably be expected to have an Effective Date
Material Adverse Effect (as defined below), (b) our satisfaction that prior to
the completion of a Successful Syndication, there shall be no competing
offering, placement or arrangement of any debt securities or bank financing by
or on behalf of the NBCU Businesses, the Contributed Comcast Businesses, Newco
or any of their respective subsidiaries that could reasonably be expected to
materially impair the Syndications other than (i) the Senior Notes, (ii) debt
identified by you to the Lead Arrangers 

in
writing on or prior to the date hereof and (iii) as the Commitment Parties shall
otherwise agree and (c) the other conditions expressly set forth in the Term
Sheets. 

Effective Date Material
Adverse Effect   shall mean, a material adverse effect on the business,
assets, financial condition or operations of the Contributed Businesses, taken
as a whole;  provided ,  however , that, any
adverse effect to the extent arising out of, resulting from or attributable to
(a) an event or series of events or circumstances affecting (i) the United
States or global economy generally or capital or financial markets generally,
including changes in interest or exchange rates, (ii) political conditions
generally of the United States or any other country or jurisdiction in which the
Contributed Businesses operate or (iii) any of the industries generally in which
the Contributed Businesses operate (including labor strikes, work stoppages or
walkouts or other labor disputes, declines in ratings or declines in
costs-per-thousand), (b) the announcement or pendency of transactions
contemplated by the Master Agreement or the other Transaction Agreements (as
defined in the Master Agreement), (c) any changes in applicable Law (as defined
in the Master Agreement) or U.S. GAAP (as defined in the Master Agreement) or
the enforcement or interpretation thereof, (d) actions taken or omitted pursuant
to the Master Agreement or taken with the specific consent of the other parties
thereto and each Lead Arranger after the date of the Master Agreement, (e) any
acts of God, (f) any hostilities, acts of war, sabotage, terrorism or military
actions, or any escalation or worsening of any such hostilities, act of war,
sabotage, terrorism or military actions (except, with respect to the foregoing
clauses (a), (c), (e) and (f), to the extent such event or series of events,
circumstances, changes, acts or occurrences have a materially disproportionate
effect on the Contributed Businesses relative to other industry participants),
or (g) any failure to meet internal or published projections, estimates or
forecasts of revenues, earnings, or other measures of financial or operating
performance for any period ( provided  that the
underlying causes of such failures (subject to the other provisions of this
definition) shall not be excluded), shall not constitute or be deemed to
contribute to an Effective Date Material Adverse Effect, and otherwise shall not
be taken into account in determining whether an Effective Date Material Adverse
Effect has occurred or would be reasonably likely to occur. 

Notwithstanding
anything in this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters, the Credit Facilities
Documentation or any other letter agreement or other undertaking concerning the
financing of the transactions contemplated hereby to the contrary, the only
representations relating to the Contributed Businesses the accuracy of which
shall be a condition to availability of the Credit Facilities on the Effective
Date shall be (i) such of the representations made in the Master Agreement as
are material to the interests of the Lenders, but only to the extent that any of
the parties thereto has the right to terminate its obligations under the Master
Agreement as a result of a breach of such representations in the Master
Agreement (the   Master
Agreement Representations  ) and (ii) the Specified Representations (as
defined below).  For purposes hereof,   Specified
Representations   means the representations and warranties referred to in
the Term Sheets relating to corporate existence, power and authority, due
authorization, execution and delivery, no conflicts and enforceability of the
Credit Facilities Documentation, in each case as they relate to the entering
into and performance of the Credit Facilities Documentation, solvency, Federal
Reserve margin regulations and the Investment Company Act.  Notwithstanding
anything in this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters, the Credit Facilities
Documentation or any other letter agreement or other undertaking concerning the
financing of the transactions contemplated hereby to the contrary, the only
conditions to availability of the Credit Facilities on the Effective Date are
set forth in Exhibit B under the heading  CERTAIN CONDITIONS Initial
Conditions , Exhibit C under the heading  CERTAIN CONDITIONS  and in
Exhibit D.  This paragraph, and the provisions herein, shall be
referred to as the   Certain Funds
Provision  . 

You
agree (a) to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Commitment Parties, their
respective affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees,
advisors, and agents (each, an 

indemnified person  )
from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities to which
any such indemnified person may become subject arising out of or in connection
with this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters, the Credit Facilities, the use of
the proceeds thereof, the Transactions or any claim, litigation, investigation
or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, regardless of whether any
indemnified person is a party thereto, and to reimburse each indemnified person
upon demand for any reasonable legal or other expenses incurred in connection
with investigating or defending any of the foregoing,  provided  that the
foregoing indemnity will not, as to any indemnified person, apply to losses,
claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses to the extent they are found by
a final, non-appealable judgment of a court to arise (i) from the bad faith,
willful misconduct or gross negligence of such indemnified person, (ii) out of
any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding that does not involve an act
or omission or alleged act or omission of any Transaction Party and that is
brought by an indemnified person against any other indemnified person or (iii)
from a material breach by such indemnified person of its express obligations
under this Commitment Letter in any claim, litigation or proceeding brought by
you and (b) to reimburse the Commitment Parties and their affiliates on demand
for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including due diligence expenses,
syndication expenses, travel expenses, and fees, charges and disbursements of
one counsel to such indemnified persons taken as a whole (and, if reasonably
necessary, of one regulatory counsel and one local counsel in any relevant
jurisdiction, in each case to the indemnified persons taken as a whole) and,
solely in the case of a conflict of interest, of one additional counsel (and if
reasonably necessary, of one regulatory counsel and one local counsel in any
relevant jurisdiction) to the affected indemnified persons taken as a whole
incurred in connection with the Credit Facilities and any related documentation
(including this Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters and the Credit Facilities
Documentation) or the administration, amendment, modification or waiver
thereof.  No indemnified person shall be liable for any damages
arising from the use by unauthorized persons of Information or other materials
sent through electronic, telecommunications or other information transmission
systems that are intercepted by such persons or for any special, indirect,
consequential or punitive damages in connection with the Credit
Facilities. 

You
acknowledge that the Commitment Parties and their affiliates (collectively
referred to as the   Covered Parties  ) may
be providing debt financing, equity capital or other services (including
financial advisory services) to other companies in respect of which you may have
conflicting interests.  The Covered Parties will not use confidential
information obtained from you by virtue of the Transactions or their other
relationships with you in connection with the performance by them of services
for other companies, and the Commitment Parties will not furnish any such
information to other companies.  You also acknowledge that the
Commitment Parties have no obligation to use in connection with the
Transactions, or to furnish to you, confidential information obtained from other
companies. 

Each of
the Covered Parties may have economic interests that conflict with those of the
Transaction Parties, their respective equity holders and/or their respective
affiliates.  You agree that each of the Covered Parties will act under
this Commitment Letter as an independent contractor and that nothing in this
Commitment Letter, the Fee Letters or otherwise will be deemed to create an
advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary or other implied duty
between any Covered Party and any Transaction Party, or any of its equity
holders or its affiliates.  You acknowledge and agree that the
transactions contemplated by this Commitment Letter and the Fee Letters
(including the exercise of rights and remedies hereunder and thereunder) are
arm s-length commercial transactions between each Covered Party, on the one
hand, and the Transaction Parties, on the other, and in connection therewith and
with the process leading thereto, (i) no Covered Party has assumed (A) an
advisory responsibility in favor of any Transaction Party, any of their
respective equity holders or affiliates with respect to the financing
transactions contemplated hereby or (B) a fiduciary responsibility in favor
of any Transaction Party, any of their respective equity holders or affiliates
with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, or in each case, the
exercise of rights or remedies with respect thereto or the process leading
thereto 

(irrespective
of whether any Covered Party has advised, is currently advising or will advise
any Transaction Party, or any of their respective equity holders or affiliates
on other matters) or any other obligation to any Covered Party except the
obligations expressly set forth in this Commitment Letter and the Fee Letters
and (ii) each Covered Party is acting solely as a principal and not as the agent
or fiduciary of any Transaction Party, its management, equity holders,
affiliates, creditors or any other person.  You acknowledge and agree
that you have consulted your own legal and financial advisors to the extent you
deemed appropriate and that you are responsible for making your own independent
judgment with respect to such transactions and the process leading
thereto.  You agree that you will not claim that any Covered Party has
rendered advisory services of any nature or respect with respect to the
financing transactions contemplated hereby, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty
to you or any of the other Transaction Parties, in connection with such
transactions or the process leading thereto. 

In
addition, please note that each of JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs (or their
respective affiliates) has been retained by Green as its financial advisor, and
that each of Morgan Stanley and BAS (or their respective affiliates) has been
retained by Crimson as its financial advisor (each in such capacity, a   Financial
Advisor  ) in connection with the Combination.  You agree to
such retention, and further agree not to assert any claim based on any actual or
potential conflicts of interest that might be asserted to arise or result from,
on the one hand, the engagement of the Financial Advisor and, on the other hand,
any Covered Party arranging or providing or contemplating arranging or providing
financing as contemplated herein. 

In
addition, please note that no Covered Party provides accounting, tax or legal
advice.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, you (and
each employee, representative or other agent thereof) may disclose to any and
all persons, without limitation of any kind, the tax treatment and tax structure
of the Credit Facilities and all materials of any kind (including opinions or
other analyses) that are provided to it relating to such tax treatment and tax
structure.  However, any information relating to the tax treatment or
tax structure will remain subject to the confidentiality provisions hereof (and
the foregoing sentence will not apply) to the extent reasonably necessary to
enable the parties hereto, their respective affiliates, and their and their
respective affiliates  directors and employees to comply with applicable
securities laws.  For this purpose,  tax treatment  means U.S. federal
or state income tax treatment, and  tax structure  is limited to any facts
relevant to the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the transactions
contemplated by this Commitment Letter but does not include information relating
to the identity of the parties hereto or any of their respective
affiliates. 

This
Commitment Letter shall not be assignable by you without the prior written
consent of the Commitment Parties (and any purported assignment without such
consent shall be null and void), is intended to be solely for the benefit of the
parties hereto and is not intended to confer any benefits upon, or create any
rights in favor of, any person other than the parties hereto and the indemnified
persons, it being understood that each of the Commitment Parties reserves the
right in its sole discretion at any time to assign all or a portion of its
commitment hereunder to one or more of its affiliates and to allocate all or
portion of its fees thereto.  This Commitment Letter may not be
amended or waived except by an instrument in writing signed by you and each of
the Commitment Parties.  This Commitment Letter may be executed in any
number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all of which,
when taken together, shall constitute one agreement.  Delivery of an
executed signature page of this Commitment Letter by facsimile transmission
shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart
hereof.  This Commitment Letter and the Fee Letters are the only
agreements that have been entered into among us with respect to the Credit
Facilities and set forth the entire understanding of the parties with respect
thereto.  This Commitment Letter shall be governed by, and construed
in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York;  provided ,  however , that with
respect to any determination as to whether an Effective Date Material Adverse
Effect shall have occurred, such determination shall be 

governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
Delaware.   Any right
to trial by jury with respect to any action or proceeding arising in connection
with or as a result of this Commitment Letter or the Fee Letters or any
arrangement or other matter referred to herein or therein is hereby waived by
the parties hereto.  

You
irrevocably and unconditionally submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any
state or federal court sitting in the City of New York over any suit, action or
proceeding arising out of or relating to this Commitment Letter or the Fee
Letters.  Service of any process, summons, notice or document by
registered mail addressed to you shall be effective service of process against
such person for any suit, action or proceeding brought in any such
court.  You irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the
laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in any such court
and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding has been brought in any
such court and any claim that any such suit, action or proceeding has been
brought in an inconvenient forum.  A final judgment in any such suit,
action or proceeding brought in any such court may be enforced in any other
courts to whose jurisdiction you are or may be subject, by suit upon
judgment. 

This
Commitment Letter is delivered to you on the understanding that neither this
Commitment Letter, the Term Sheets or the Fee Letters nor any of their terms or
substance shall be disclosed, directly or indirectly, to any other person
(including, without limitation, other potential providers or arrangers of
financing) except (a) to your officers, agents and advisors and, on a
confidential basis, those of Crimson, Green and Vivendi S.A. who are directly
involved in the consideration of this matter or (b) (i) as may be compelled in a
judicial or administrative proceeding, (ii) as otherwise required by law or
regulation or requested by any United States or foreign governmental or
regulatory authority having jurisdiction over any applicable Transaction Party
or (iii) in the case of the Commitment Letter and the Term Sheets (but not the
Fee Letters and the terms and substance thereof) as the Transaction Parties may
determine is advisable to comply with its obligations under securities and other
applicable laws and regulations (in each such case pursuant to clause (b), you
agree to inform us promptly thereof except to the extent prohibited by
applicable law);  provided  that the
foregoing restrictions shall cease to apply (except in respect of the Fee
Letters and the terms and substance thereof) after this Commitment Letter has
been accepted by you and this Commitment Letter has become publicly available as
a result of its disclosure in accordance with the terms of this
paragraph. 

The
Commitment Parties shall use all nonpublic information received by them in
connection with the Transactions solely for the purposes of providing the
services that are the subject of this Commitment Letter and the transactions
contemplated hereby and shall treat confidentially all such information;  provided ,  however , that nothing
herein shall prevent any Commitment Party from disclosing any such information
(a) to any Lenders or participants or prospective Lenders or participants and
any direct or indirect contractual counterparties to any swap or derivative
transaction relating to Navy or Newco or its obligations under the Credit
Facilities (collectively,   Specified
Counterparties  ), (b) in any legal, judicial, administrative proceeding
or other process or otherwise as required by applicable law or regulations (in
which case such Commitment Party shall promptly notify you, in advance, to the
extent permitted by law), (c) upon the request or demand of any regulatory
authority having jurisdiction over such Commitment Party or its affiliates (in
which case such Commitment Party shall, except with respect to any audit or
examination conducted by bank accountants or any governmental bank regulatory
authority exercising examination or regulatory authority, promptly notify you,
in advance, to the extent lawfully permitted to do so), (d) to the employees,
legal counsel, independent auditors, professionals and other experts or agents
of such Commitment Party (collectively,   Representatives  ) who
are informed of the confidential nature of such information, (e) to any of its
respective affiliates solely in connection with the Transactions (provided that
such information shall be provided on confidential basis, and such Commitment
Party shall be responsible for its affiliates  compliance with this paragraph),
(f) to the extent 

any
such information becomes publicly available other than by reason of disclosure
by such Commitment Party, its affiliates or Representatives in breach of this
Commitment Letter and (g) for purposes of establishing a  due diligence  or
other similar defense;  provided  that the
disclosure of any such information to any Lenders or prospective Lenders or
participants or prospective participants or Specified Counterparties referred to
above shall be made subject to the acknowledgment and acceptance by such Lender
or prospective Lender or participant or prospective participant or Specified
Counterparty that such information is being disseminated on a confidential basis
in accordance with the standard syndication processes of such Commitment Party
or customary market standards for dissemination of such types of
information.  The obligations of the Commitment Parties under this
paragraph shall remain in effect until the earlier of (i) two years from the
date hereof and (ii) the date the Credit Facilities Documentation is entered
into, at which time any confidentiality undertaking in the Credit Facilities
Documentation shall supersede the provisions of this paragraph. 

Each
of the Commitment Parties hereby notifies you that, pursuant to the requirements
of the USA Patriot Act, Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law on
October 26, 2001) (the   Patriot Act  ), it is
required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower
(as defined in the Term Sheet), which information includes names and addresses
and other information that will allow such Commitment Party to identify the
Borrower in accordance with the Patriot Act. 

The
compensation, reimbursement, indemnification, syndication, market flex and
confidentiality provisions contained herein and in the Fee Letters and any other
provision herein or therein which by its terms expressly survives the
termination of this Commitment Letter shall remain in full force and effect
regardless of whether the Credit Facilities Documentation shall be executed and
delivered and notwithstanding the termination of this Commitment Letter or the
Commitment Parties  commitments hereunder;  provided  that your
obligations under this Commitment Letter (other than your obligations with
respect to market flex, confidentiality and syndication) shall automatically
terminate and be superseded by the provisions of the Credit Facilities
Documentation upon the effectiveness thereof, and you shall automatically be
released from all liability in connection therewith at such time.  The
commitments hereunder may be terminated in whole or in part by you at any time
subject to the provisions of the preceding sentence. 

If
the foregoing correctly sets forth our agreement, please indicate your
acceptance of the terms hereof and of the Term Sheets and the Fee Letters by
returning to us executed counterparts hereof and of the Fee Letters (together
with the fees payable pursuant to the Fee Letters upon acceptance hereof) not
later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on December 3,
2009.  The Commitment Parties commitments and agreements hereunder
will expire at such time in the event we have not received such executed
counterparts (and such fees) in accordance with the preceding
sentence. 

The
commitments and agreements of the Commitment Parties under this Commitment
Letter shall automatically terminate upon the earliest to occur of (i) the
consummation of the Combination, (ii) the execution and delivery of the Credit
Facilities Documentation, (iii) the termination of the Master Agreement and (iv)
December 3, 2010 (or such later date as the  End Date  under the Master
Agreement may be extended pursuant to Section 10.01(d) thereof, but in any
event no later than June 3, 2011) unless, in the case of this clause (iv),
each Commitment Party shall, in its sole discretion, agree to an
extension. 

We
are pleased to have been given the opportunity to assist you in connection with
this important financing. 

Very
      truly yours, 

J.P.
      MORGAN SECURITIES INC. 

By: 

/s/
      Thomas Cassin

Name:
      Thomas Cassin 

Title:
      Managing Director 

JPMORGAN
      CHASE BANK, N.A. 

By: 

/s/
      Peter B. Thauer 

Name:
      Peter B. Thauer 

Title:
      Executive Director 

GOLDMAN
      SACHS CREDIT PARTNERS L.P. 

By: 

/s/
      Alexis Maged 

Name:
      Alexis Maged 

Title:
      Authorized Signatory 

MORGAN
      STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC. 

By: 

/s/
      Anish Shah 

Name:
      Anish Shah 

Title:
      Vice President 

BANC
      OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC 

By: 

/s/
      Andrew M. Hensley   

Name:
      Andrew M. Hensley 

Title:
      Director 

BANK
      OF AMERICA, N.A. 

By: 

/s/
      Peter van der Horst 

Name:
      Peter van der Horst 

Title:
      Senior Vice President 

CITIGROUP
      GLOBAL MARKETS INC. 

By: 

/s/
      Carolyn A.
      Kee                           

Name:
      Carolyn A.
      Kee                           

Title:
      Managing Director 

Accepted
and agreed to as of 

the
date first written above by: 

NBC
UNIVERSAL, INC. 

By: 

/s/
      Jeffrey A. Zucker 

Name:
      Jeffrey A. Zucker 

Title:
      President   CEO 

Exhibit
A  

TRANSACTIONS
DESCRIPTION 

Capitalized
terms used but not defined in this Exhibit A shall have the meanings set forth
in the Commitment Letter to which this Exhibit A is attached and in the other
Exhibits attached thereto or, when specified, the Master Agreement (as defined
below). 

NBC
Universal, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Navy  ), intends to
enter into that certain Master Agreement dated as of December 3, 2009
(collectively with the Ancillary Agreements and Disclosure Letters described
therein, the   Master
Agreement  ) with Comcast Corporation (  Crimson  ), General
Electric Company   (  Green  ) and Navy, LLC
(  Newco   and,
together with Crimson, Green and you, the   Transaction
Parties  ), pursuant to which, among other steps, (i) 100% of the issued
and outstanding equity interests in Navy will be contributed to Newco, and (ii)
certain of Crimson s assets and liabilities, collectively identified in the
Master Agreement as the Contributed Comcast Businesses (the   Contributed Comcast
Businesses  ) will be contributed to Navy and combined (the   Combination  ) with
certain of the assets and liabilities of Navy and its subsidiaries, collectively
identified in the Master Agreement as the NBCU Businesses (including certain
assets and liabilities contributed to Navy but excluding the Excluded NBCU
Assets and the Excluded NBCU Liabilities (each, as defined in the Master
Agreement)) (the   NBCU
Businesses   each of the NBCU Businesses and the Contributed Comcast
Businesses, a   Contributed Business  
and, collectively, the   Contributed
Businesses  ). 

In
connection with the foregoing, it is intended that: 

(a)           Navy
Holdco 1 (as defined in the Master Agreement) will, and Green will cause Navy
Holdco 1 to, acquire all the outstanding shares of Navy that it does not already
own; 

(b)           Navy
will make a distribution (the   Navy Dividend  ) to
its equity holders in an aggregate amount of up to $9.1 billion, which will be
financed with the proceeds of: 

(i)           $3.0
billion from a senior unsecured three-year term loan facility (the   Term Facility  )
having the terms set forth in Exhibit B; and 

(ii)           $6.1
billion from, at the option of the Borrower, either (x) the issuance of senior
unsecured notes (the   Senior Notes  ) in a
public offering or Rule 144A private placement or (y) a senior unsecured 364-day
bridge term loan facility (the   Bridge Facility  )
having the terms set forth in Exhibit C (or any combination of the Senior Notes
and the Bridge Facility as determined by the Borrower); 

(c)           Navy
Holdco 1 will, and Green will cause Navy Holdco 1 to, contribute all of the
outstanding shares of Navy to Navy Holdco 2 (as defined in the Master
Agreement); 

(d)           Navy
will convert from a Delaware corporation to a Delaware limited liability
company; 

(e)           Navy
Holdco 2 will, and Green will cause Navy Holdco 2 to, contribute all of the
outstanding shares of Navy to Newco and Newco will issue membership interests in
Newco (  Newco
Membership Interests  ) to Navy Holdco 2 in exchange
therefor; 

(f)           Green
will, and will cause its Subsidiaries (other than the NBCU Entities) (each of
the terms  Subsidiaries  and  NBCU Entities , as defined in the Master
Agreement) to, transfer, directly or 

indirectly,
the Contributed NBCU Assets (as defined in the Master Agreement) to Navy and
Navy shall assume the Assumed NBCU Liabilities (as defined in the Master
Agreement); 

(g)           Crimson
will, or will cause one or more of its Subsidiaries to, contribute or transfer,
as applicable, the Contributed Comcast Assets (as defined in the Master
Agreement) to Newco or, at the direction of Newco, to Navy, and Newco or Navy,
as applicable, shall assume the Assumed Comcast Liabilities (as defined in the
Master Agreement), and Newco will issue to Crimson Newco Membership Interests in
consideration therefor; and 

(h)           Immediately
following the transactions described by the foregoing clauses (a) through (g),
Crimson will purchase Newco Membership Interests from Navy Holdco 2, the
consummation of which will result in Crimson and Navy Holdco 2 owning 51% and
49% of the outstanding Newco Membership Interests, respectively; 

(i)           In
addition to the Senior Notes and/or the Bridge Facility, in connection with the
consummation of the Combination Navy will enter into a $750.0 million three-year
revolving credit facility (the   Revolving Facility  
the Revolving Facility, together with the Term Facility, the   Senior Facilities  
each of the Senior Facilities and the Bridge Facility, a   Credit Facility   and
collectively, the   Credit Facilities  ),
in each case, having the terms set forth in Exhibit B. 

The
transactions described above are collectively referred to herein as the   Transactions  . 

Exhibit
B  

SENIOR
FACILITIES 

Summary
of Terms and Conditions 

December
2009 

_______________________ 

Set
forth below is a summary of the terms and conditions for the Senior
Facilities.  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit B
shall have the meanings set forth in the Commitment Letter to which this Exhibit
B is attached and in the other Exhibits attached thereto. 

I.
       PARTIES  

Borrower: 

NBC
      Universal, Inc.   (the   Borrower  ). 

Joint
      Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners: 

J.P.
      Morgan Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. (  GSCP  ) and
      Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. (  MSSF  )
      (collectively, the   Lead
      Arrangers  ). 

Co-Lead
      Arrangers: 

Banc
      of America Securities LLC (  BAS  ) and
      Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (  CGMI  )
      (collectively, the   Co-Lead
      Arrangers  ). 

Administrative
      Agent: 

JPMorgan
      Chase Bank, N.A. (  JPMorgan Chase
      Bank   and in such capacity, the   Administrative
      Agent  ). 

Co-Syndication
      Agents: 

GSCP
      and MSSF. 

Co-Documentation
      Agents: 

Bank
      of America, N.A. (  BOA  ) and
      CGMI. 

Lenders: 

A
      syndicate of banks, financial institutions and other entities, including
      JPMorgan Chase Bank, GSCP, MSSF, BOA and CGMI arranged by the Lead
      Arrangers (collectively, the   Lenders  ). 

II.
       CREDIT
      FACILITIES  

A.
       Term
      Facility  

Type
      and Amount: 

A
      three-year term loan facility (the   Term Facility  
      the commitments thereunder, the   Term
      Commitments  ) in the amount of $3.0 billion (the loans thereunder,
      the   Term
      Loans  ). 

Availability: 

The
      Term Loans shall be made in a single drawing on the Effective
      Date.  Repayments and prepayments of the Term Loans may not be
      reborrowed. 

Maturity
      and Amortization: 

The
      Term Loans will mature on the date that is three years after the Effective
      Date (as defined below) (the   Term Facility Maturity
      Date  ). 

The
      Term Loans shall be repayable (i) in an amount equal to 10% of the
      original principal amount of the Term Facility on the one-year anniversary
      of the Effective Date, (ii) thereafter until the Term Facility Maturity
      Date, in quarterly installments equal to 2.5% of the original principal
      amount of the Term Facility and (iii) with the balance payable in full on
      the Term Facility Maturity Date. 

Use
      of Proceeds: 

The
      proceeds of the Term Loans shall be used to finance a portion of the Navy
      Dividend, to pay fees and expenses in connection with the Transactions and
      for general corporate purposes and working capital of the Borrower and its
      subsidiaries. 

B.
       Revolving
      Facility  

Type
      and Amount: 

A
      three-year revolving credit facility (the   Revolving
      Facility   the commitments thereunder, the   Revolving
      Commitments  , and the Revolving Commitments, together with the Term
      Commitments,   Commitments  )
      in the amount of $750.0 million (the loans thereunder, the   Revolving
      Loans   and the Revolving Loans, together with the Term Loans,
        Loans  ). 

Availability: 

The
      Revolving Facility shall be available on a revolving basis during the
      period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on the date that is
      three years after the Effective Date (the   Revolving Termination
      Date  ). 

Letters
      of Credit: 

A
      portion of the Revolving Facility to be agreed shall be available for the
      issuance of letters of credit (the   Letters of
      Credit  ) by JPMorgan Chase Bank and such other Lenders as the
      Borrower and Administrative Agent shall agree (such Lenders collectively
      with JPMorgan Chase Bank, the   Issuing
      Lenders  ).  No Letter of Credit shall have an expiration
      date after the earlier of  (a)  one year after
      the date of issuance and  (b)  five business
      days prior to the Revolving Termination Date,  provided  that
      any Letter of Credit with a one-year tenor may provide for the renewal
      thereof for additional one-year periods (which shall in no event extend
      beyond the date referred to in clause (b) above). 

Drawings
      under any Letter of Credit shall be reimbursed by the Borrower (whether
      with its own funds or with the proceeds of Revolving Loans) within one
      business day.  To the extent that the Borrower does not so
      reimburse the relevant Issuing Lender, the Lenders under the Revolving
      Facility shall be irrevocably and unconditionally obligated to reimburse
      such Issuing Lender on a  pro   rata 
      basis. 

Competitive
      Loans: 

The
      Borrower shall have the option to request that the Lenders bid for loans
      (  Competitive
      Loans   bearing interest at ABR (as defined in Annex I) or a margin
      over the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in Annex I), with specified
      maturities ranging from 7 to 360 days.  Each Lender shall have
      the right, but not the obligation, to submit bids at its
      discretion.  The Borrower, by notice given four business days in
      advance in the case of Eurodollar Rate bids and one business day in
      advance in the case of ABR bids, shall specify the proposed date of
      borrowing, the interest period, the amount of the Competitive Loan and the
      maturity date thereof, the interest rate basis to be used by the Lenders
      in bidding and such other terms as the Borrower may
      specify.  The Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of
      the terms of the Borrower s notice, and, subject to acceptance by the
      Borrower, bids shall be allocated to each Lender in ascending order from
      the lowest bid to the highest bid acceptable to the
      Borrower.  While Competitive Loans are outstanding, the
      available commitments under the Revolving Facility shall be reduced by the
      aggregate amount of such Competitive Loans. 

Maturity: 

The
      Revolving Termination Date. 

Use
      of Proceeds: 

The
      Revolving Facility shall be used for general corporate purposes and
      working capital of the Borrower and its subsidiaries. 

III.
       CERTAIN PAYMENT
      PROVISIONS  

Fees
      and Interest Rates: 

As
      set forth on Annex I. 

Optional
      Prepayments and Commitment Reductions: 

Loans
      may be optionally prepaid in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 million
      or a multiple of $1.0 million in excess thereof, and Revolving Commitments
      may be optionally reduced in an amount equal to $5.0 million or a multiple
      of $1.0 million in excess thereof, in each case at the option of the
      Borrower at any time upon same day (or in the case of a prepayment of
      Eurodollar Loans (as defined in Annex I), three days  prior) notice, in
      each case, which notice shall have been received prior 11:00 a.m. (New
      York time) on such day;  provided  that
      Competitive Loans may not be prepaid without the consent of the relevant
      Lender.  Optional prepayments of the Term Loans shall be applied
      as directed by the Borrower and may not be reborrowed. 

IV.
       CERTAIN
      CONDITIONS  

Initial
      Conditions: 

The
      Senior Facilities shall be initially available on the Effective Date
      subject only to (a) the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in
      Exhibit D and (b) the accuracy in all material respects of the
      representations and warranties contained in the Senior Credit 

Documentation
      (as defined below), subject to the limitations set forth in the Certain
      Funds Provision contained in the Commitment Letter;  provided  that
      to the extent any of the foregoing are qualified or subject to   material adverse
      effect  , the definition thereof shall be  Effective Date Material
      Adverse Effect  (as defined in the Commitment Letter) for purposes of any
      representations and warranties made or to be made on, or as of, the
      Effective Date, or a date prior thereto (the date upon which all such
      conditions precedent shall be satisfied, the   Effective
      Date  ). 

On-Going
      Conditions: 

The
      making of each extension of credit (other than the initial extensions of
      credit made on the Effective Date) shall be conditioned upon (a) the
      accuracy in all material respects of all representations and warranties in
      the Senior Credit Documentation (other than the material adverse change
      and litigation representations, which shall be made only on the Effective
      Date), and (b) there being no default or event of default in existence at
      the time of, or after giving effect to the making of, such extension of
      credit.  As used herein and in the Senior Credit Documentation,
      a  material adverse change  shall mean any set of circumstances or events
      which (i) has had or would reasonably be expected to have a material
      adverse effect upon the validity or enforceability of any of the Senior
      Credit Documentation or (ii) has had or would reasonably be expected to
      have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Borrower to perform
      its payment obligations under the Senior Credit
Documentation. 

V.
       CERTAIN
      DOCUMENTATION MATTERS  

Senior
      Credit Documentation: 

The
      definitive documentation for the Senior Facilities (the   Senior Credit
      Documentation  ) shall contain the following representations,
      warranties, covenants and events of default, in each case, applicable to
      the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries, and subject to mutually
      agreed exceptions, baskets and materiality qualifiers customary for
      similar investment grade financings or as otherwise set forth
      below: 

Restricted
      Subsidiaries: 

All
      subsidiaries of the Borrower except those designated as unrestricted
      subsidiaries (the   Restricted
      Subsidiaries   the Borrower and the Restricted Subsidiaries,
      collectively, the   Restricted
      Group  ).  The Borrower may designate a Restricted
      Subsidiary as an unrestricted subsidiary or an unrestricted subsidiary as
      a Restricted Subsidiary so long as no default exists or would result
      therefrom and, in certain circumstances, a certificate showing pro forma
      compliance with the financial covenants is provided. 

Representations
      and Warranties: 

Existence
      and qualification; compliance with laws; power; authorization; enforceable
      obligations; no legal bar; financial 

statements;
      no material adverse change (as described above); no material litigation on
      the Effective Date except as disclosed as of the Effective Date; Effective
      Date solvency; no default; authorizations to do business; payment of
      taxes; compliance with margin regulations; Investment Company Act; ERISA
      compliance; ownership of assets; environmental compliance; use of
      proceeds; and disclosure (to include a material adverse effect
      qualifier). 

Affirmative
      Covenants: 

Delivery
      of annual audited financial statements and unaudited quarterly financial
      statements for the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of (a)
      the Borrower and its consolidated subsidiaries and (b) the Restricted
      Group ( provided  that
      with respect to the Restricted Group, only unaudited consolidated balance
      sheets and related consolidated statements of income and cash flows
      without footnotes shall be required to be delivered); delivery of
      quarterly unaudited financial statements for the Contributed Comcast
      Businesses (prior to the Effective Date only); delivery of certificates,
      notices and other information; payment of taxes; preservation of
      existence; maintenance of properties and insurance coverage; compliance
      with laws and material contractual obligations; inspection rights; keeping
      of records and books of account; and use of proceeds. 

Financial
      Covenant: 

With
      respect to the Restricted Group, maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as
      defined in Annex II), to be tested quarterly commencing with the first
      full fiscal quarter ending after the Effective Date not to exceed (i) 4.85
      to 1.00 for the first eight full fiscal quarters ending after
      the Effective Date and (ii) 4.25 to 1.00 thereafter. 

Negative
      Covenants: 

Restrictions
      on: liens; subsidiary indebtedness (including guarantees of indebtedness,
      unless the Senior Facilities shall be equally and ratably guaranteed);
      fundamental changes; transactions with affiliates; ERISA compliance;
      subsidiary distributions and margin regulations. 

In
      addition, to the extent that any  Comcast Note  and/or  GE Note  (as each
      such term is defined in the Master Agreement) is issued and outstanding,
      no repayment thereof shall be permitted if after giving effect to such
      repayment an event of default shall have occurred and be outstanding under
      the Senior Credit Documentation. 

Events
      of Default: 

Failure
      to pay any principal when due; failure to pay any interest or fees payable
      within five days of when due; breach of covenants (subject, in the case of
      all affirmative covenants other than with respect to delivery of default
      notices and use of proceeds, to a 30-day grace period after receipt of
      written notice thereof from the Administrative Agent), representations or
      warranties inaccurate in any material respect when made; 

acceleration
      in respect of material debt and cross event of default to the Bridge
      Facility; final non-appealable material judgments; insolvency and
      bankruptcy events; and  Change of Control . 

Change
      of Control  shall mean (a)(i) prior to a qualified IPO, (x) Green and
      Crimson cease to own, in the aggregate, at least 51% of the Borrower s
      voting stock or (y) any person or group (other than Green or Crimson)
      shall own a greater percentage of the Borrower s voting stock than each of
      Crimson and Green, individually and (ii) after a qualified IPO, any person
      or group (other than Green and Crimson) shall own more than the greater of
      (x) 35% of the Borrower s voting stock or (y) the percentage of the
      Borrower s voting stock then held by Green and Crimson; or (b) a majority
      of the Borrower s directors ceases to be  continuing directors . For
      purposes of the foregoing, references to Crimson and Green shall include
      their respective affiliates. 

Voting: 

Amendments
      and waivers with respect to the Senior Credit Documentation shall require
      the approval of Lenders holding more than 50% of the aggregate amount of
      the Term Loans (or, prior to the Effective Date, the Term Commitments) and
      the Revolving Commitments, except that (a) the consent of each Lender
      directly and adversely affected thereby shall be required with respect to
      (i) reductions in the amount of principal owed to such Lender, (ii)
      reductions in the amount or extensions of the scheduled date of
      amortization or maturity of any Loan, (iii) reductions in the rate of
      interest or any fee or extensions of any due date thereof and (iv)
      increases in the amount or extensions of the expiry date of any Lender s
      Revolving Commitments and (b) the consent of 100% of the Lenders shall be
      required with respect to  modifications to any of the voting
      requirements. 

The
      Senior Credit Documentation shall contain customary provisions (i) with
      respect to defaulting Lenders (including without limitation the non-pro
      rata removal or replacement of any Lender that has (or is controlled by
      any person or entity that has) been deemed insolvent or become subject to
      a bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, conservatorship or other similar
      proceedings, or has otherwise become a  defaulting  lender generally in
      credit agreements to which it is a party (other than actions taken in good
      faith to exercise or preserve its rights and remedies as a lender), in the
      case of any replacement, with another financial institution identified by
      the Borrower and otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Administrative
      Agent and, in the case of Lenders under the Revolving Facility, the
      Issuing Lenders) and (ii) for replacing non-consenting Lenders in
      connection with amendments and waivers requiring the consent of all
      Lenders or of all Lenders directly affected thereby so long as Lenders
      holding more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Term Loans (or, prior
      to the Effective Date, the Term 

Commitments)
      and the Revolving Commitments shall have consented thereto. 

Assignments
      and Participations: 

The
      Lenders shall be permitted to assign their Loans and Commitments with the
      consent (other than in the case of assignments to Lenders, affiliates of
      Lenders and approved funds) of (i) prior to the initial extensions of
      credit on the Effective Date, the Borrower and solely for administrative
      processing purposes, the Administrative Agent, and in the case of
      Revolving Commitments only, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing
      Lenders (such consent of the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lenders
      not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), and (ii) on or after the
      Effective Date with the consent of the Borrower, and in the case of
      Revolving Commitments only, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing
      Lenders (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or
      delayed). 

In
      addition, the Lenders shall be permitted to sell participations in their
      Loans and Commitments.  Participants shall have the same
      benefits as the Lenders with respect to yield protection and increased
      cost provisions.  Voting rights of participants shall be limited
      to those matters with respect to which the affirmative vote of the Lender
      from which it purchased its participation would be required as described
      under  Voting  above.  Pledges of Loans in accordance with
      applicable law shall be permitted without
      restriction.  Promissory notes shall be issued only upon
      request. 

Yield
      Protection: 

The
      Senior Credit Documentation shall contain customary provisions (a)
      protecting the Lenders against increased costs or loss of yield resulting
      from changes in reserve, tax, capital adequacy and other requirements of
      law and from the imposition of or changes in withholding or other taxes
      and (b) indemnifying the Lenders for  breakage costs  incurred in
      connection with, among other things, any prepayment of a Eurodollar Loan
      on a day other than the last day of an interest period with respect
      thereto. 

Expenses
      and Indemnification: 

The
      Borrower shall pay (a) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the
      Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers associated with the
      syndication of the Senior Facilities and the preparation, execution,
      delivery and administration of the Senior Credit Documentation and any
      amendment or waiver with respect thereto (including the reasonable fees,
      disbursements and other charges of one counsel to the Administrative Agent
      and the Lead Arrangers taken as a whole and, solely in the case of a
      conflict of interest, one additional counsel (and, if reasonably
      necessary, one regulatory counsel and one local counsel in each relevant
      jurisdiction) and (b) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses of the
      Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders and the Lenders (including the
      fees, disbursements and other charges of one 

counsel
      to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders and the Lenders taken as
      a whole and, solely in the case of a conflict of interest, one additional
      counsel (and, if reasonably necessary, one regulatory counsel) in
      connection with the enforcement of the Senior Credit
      Documentation. 

The
      Administrative Agent,   the Lead
      Arrangers, the Co-Lead Arrangers, the Issuing Lenders and the Lenders (and
      their affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees,
      advisors and agents) will have no liability for, and will be indemnified
      and held harmless against, any loss, liability, cost or expense incurred
      in respect of the financing contemplated hereby or the use or the proposed
      use of proceeds thereof (except to the extent resulting from (i) the bad
      faith, gross negligence or willful misconduct of an indemnified party,
      (ii) a material breach by a Lender of its express obligations under the
      Senior Credit Documentation or (iii) any claim, litigation, investigation
      or proceeding that does not involve an act or omission of the Borrower or
      any of its affiliates and that is brought by a Lender against another
      Lender in connection with secondary market trading
      activities). 

Governing
      Law and Forum: 

State
      of New York. 

Counsel
      to the Administrative Agent and Lead Arrangers: 

Simpson
      Thacher   Bartlett LLP. 

Annex I  

INTEREST AND CERTAIN
FEES  

Interest
      Rate Options: 

The
      Borrower may elect that the Loans comprising each borrowing bear interest
      at a rate per annum equal to (i) the ABR  plus  the
      Applicable Amount or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate  plus  the
      Applicable Amount. 

As
      used herein: 

ABR 
      means the highest of (i) the rate of interest publicly announced by
      JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in
      New York City (the  Prime Rate ), (ii) the federal funds effective rate
      from time to time plus 0.5% and (iii) the Eurodollar Rate for a one month
      interest period plus 1.0%. 

Applicable
      Amount  means a percentage determined in accordance with the pricing grid
      (the  Pricing Grid ) attached hereto as Annex I-A, subject in each case to
      an increase of 0.50% as of the last day of each 90-day period after the
      Effective Date prior to the repayment in full of the obligations under the
      Bridge Facility (with the Applicable Amount reverting back to the Pricing
      Grid upon repayment). 

Eurodollar
      Rate  means the rate (adjusted for any statutory reserve requirements for
      eurocurrency liabilities) for eurodollar deposits for a period equal to
      one, two, three or six, or, if agreed to by all relevant Lenders, nine or
      twelve months or periods less than one month (as selected by the Borrower)
      appearing on the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page. 

Interest
      Payment Dates: 

In
      the case of Loans bearing interest based upon the ABR ( ABR Loans ),
      quarterly in arrears. 

In
      the case of Loans bearing interest based upon the Eurodollar Rate
      ( Eurodollar Loans ), on the last day of each relevant interest period
      and, in the case of any interest period longer than three months, on each
      successive date three months after the first day of such interest
      period. 

Commitment
      Fees: 

Commencing
      on the Effective Date the Borrower shall pay commitment fees, payable
      quarterly in arrears, calculated at a rate per annum determined in
      accordance with the Pricing Grid, on the average daily unused amount of
      the Revolving Facility.  Competitive Loans shall, for purposes
      of the commitment fee calculations, not be deemed to be a utilization of
      the Revolving Facility. 

Letter
      of Credit Fees: 

The
      Borrower shall pay a fee on all outstanding Letters of Credit at a rate
      per annum equal to the Applicable Margin then in effect with respect to
      Revolving Loans which are Eurodollar Loans on the face amount of each such
      Letter of Credit.  Such fee shall be shared ratably among the
      Lenders participating in the Revolving Facility and shall be payable
      quarterly in arrears. 

A
      fronting fee on the face amount of each Letter of Credit shall be payable
      to the relevant Issuing Lender for its own account in such amounts and at
      such times to be agreed with such Issuing Lender.  In addition,
      customary administrative, issuance, amendment, payment and negotiation
      charges shall be payable to each Issuing Lender for its own
      account. 

Default
      Rate: 

At
      any time when the Borrower is in default in the payment of any amount of
      principal due under the Senior Facilities, such amount shall bear interest
      at 2% above the rate otherwise applicable thereto.  Overdue
      interest, fees and other amounts shall bear interest at 2% above the rate
      applicable to ABR Loans. 

Rate
      and Fee Basis: 

All
      per annum rates shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days (or
      365/366 days, in the case of ABR Loans the interest rate payable on which
      is then based on the Prime Rate) for actual days elapsed. 

Annex
I-A  

PRICING
GRID 

For
purposes of the foregoing,   Debt Rating   means,
as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by S P or Moody s,
as the case may be, of the Borrower s senior unsecured non-credit enhanced
long-term indebtedness for borrowed money;  provided  that if a
Debt Rating is issued by each of S P and Moody s, then the higher of such
Debt Ratings shall apply,  unless  there is a
split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the level that is
one level higher than the lower Debt Rating shall apply.  The Debt
Ratings shall be determined from the most recent public announcement of any
changes in the Debt Ratings. 

Annex II  

Consolidated Leverage Ratio
Definitions   1   

Consolidated EBITDA  
means, for any period, 

(a)
Consolidated Net Income of the Borrower and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a
consolidated basis  plus , (b) to the
extent reducing Consolidated Net Income for such period, and without
duplication: 

(i)
income tax expense; 

(ii)
interest expense (including amortization or write-off of debt issuance costs and
commissions, discounts and other fees and charges associated with Indebtedness),
amortization of capitalized interest and the net amount accrued (whether or not
actually paid) pursuant to any interest rate protection agreement during such
period (or minus the net amount receivable (whether or not actually received)
during such period); 

(iii)
depreciation and amortization expense including amortization of intangibles, but
excluding amortization expense relating to film, television or similar
entertainment rights, investments or inventory (other than amortization expense
relating to film and television library assets resulting from the effects of
purchase accounting); 

(iv)
extraordinary expenses or loss and unusual or non-recurring non-cash expenses or
losses (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate item in the
statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, (x) non-cash losses
from Dispositions not in the ordinary course of business and (y) goodwill or
intangible asset impairment); 

(v)
restructuring charges deemed to be one time in nature (excluding charges
incurred in the ordinary course of business), including restructuring charges in
connection with the Transactions, whether or not otherwise includable as a
separate item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period;
 provided  that
the aggregate amount cash charges permitted to be added back to Consolidated Net
Income under this clause (v) shall not exceed $250,000,000 in any
period; 

(vi)
transaction expenses directly related to the Transactions; and 

(vii)
any other non-cash charges to income (including, but not limited to, stock based
compensation); 

minus , (c) to the
extent included in the calculation of Consolidated Net Income for such period,
and without duplication, 

(i)
income tax benefit; 

(ii)
interest income, other than imputed interest income from long-term
receivables; 

1 
 Defined terms used but not
otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings given them in the Crimson
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.  

(iii)
any extraordinary income or gains and any unusual or non-recurring non-cash
income or gains (including, whether or not otherwise includable as a separate
item in the statement of such Consolidated Net Income for such period, gains on
Dispositions not in the ordinary course of business, but excluding any gains
resulting from the A E Puts); and 

(iv)
any cash expenditures during such period on account of any non-cash item which
was added back to Consolidated EBITDA during any prior period from and after the
Effective Date, all as determined for such period (and provided that the cash
expenditure does not impact Consolidated Net Income in the period
paid). 

Consolidated Leverage
Ratio   means, as of the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal
quarters, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Total Indebtedness on such day to (b)
Consolidated EBITDA for such period. 

Consolidated Net
Income  : for any period, the net income (loss) of the Borrower and its
Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with
GAAP;  provided ,
 however , that
there shall not be included in such Consolidated Net Income (in each case,
without duplication): 

(a)(i)
any net income of any Person if such Person is not a Restricted Subsidiary,
except to the extent of (A) the aggregate amount of cash actually distributed by
such Person during such period to the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary as a
dividend or other distribution which is not subject to any subsequent reduction
or clawback by such Person to a Restricted Subsidiary (subject, in the case of a
dividend or other distribution to a Restricted Subsidiary, to the limitations
contained in clause (b) below);  minus  (B) the
aggregate amount of cash contributions or other cash equity investments made by
the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary in such Person during such period;
and 

(ii)
any net loss of any Person if such Person is not a Restricted Subsidiary, except
to the extent of (A) the aggregate amount of cash contributions or other cash
equity investments made by the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary in such
Person during such period  minus  (B) the
aggregate amount of cash actually distributed by such Person during such period
to the Borrower or a Restricted Subsidiary as a dividend or other distribution
which is not subject to any subsequent reduction or clawback by such Person to a
Restricted Subsidiary (subject, in the case of a dividend or other distribution
to a Restricted Subsidiary, to the limitations contained in clause (b)
below); 

(b)
any net income of any Restricted Subsidiary if such Subsidiary is subject to
restrictions, directly or indirectly, on the payment of dividends or the making
of distributions by such Restricted Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, to the
Borrower, except that 

(i)
the Borrower s equity in the net income of any such Restricted Subsidiary for
such period shall be included in such Consolidated Net Income up to the
aggregate amount of cash that could have been distributed by such Restricted
Subsidiary during such period to the Borrower or another Restricted Subsidiary
as a dividend (subject, in the case of a dividend to another Restricted
Subsidiary, to the limitation contained in this clause); and 

(ii)
the Borrower s equity in a net loss of any such Restricted Subsidiary for such
period shall be included in determining such Consolidated Net
Income. 

Consolidated Total
Indebtedness   means, as of any date of determination, the total
Indebtedness (other than (i) the types described in clauses (c) and (d) of the
definition thereof, and any 

Guaranty
Obligations relating thereto and (ii) with respect to clause (i) of the
definition thereof, the face amount of any undrawn letters of credit and
bankers  acceptances and any Guaranty Obligations relating thereto) of Borrower
and its Restricted Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance
with GAAP   (including, to the
extent not otherwise included therein, (i) the outstanding principal amount of
the Indebtedness underlying any Guaranty Obligations (other than any Guaranty
Obligations with respect to Indebtedness of the types described in clauses (c),
(d) and (i) (with respect to the face amount of any undrawn letters of credit
and bankers  acceptances only) of the definition thereof) and (ii) obligations
owed under any GE Note or the Comcast Note;  provided  that in any
event, Consolidated Total Indebtedness shall not include (a) Indebtedness of
Unrestricted Subsidiaries, (b) the LIN Credit Facility and Guaranty Obligations
in respect thereof (if any), only so long as all of the Borrower s Guaranty
Obligations in respect thereof (if any) (i) have been terminated in full or (ii)
constitute  Excluded NBCU Liabilities  under the Master Agreement (as such term
is defined in the Master Agreement in effect as of the date hereof) or (c)
Specified Non-Recourse Debt;  provided   further  that up to
the lesser of (x) $750 million and (y) the then outstanding principal amount of
any GE Note or Comcast Note shall be excluded from the determination of
Consolidated Total Indebtedness to the extent of the aggregate cash and cash
equivalents included in the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its
Restricted Subsidiaries as of the date of any determination (other than any cash
or cash equivalents classified as restricted cash on such balance
sheet). 

Indebtedness   means,
as to any Person, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for
borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds,
debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person
under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property
or assets purchased by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person issued or
assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services, (e) all
Indebtedness of others secured by any Lien on property owned or acquired by such
Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (f)
all Guaranty Obligations of such Person with respect to Indebtedness of others,
(g) all capital lease obligations of such Person, (h) all Attributable
Indebtedness under Sale-Leaseback Transactions under which such Person is the
lessee and (i) all obligations of such Person as an account party in respect of
outstanding letters of credit (whether or not drawn) and bankers  acceptances;
 provided ,  however , that
Indebtedness shall not include (i) trade and other ordinary course payables and
accrued expenses arising in the ordinary course of business, (ii) deferred
compensation, pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities and (iii)
take or pay obligations arising in the ordinary course of business;  provided ,  further , that in the
case of any obligation of such Person which is recourse only to certain assets
of such Person, the amount of such Indebtedness shall be deemed to be equal to
the lesser of the amount of such Indebtedness or the value of the assets to
which such obligation is recourse as reflected on the balance sheet of such
Person at the time of the incurrence of such obligation; and provided, further,
that the amount of any Indebtedness described in clause (e) above shall be the
lesser of the amount of the Indebtedness  or the fair market value of
the property securing such Indebtedness. 

LIN
Credit Facility    means, the Credit
Agreement, dated as of March 2, 1998, among LIN Television of Texas, LP and
General Electric Capital Corporation, as lender, and all amendments,
modifications, supplements, refinancings or replacements
thereof.  

Specified Non-Recourse
Debt   means any account or trade receivable factoring, securitization,
sale or financing facility, the obligations of which are non-recourse (except
with respect to customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities
made in connection with such facility) to the Borrower or any of its Restricted
Subsidiaries. 

Exhibit
C  

BRIDGE
FACILITY 

          Summary
of Terms and Conditions 

December
2009 

          _______________________ 

Set
forth below is a summary of the terms and conditions for the Bridge
Facility.  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Exhibit C
shall have the meanings set forth in the Commitment Letter to which this Exhibit
C is attached and in the other Exhibits attached thereto. 

I.
       PARTIES  

Borrower: 

NBC
      Universal, Inc.   (the   Borrower  ). 

Joint
      Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners: 

J.P.
      Morgan Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. (  GSCP  ) and
      Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. (  MSSF  )
      (collectively, the  Lead
      Arrangers  ). 

Co-Lead
      Arrangers: 

Banc
      of America Securities LLC (  BAS  ) and
      Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (  CGMI  )
      (collectively, the   Co-Lead
      Arrangers  ). 

Administrative
      Agent: 

JPMorgan
      Chase Bank, N.A. (  JPMorgan Chase
      Bank   and in such capacity, the   Administrative
      Agent  ). 

Co-Syndication
      Agents: 

GSCP
      and MSSF. 

Co-Documentation
      Agents: 

Bank
      of America, N.A. (  BOA  ) and
      CGMI. 

Lenders: 

A
      syndicate of banks, financial institutions and other entities, including
      JPMorgan Chase Bank, GSCP, MSSF, BOA and CGMI arranged by the Lead
      Arrangers (collectively, the   Lenders  ). 

II.
       BRIDGE
      FACILITY  

Type
      and Amount: 

364-day
      bridge term loan facility (the   Bridge
      Facility   the commitments thereunder, the   Bridge
      Commitments  ) in the amount of up to $6.1 billion (the loans
      thereunder, the   Bridge Loans  ),
      subject to reductions as set forth under the heading  Mandatory
      Prepayments and Commitment Reductions . 

Availability: 

The
      Bridge Loans shall be made in a single drawing on the Effective Date (as
      defined below).  Repayments and prepayments of the Bridge Loans
      may not be reborrowed. 

Maturity
      and Amortization: 

The
      Bridge Loans will mature on the date that is 364-days after the Effective
      Date (the   Bridge Facility
      Maturity Date  ). 

The
      Bridge Loans shall be repayable in full on the Bridge Facility Maturity
      Date. 

Use
      of Proceeds: 

The
      proceeds of the Bridge Loans shall be used to finance a portion of the
      Navy Dividend, to pay fees and expenses in connection with the
      Transactions and for general corporate purposes and working capital of the
      Borrower and its subsidiaries. 

III.
       CERTAIN PAYMENT
      PROVISIONS  

Fees
      and Interest Rates: 

As
      set forth on Annex I. 

Optional
      Prepayments: 

Bridge
      Loans may be optionally prepaid in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0
      million or a multiple of $1.0 million in excess thereof at the option of
      the Borrower at any time upon same day (or in the case of a prepayment of
      Eurodollar Loans (as defined in Annex I), three days  prior) notice, in
      each case, which notice shall have been received prior 11:00 a.m. (New
      York time) on such day.  Optional prepayments of the Bridge
      Loans may not be reborrowed. 

Mandatory
      Prepayments and Commitment Reductions: 

The
      following amounts shall be applied to prepay the Bridge Loans (and, after
      December 3, 2009 (the  Execution Date ) but prior to the Effective Date,
      to reduce the Bridge Commitments) subject to mutually agreed exceptions,
      baskets and materiality qualifiers customary for similar investment-grade
      financings or as otherwise set forth below: 

(a)
      100% of the net proceeds of any issuance of equity (which prior to the
      Effective Date shall exclude any equity issuances to the Borrower s
      existing equity holders and thereafter shall exclude the proceeds of any
      equity issuance to Crimson or Green) and 100% of the net proceeds of any
      incurrence of debt  for borrowed money (on or after the
      Execution Date) by the Borrower or any of its subsidiaries (subject to
      exceptions to be agreed upon including exceptions for (i) prior to the
      Effective Date, (A) indebtedness identified by the Borrower to the Lead
      Arrangers in writing on or prior to the date hereof and (B) indebtedness
      that is reasonably acceptable to the Lead Arrangers and (ii) after the
      Effective Date, capital leases and purchase money debt in amounts to be
      agreed). 

(b)
      100% of the net proceeds of any sale or other disposition (including as a
      result of casualty or condemnation) (on or after the Execution Date) by
      the Borrower or any of its subsidiaries of any assets, except for sales or
      other dispositions in the ordinary course of business and subject to
      certain other customary exceptions (including reinvestment rights) to be
      agreed upon. 

Any
      such amounts received by the Borrower or the Contributed Businesses after
      the Execution Date but on or prior to the Effective Date shall
      automatically reduce the Bridge Commitments available to the Borrower on
      the Effective Date by such amount. 

Mandatory
      prepayments of the Bridge Loans may not be reborrowed. 

IV.
       CERTAIN
      CONDITIONS  

The
      availability of the Bridge Facility on the Effective Date will be subject
      only to (a) the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Exhibit D
      and (b) the accuracy in all material respects of the representations and
      warranties contained in the Bridge Credit Documentation (as defined below)
      subject to the limitations set forth in the Certain Funds Provision in the
      Commitment Letter; provided that to the extent any of the foregoing are
      qualified or subject to  material adverse effect , the definition thereof
      shall be  Effective Date Material Adverse Effect  (as defined in the
      Commitment Letter) for purposes of any representations and warranties made
      or to be made on, or as of, the Effective Date, or a date prior thereto
      (the date upon which all such conditions precedent shall be satisfied, the
       Effective Date ). 

V.
       CERTAIN
      DOCUMENTATION MATTERS  

Bridge
      Credit Documentation: 

The
      definitive documentation for the Bridge Facility (the   Bridge Credit
      Documentation  ) shall contain representations, warranties,
      covenants, events of default and provisions relating to voting,
      assignments and participations, yield protection, and expenses and
      indemnification substantially the same as those contained in the Senior
      Credit Documentation;  provided  that
      the Bridge Credit Documentation shall also contain negative covenants
      restricting (i) dividends and other payments in respect of capital stock
      (other than tax distributions whether or not a default or event of default
      exists) and (ii) acquisitions of a majority of the voting stock with
      ordinary voting power, or all or substantially all of the assets, of any
      person and investments in any person of less than a majority of the voting
      stock with ordinary voting power in excess of $1.0 billion for any single
      transaction and $2.0 billion in the aggregate, in each case, subject to
      mutually agreed exceptions, baskets and materiality qualifiers customary
      for similar investment-grade financings or as otherwise set forth herein;
       provided 
      that with respect to the covenant described in (i) above, no such
      restrictions shall be applicable in the Bridge Credit Documentation until
      the Effective Date. 

In
      addition, to the extent that any Comcast Note and/or GE Note is issued and
      outstanding, no repayment thereof shall be 

permitted
      (i) if the principal amount of all indebtedness outstanding under any
      Comcast Note and/or GE Note exceeds $750.0 million in the aggregate or
      (ii) if after giving effect to such repayment an event of default shall
      have occurred and be outstanding under the Bridge Credit
      Documentation. 

Any
      subsidiary of the Borrower which guarantees any other Credit Facility or
      the Senior Notes shall be required to guarantee the Bridge
      Facility. 

The
      restrictions contained in the Bridge Credit Documentation shall cease to
      have effect upon the termination of the Bridge Commitments and/or the
      repayment in full of the Bridge Loans. 

Governing
      Law and Forum: 

State
      of New York. 

Counsel
      to the Administrative Agent and Lead Arrangers: 

Simpson
      Thacher   Bartlett LLP. 

Annex I  

INTEREST AND CERTAIN
FEES  

Interest
      Rate Options: 

The
      Borrower may elect that the Bridge Loans bear interest at a rate per annum
      equal to (i) the ABR  plus  the
      Applicable Amount or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate  plus  the
      Applicable Amount. 

As
      used herein: 

ABR 
      means the highest of (i) the rate of interest publicly announced by
      JPMorgan Chase Bank as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in
      New York City (the  Prime Rate ), (ii) the federal funds effective rate
      from time to time plus 0.5% and (iii) the Eurodollar Rate for a one month
      interest period plus 1.0%. 

Applicable
      Amount  means a percentage determined in accordance with the pricing grid
      attached hereto as Annex I-A, subject in each case to an increase of 0.50%
      as of the last day of each 90-day period after the Effective
      Date. 

Eurodollar
      Rate  means the rate (adjusted for any statutory reserve requirements for
      eurocurrency liabilities) for eurodollar deposits for a period equal to
      one, two, three or six months (as selected by the Borrower) appearing on
      the Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page. 

Interest
      Payment Dates: 

In
      the case of Bridge Loans bearing interest based upon the ABR ( ABR
      Loans ), quarterly in arrears. 

Duration
      Fees: 

The
      Borrower shall pay duration fees on the aggregate principal amount of the
      outstanding Bridge Loans in such amounts and on such dates as are set
      forth on Annex I-B. 

Default
      Rate: 

At
      any time when the Borrower is in default in the payment of any amount of
      principal due under the Bridge Facility, such amount shall bear interest
      at 2% above the rate otherwise applicable thereto.  Overdue
      interest, fees and other amounts shall bear interest at 2% above the rate
      applicable to ABR Loans. 

Rate
      and Fee Basis: 

All
      per annum rates shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days (or
      365/366 days, in the case of ABR Loans the interest rate payable on which
      is then based on the Prime Rate) for actual days elapsed. 

Annex
I-A  

PRICING
GRID 

For
purposes of the foregoing,   Debt Rating   means,
as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by S P or Moody s,
as the case may be, of the Borrower s senior unsecured non-credit enhanced
long-term indebtedness for borrowed money;  provided  that if a
Debt Rating is issued by each of S P and Moody s, then the higher of such
Debt Ratings shall apply,  unless  there is a
split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, in which case the level that is
one level higher than the lower Debt Rating shall apply.  The Debt
Ratings shall be determined from the most recent public announcement of any
changes in the Debt Ratings. 

Annex
I-B  

BRIDGE
FACILITY DURATION FEES 

The
Borrower shall pay a duration fee for the ratable benefit of each Lender under
the Bridge Facility on the dates set forth below, equal to the Applicable
Duration Fee Percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Bridge Loans
outstanding as of such date 

Exhibit
D  

CONDITIONS
PRECEDENT 

The
availability of the Credit Facilities, in addition to the conditions expressly
set forth Commitment Letter and the Term Sheets attached as Exhibits B and C
thereto, shall be subject to the satisfaction of the following
conditions.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the
meanings given in the Commitment Letter and Term Sheets. 

1.  The
Borrower shall have executed and delivered definitive documentation with respect
to the Senior Facilities and the Bridge Facility, in each case consistent with
the terms set forth in Exhibits B and C, respectively. 

2.  (a)
The Transactions shall have been consummated substantially concurrently with the
initial funding of the Credit Facilities in accordance with the terms of the
Master Agreement; (b) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Lead Arrangers
copies of all material amendments, modifications, waivers and consents under the
Master Agreement; and (c) without the prior written consent of the Lead
Arrangers, (i) there shall have been no amendment, modification or waiver of any
term or provision of the Master Agreement to the extent that such amendment,
modification or waiver would be materially adverse to the Borrower, the Lead
Arrangers or the Lenders, and (ii) there shall have been no consent under  Sections 6.01(a)(i), (ii) or
(xx)  or  6.01(b)(i), (ii) or
(xix)  of the Master Agreement by any party thereto that would permit
conduct otherwise prohibited by the Master Agreement in the absence of such
consent to the extent such consent would be materially adverse to the Borrower,
the Lead Arrangers or the Lenders and (1) was granted prior to the execution and
delivery of the Credit Facilities Documentation or (2) was granted after the
execution and delivery of the Credit Facilities Documentation, relates to the
Contributed Comcast Businesses and such conduct would not otherwise have been
permitted under the Credit Facilities Documentation, if the Contributed Comcast
Businesses had been subject to the terms thereof to the same extent as Navy and
its subsidiaries. 

3.  The
Lenders, Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers shall have received all
fees and expenses required to be paid on or before the Effective Date to the
extent invoiced at least two business days prior to the Effective
Date. 

4.  The
Borrower shall on the Effective Date, and taking into account the Transactions,
have (i) an unsecured long-term obligations rating of at least  Baa3  (with
stable (or better) outlook) from Moody s Investor Service Inc. and (ii) a
long-term issuer credit rating of at least  BBB-  (with stable (or better)
outlook) from Standard and Poor s Ratings Group, which ratings and outlooks
shall have been reaffirmed prior to funding (including in connection with any
offering of Senior Notes). 

5.  The
Borrower shall be in compliance with the Consolidated Leverage Ratio contained
in the Credit Facilities Documentation determined on a pro forma basis after
giving effect to the Transactions. 

6.  The
Administrative Agent shall have received such legal opinions, certificates
(including a chief financial officer s solvency certificate), documents and
other instruments and information (including with respect to PATRIOT Act and
related compliance, which requested information shall have been received at
least five business days prior to the Effective Date) as are customary for
transactions of this type as it may reasonably request. 

7.  The
Lenders shall have received (i) audited financial statements of the NBCU
Businesses for the three most recent fiscal years ended at least 90 days prior
to the Effective Date, 

(ii) unaudited
consolidated financial statements of the NBCU Businesses for each interim
quarterly period ended after the latest fiscal year referred to in
clause (i) above (which interim quarterly period shall have ended at least
45 days prior to the Effective Date), and unaudited consolidated financial
statements for the same period of the prior fiscal year, (iii) such audited
or unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Contributed Comcast
Businesses to the extent necessary to comply with Regulation S-X of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (  Regulation S-X  ) in a
registered offering and (iv) all other financial statements for completed or
pending acquisitions that may be required under Regulation S-X in a
registered offering. 

8.  The
Lenders shall have received a pro forma consolidated balance sheet of the
Borrower as at the end of the most recent fiscal year ended at least 90 days
prior to the Effective Date and a pro forma statement of operations for each of
(i) the most recent fiscal year of the NBCU Businesses ended at least 90 days
prior to the Effective Date and (ii) the most recent interim period of the NBCU
Businesses and the comparable interim period of the preceding fiscal year ending
at least 45 days prior to the Effective Date, in each case adjusted to give
effect to the consummation of the Transactions and the financings contemplated
hereby as if such transactions had occurred on such date or on the first day of
such period, as applicable, prepared in accordance with
Regulation S-X. 

9.  All
existing indebtedness for borrowed money of Newco, Navy and their respective
subsidiaries, and the Contributed Comcast Businesses (other than indebtedness of
less than majority owned joint ventures) shall have been repaid in full other
than (i) the Senior Notes, (ii) indebtedness identified by the Borrower to the
Lead Arrangers in writing on or prior to the date hereof and (iii) other
indebtedness acceptable to the Lead Arrangers. 

</EX-10.U>

<EX-12.A>
 7
 ex12a.htm

ex12a.htm 

Exhibit
12(a) 

General
Electric Company 

        Computation
of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

(a) 

Earnings
      before income taxes, noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and
      undistributed earnings of equity
investees. 

(b) 

Included
      interest on tax deficiencies. 

(c) 

Considered
      to be representative of interest factor in rental
  expense. 

</EX-12.A>

<EX-11.B>
 8
 ex12b.htm

ex12b.htm 

Exhibit
12(b) 

General
Electric Company 

        Computation
of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock
Dividends 

(a) 

Earnings
      before income taxes, noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and
      undistributed earnings of equity
investees. 

(b) 

Included
      interest on tax deficiencies. 

(c) 

Considered
      to be representative of interest factor in rental
  expense. 

</EX-11.B>

<EX-21>
 9
 ex21.htm

ex21.htm 

Exhibit
21 

SUBSIDIARIES
OF REGISTRANT 

General
Electric s principal affiliates as of December 31, 2009, are listed below. All
other affiliates, if considered in the aggregate as a single affiliate, would
not constitute a significant subsidiary. 

AFFILIATES
OF REGISTRANT INCLUDED IN REGISTRANT S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Percentage
      of voting 

securities
      directly or 

State
      or Country 

indirectly
      owned by 

of
      incorporation 

registrant
      (1) 

or
      organization 

Amersham
      Health Norge AS 

100 

Norway 

Amersham
      plc 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

Bently
      Nevada, LLC 

100 

Delaware 

Cardinal
      Cogen, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

Caribe
      GE International of Puerto Rico, Inc.  

100 

Puerto
      Rico 

Datex-Ohmeda,
      Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Aviation Service Operation LLP  

100 

Singapore 

GE
      Aviation Systems Group Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom and Northern Ireland 

GE
      Aviation Systems North America, Inc. 

100 

United
      States 

GE
      Aviation U.K. 

100 

United
      Kingdom and Northern Ireland 

GE
      Betz International Inc. 

100 

United
      States 

GE
      Caledonian Limited  

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Canada Company 

100 

Canada 

GE
      Capital Global Financial Holdings, Inc. 

100 

United
      States 

GE
      Capital UK Finance 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Drives   Controls, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Druck Holdings Limited  

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Energy Europe B.V.  

100 

Netherlands 

GE
      Energy Holding SAS 

100 

France 

GE
      Energy Netherlands, B.V. 

100 

Netherlands 

GE
      Energy Parts, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Energy Products France SNC  

100 

France 

GE
      Energy Services, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services - Dallas, LP 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services Distribution, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services UNC Holding I, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Engine Services, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Europe Holdings LLC 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Fanuc Intelligent Platforms, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Fanuc Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Financial Assurance Holdings, Inc. 

100 

United
      States 

GE
      Financial Funding 

100 

Ireland 

GE
      Financial Ireland 

100 

Ireland 

GE
      Funding Finland KY 

100 

Finland 

GE
      Gas Turbines (Greenville) L.L.C. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Generators (Pensacola), L.L.C. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Global Sourcing LLC 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Healthcare AS 

100 

Norway 

GE
      Healthcare Bio-Sciences AB 

100 

Sweden 

Page 1 of
3 

Percentage
      of voting 

securities
      directly or 

State
      or Country 

indirectly
      owned by 

of
      incorporation 

registrant
      (1) 

or
      organization 

GE
      Healthcare European Holdings SARL 

100 

Luxembourg 

GE
      Healthcare Finland Oy  

100 

Finland 

GE
      Healthcare Ltd. 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Healthcare Norge AS 

100 

Norway 

GE
      Healthcare USA Holding Inc. 

100 

United
      States 

GE
      Holdings Luxembourg   Co. SARL 

100 

Luxembourg 

GE
      Hungary Co. Ltd. 

100 

Hungary 

GE
      Infrastructure Aviation Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Infrastructure, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Inspection and Repair Services Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

General
      Electric International Operations Company, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Investments, Inc. 

                  GE
      Ionics, Inc. 

100 

                  100 

Nevada 

                  Massachusetts 

GE
      Jenbacher GmbH 

100 

Austria 

GE
      Jenbacher GmbH   Co OHG 

100 

Austria 

GE
      Keppel Energy Services Pte. Ltd. 

50 

Singapore 

GE
      Medical Holding Belgium SPRL 

84 

Belgium 

GE
      Medical Systems Global Technology Company, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Medical Systems Information Technologies, Inc.  

100 

Wisconsin 

GE
      Medical Systems Societe en Commandite Simple 

100 

France 

GE
      Medical Systems, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Medical Systems, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Medical Systems, Ultrasound   Primary Care Diagnostics,
      LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Military Systems  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Money Servicing Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Osmonics, Inc.  

100 

Minnesota 

GE
      Pacific Holding Pte. Ltd 

100 

Singapore 

GE
      Pacific Pte Ltd 

100 

Singapore 

GE
      Packaged Power, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Packaged Power, L.P. 

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Security, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Transportation Parts, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Transportation Systems Global Signaling, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      UK Group Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

GE
      Water   Process Technologies Canada 

100 

Canada 

GE
      Wind Energy, LLC  

100 

Delaware 

GE
      Yokogawa Medical Systems Ltd.  

100 

Japan,
      Ryukyu Islands 

GEA
      Parts, LLC 

100 

Delaware 

GEA
      Products LP  

100 

Delaware 

GEAE
      Technology, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

GEFH
      AS 

100 

Norway 

GENE
      Holding LLC 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric (Bermuda) Ltd.  

100 

Bermuda 

General
      Electric Canada Company 

100 

Canada 

General
      Electric Capital Corporation 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric Capital Services, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric CGR Europe SAS  

100 

France 

General
      Electric Europe Holdings C.V. 

100 

Netherlands 

Page 2 of
3 

Percentage
      of voting 

securities
      directly or 

State
      or Country 

indirectly
      owned by 

of
      incorporation 

registrant
      (1) 

or
      organization 

General
      Electric Finance Holding GmbH 

100 

Germany 

General
      Electric Financing C.V. 

100 

Netherlands 

General
      Electric International (Benelux) BV  

100 

Netherlands 

General
      Electric International, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

General
      Electric Services (Bermuda) Ltd. 

100 

Bermuda 

General
      Electric Services Luxembourg SARL 

100 

Luxembourg 

Granite
      Services, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

IDX
      Systems Corporation 

100 

Vermont 

MRA
      Systems, Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

NBC
      Universal, Inc.  

80 

Delaware 

Nuclear
      Fuel Holding Co., Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

Nuovo
      Pignone Holding, S.p.A.  

99 

Italy 

Nuovo
      Pignone International SARL 

100 

Luxembourg 

Nuovo
      Pignone S.p.A. 

100 

Italy 

OEC
      Medical Systems, Inc.  

100 

Delaware 

Panametrics
      Ltd. 

100 

Bermuda 

PII
      Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

Reuter-Stokes,
      Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

Unison
      Industries, LLC 

100 

Delaware 

Vetco
      Gray U.K. Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

Viceroy,
      Inc. 

100 

Delaware 

Vital
      Signs Holdings, LLC 

100 

United
      States 

Whatman
      Limited 

100 

United
      Kingdom   Northern Ireland 

(1) 

With
      respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying
      shares in names of directors are included in above
      percentages. 

Page 3 of
3 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 10
 ex23.htm

ex23.htm 

Exhibit
23 

Consent
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The
Board of Directors 

General
Electric Company: 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form
S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-50639, 33-39596, 33-39596-01, 33-29024, 333-59671,
333-72566, 333-130117, 333-155580 and 333-158067), on Form S-4 (Registration No.
333-107556), and on Form S-8 (Registration Nos. 333-01953, 333-42695, 333-74415,
333-83164, 333-98877, 333-94101, 333-65781, 333-88233, 333-117855, 333-99671,
333-102111, 333-142452, 333-155587, 333-158069, 333-158071 and 333-163106) of
General Electric Company of our report dated February 19, 2010, with respect to
the statement of financial position of General Electric Company and consolidated
affiliates as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related statements of
earnings, changes in shareowners  equity and cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended December 31, 2009, and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, which report appears
in the December 31, 2009 annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric
Company. 

Our
report refers to a change in the methods of accounting for impairment of debt
securities, business combinations and noncontrolling interests in 2009, a change
in the method of accounting for fair value measurements and the adoption of the
fair value option for certain financial assets and financial liabilities in
2008, and a change in the methods of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
and for a change or projected change in the timing of cash flows relating to
income taxes generated by leveraged lease transactions in 2007. 

/s/ KPMG
LLP  

KPMG LLP Stamford, Connecticut

        February
19, 2010 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 11
 ex24.htm

ex24.htm 

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL
MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned, being a director or officer
of General Electric Company, a New York corporation (the "Company"), hereby
constitutes and appoints Jeffrey R. Immelt, Brackett B. Denniston III, Keith S.
Sherin, Jamie S. Miller, Michael R. McAlevey, and Christoph A. Pereira, and each
of them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power
of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place
and stead in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports for the
Company's fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 on Form 10-K under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other form as any such
attorney-in-fact may deem necessary or desirable, any amendments thereto, and
all additional amendments thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them
may approve, and to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents
in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and
authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary
to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable Rules and Regulations adopted or
issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or she
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their substitute or
resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand this
19th day of February, 2010 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chairman
      of the Board 

                (Principal
      Executive 

                Officer
      and Director) 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

/s/
      Jamie S. Miller 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Jamie
      S. Miller 

Vice
      Chairman- 

Vice
      President and Controller 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

(Principal
      Accounting Officer) 

(Principal
      Financial Officer) 

(Page 1
of 2) 

/s/
      W. Geoffrey Beattie 

/s/
      Ralph S. Larsen 

W.
      Geoffrey Beattie 

Ralph
      S. Larsen 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      James I. Cash, Jr. 

/s/
      Rochelle B. Lazarus 

James
      I. Cash, Jr. 

Rochelle
      B. Lazarus 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      William M. Castell 

/s/
      James J. Mulva 

William
      M. Castell 

James
      J. Mulva 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Ann M. Fudge 

/s/
      Sam Nunn 

Ann
      M. Fudge 

Sam
      Nunn 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Susan Hockfield 

/s/
      Roger S. Penske 

Susan
      Hockfield 

Roger
      S. Penske 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Andrea Jung 

/s/
      Robert J. Swieringa 

Andrea
      Jung 

Robert
      J. Swieringa 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Alan G. Lafley 

/s/
      Douglas A. Warner III 

Alan
      G. Lafley 

Douglas
      A. Warner III 

Director 

Director 

/s/
      Robert W. Lane 

Robert
      W. Lane 

Director 

A
MAJORITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

      (Page 2
of 2) 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 12
 ex31a.htm

ex31a.htm 

Exhibit
31(a) 

Certification
Pursuant to 

        Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
Amended 

I,
      Jeffrey R. Immelt, certify that: 

1.  

I
      have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric
      Company; 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3.  

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4.  

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)  

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)  

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)  

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors: 

a)  

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b)  

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 19, 2010 

/s/ Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 13
 ex31b.htm

ex31b.htm 

Exhibit
31(b) 

Certification
Pursuant to 

      Rules
13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
Amended 

I,
      Keith S. Sherin, certify that: 

1. 

I
      have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric
      Company; 

2. 

Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a
      material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
      statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
      were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
      report; 

3. 

Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report; 

4. 

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal
      control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a)  

Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
      controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure
      that material information relating to the registrant, including its
      consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
      entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared; 

b)  

Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
      control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
      provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
      reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles; 

c)  

Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
      and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
      the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period
      covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  

Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
      financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent
      fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to
      materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting; and 

5.  

The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
      most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
      the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s
      board of directors: 

a)  

All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
      operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
      reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
      process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b)  

Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control
      over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 19, 2010 

/s/ Keith
      S. Sherin 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32>
 14
 ex32.htm

ex32.htm 

Exhibit
32 

Certification
Pursuant to 

18
U.S.C. Section 1350 

In
connection with the Annual Report of General Electric Company (the  registrant )
on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  report ), we, Jeffrey R. Immelt
and Keith S. Sherin, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
respectively, of the registrant, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to our knowledge: 

(1)   

The
      report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and 

(2) 

The
      information contained in the report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      registrant. 

February
      19, 2010 

/s/
      Jeffrey R. Immelt 

Jeffrey
      R. Immelt 

Chief
      Executive Officer 

/s/
      Keith S. Sherin 

Keith
      S. Sherin 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 ge-20091231.xml

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 ge-20091231.xsd

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 ge-20091231_cal.xml

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 ge-20091231_def.xml

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 21
 ge-20091231_lab.xml

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 22
 ge-20091231_pre.xml

</EX-101.PRE>

