<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110225_10-K_edgar_data_40545_0001193125-11-047479_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>56656192</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>704587</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>11175205</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3100564</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>14309061</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>26597705</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>207</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-047479.hdr.sgml : 20110225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110225163350
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-047479
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GENERAL ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000040545
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]
		IRS NUMBER:				140689340
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00035
		FILM NUMBER:		11641469

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3135 EASTON TURNPIKE
		STREET 2:		W3F
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06828
		BUSINESS PHONE:		203-373-2211

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3135 EASTON TURNPIKE
		STREET 2:		W3F
		CITY:			FAIRFIELD
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06828

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PyklN0a5dimxkQUOPPgDPGJ/fOKkTLBRd2f/23IJE33iXJc9j77tjWarg1HoKJiv
 IQ0PDCKoau8lKZTxs5B49w==

 0001193125-11-047479.txt : 20110225

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    United States Securities and Exchange Commission    
   WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549        FORM
10-K        (Mark One)                    Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010    
   or                    Transition Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934        For the transition period from
                       to
                          
   Commission file number 001-00035        General Electric Company       (Exact name of registrant as specified in charter)   
   
     Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:            
  (Title of class)      Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes         No              Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not
required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes         No              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes         No           
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has
submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        
No              Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):       

Large accelerated
filer          
     
  Accelerated
filer           
 
  Non-accelerated
filer          
     
  Smaller reporting
company               Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).
Yes         No              The aggregate market value of the outstanding common
equity of the registrant as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $159.4 billion. Affiliates of the Company beneficially own, in the aggregate, less than one-tenth of one percent of such
shares. There were 10,618,489,000 shares of voting common stock with a par value of $0.06 outstanding at January 31, 2011.   
   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       The
definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant s Annual Meeting of Shareowners, to be held April 27, 2011, is incorporated by reference in Part III to the extent described therein.   
         (1)   

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents    

Page      

Part I   

Item 1.  
     
   Business    

3  

Item 1A.  
     
   Risk Factors    

15  

Item 1B.  
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   

20  

Item 2.  
     
   Properties   

20  

Item 3.  
     
   Legal Proceedings   

21  

Item 4.  
     
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

22  

Part II   

Item 5.  
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities    

23  

Item 6.  
     
   Selected Financial Data   

26  

Item 7.  
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

27  

Item 7A.  
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

86  

Item 8.  
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

86  

Item 9.  
     
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    

193  

Item 9A.  
     
   Controls and Procedures   

193  

Item 9B.  
     
   Other Information   

194  

Part III   

Item 10.  
     
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

194  

Item 11.  
     
   Executive Compensation   

194  

Item 12.  
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters    

195  

Item 13.  
     
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   

195  

Item 14.  
     
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

195  

Part IV   

Item 15.  
     
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

195  

Signatures   

202  
        
         (2)   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1. Business        General       Unless otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms  GE,   GECS  and
 GECC  on the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. Also, unless otherwise indicated
by the context,  General Electric  means the parent company, General Electric Company (the Company).      General Electric s address is 1
River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001.      We are one of the largest
and most diversified technology and financial services corporations in the world. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and household appliances to medical imaging, business and consumer
financing and industrial products, we serve customers in more than 100 countries and employ approximately 287,000 people worldwide. Prior to January 28, 2011, we also operated a media company, NBC Universal, Inc. (NBCU). Effective
January 28, 2011, we hold a 49% interest in a media entity that includes the NBC Universal businesses. See the NBC Universal section of this Item for additional information. Since our incorporation in 1892, we have developed or acquired new
technologies and services that have broadened and changed considerably the scope of our activities.      In virtually all of our global business activities,
we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in
general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The NBC Television Network, which became part of the media entity referred to above as of January 28, 2011, is a major U.S. commercial broadcast
television network. NBC Universal also competes with other film and television programming producers and distributors, cable/satellite television networks and theme park operators. The businesses in which GECS engages are subject to competition from
various types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies and finance companies associated with
manufacturers.   
         (3)   

Table of Contents  

   This document contains  forward-looking statements    that is, statements related to future, not past,
events. In this context, forward-looking statements often address our expected future business and financial performance and financial condition, and often contain words such as  expect,   anticipate,   intend, 
 plan,   believe,   seek,   see  or  will.  Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For us, particular uncertainties that could cause our
actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements include: current economic and financial conditions, including volatility in interest and exchange rates, commodity and equity prices and the value of
financial assets; the impact of conditions in the financial and credit markets on the availability and cost of General Electric Capital Corporation s (GECC) funding and on our ability to reduce GECC s asset levels as planned; the impact of
conditions in the housing market and unemployment rates on the level of commercial and consumer credit defaults; changes in Japanese consumer behavior that may affect our estimates of liability for excess interest refund claims (Grey Zone); our
ability to maintain our current credit rating and the impact on our funding costs and competitive position if we do not do so; the adequacy of our cash flow and earnings and other conditions which may affect our ability to pay our quarterly dividend
at the planned level; the level of demand and financial performance of the major industries we serve, including, without limitation, air and rail transportation, energy generation, network television, real estate and healthcare; the impact of
regulation and regulatory, investigative and legal proceedings and legal compliance risks, including the impact of financial services regulation; strategic actions, including acquisitions and dispositions and our success in integrating acquired
businesses; and numerous other matters of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. These uncertainties may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those
expressed in our forward-looking statements. These uncertainties are described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A.  Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K Report. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.   
   Operating Segments       Segment revenue and profit information
and additional financial data and commentary on recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations  and in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      Operating businesses that are reported as segments include Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, GE Capital and Home   Business Solutions. Net earnings of GECS and the effect of
transactions between segments are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of each of our operating segments follows.   
  Effective January 1, 2011, we reorganized the Technology Infrastructure segment into three segments   Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. The
results of the Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation businesses are unaffected by this reorganization and we will begin reporting these as separate segments beginning with our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011.
Results for 2010 and prior periods in this Form 10-K Report are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2010 and do not reflect the January 2011 reorganization.      We also continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information for certain businesses within the segments.       Energy Infrastructure       Energy Infrastructure (25.0%, 26.2% and 23.7% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as wind, oil, gas and water.      Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.   
         (4)   

Table of Contents  

    Energy       Energy
serves power generation, industrial, government and other customers worldwide with products and services related to energy production, distribution and management. We offer wind turbines as part of our renewable energy portfolio, which also includes
solar technology. We also sell aircraft engine derivatives for use as industrial power sources. We sell gas turbines and generators that are used principally in power plants for generation of electricity and for industrial cogeneration and
mechanical drive applications. We are a leading provider of Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) technology design and development. IGCC systems convert coal and other hydrocarbons into synthetic gas that, after cleanup, is used as the
primary fuel for gas turbines in combined-cycle systems. IGCC systems produce fewer air pollutants compared with traditional pulverized coal power plants. We sell steam turbines and generators to the electric utility industry and to private
industrial customers for cogeneration applications. Nuclear reactors, fuel and support services for both new and installed boiling water reactors are offered through joint ventures with Hitachi and Toshiba. In addition, we design and manufacture
motors and control systems used in industrial applications primarily for oil and gas extraction and mining. We provide our customers with total solutions to meet their needs through a complete portfolio of aftermarket services, including equipment
upgrades, long-term maintenance service agreements, repairs, equipment installation, monitoring and diagnostics, asset management and performance optimization tools, remote performance testing and Dry Low NOx (DLN) tuning. We continue to invest in
advanced technology development that will provide more value to our customers and more efficient solutions that comply with today s strict environmental regulations.      Energy also offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals, water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid
handling equipment for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems, including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes.   
  On February 1, 2011, we acquired Dresser, Inc., which expands the business s portfolio with technologies for gas engines, control and relief valves,
measurement, regulation and control solutions for gas and fuel distribution.      In addition, Energy provides integrated electrical equipment and systems
used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a
variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems. Energy also offers
integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. Energy also provides protection
and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission.   
  Energy is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain aero-derivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Energy, but
counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2010, such counterparty interests ranged from 5% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such
counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.      Worldwide competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for power
generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as we plan for future
development.       Oil   Gas       Our technology
helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use of the world s energy resources.   
         (5)   

Table of Contents  

   Oil   Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas industry, used in applications
spanning the entire value chain from drilling and completion through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline compression, pipeline inspection, and including downstream processing in refineries and petrochemical plants. The business
designs and manufactures surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary
equipment.      On February 3, 2011, we acquired Wellstream PLC, which expands the business s portfolio with subsea flexible risers and flowlines.
     To ensure that the installed base is maintained at peak condition, our service business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world s
main oil and gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to customers  machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production capability and environmental performance.   
  For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report.       Technology Infrastructure    
  Technology Infrastructure (25.2%, 24.8% and 22.9% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) is one of the world s leading providers of
essential technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world, we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology infrastructure.      Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.       Aviation    
  Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our
military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium,
intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company
jointly owned by GE and the Pratt   Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls-Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
     Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are
shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs.      Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine
lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and
retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC.      Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues
as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2010, such counterparty interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of
production.   
         (6)   

Table of Contents  

   Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power
generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft.      We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO
services are often provided under long-term maintenance contracts.      The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is
intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual
property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards.   
  Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in
technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other.   
   Healthcare       Healthcare has expertise in medical imaging and
information technologies, medical diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and
informing physicians, and helping physicians tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast, non-invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma
cases in the emergency room, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or brain disorders. With diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET)
scanners, X-ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates industry-leading products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare-manufactured
technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic
imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including a pipeline of precision molecular
diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications. On December 22, 2010, we acquired Clarient, Inc., a leading company in the molecular diagnostics sector.      Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity
services.      We compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in
design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market.      Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater
efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets.   
  Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that
apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.   
         (7)   

Table of Contents  

    Transportation    
  Transportation provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine.
We serve customers in more than 100 countries.      Transportation manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the Evolution
Series , the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency s Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit,
marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for
marine power as well as stationary power generation applications.      Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve
fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management
services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network
planning, and control network execution to plan.      For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7.
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report.       NBC Universal
      NBC Universal (NBCU) (11.3%, 9.9% and 9.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment
company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience.   
  NBCU is engaged in the production and distribution of film and television programming; the operation of cable/satellite television networks around the world; the
broadcast of network television through owned and affiliated television stations within the United States; and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet. NBCU s film company, Universal Pictures, produces, acquires,
markets and distributes filmed entertainment and stage plays worldwide in various media formats for theatrical, home entertainment, television and other distribution platforms. NBCU owns the theme park Universal Studios Hollywood, holds a 50% equity
interest in a joint venture, which owns the Universal Studios Florida and Universal s Islands of Adventure theme parks, and brands, designs and develops international theme parks under exclusive licenses. The cable/satellite television networks
provide produced and acquired entertainment, news and information programming to households world-wide. The cable/satellite television networks include USA Network, Bravo, CNBC, SYFY, MSNBC, Oxygen, Universal HD, Chiller, Sleuth, mun2 and branded
channels across Europe, Asia and Latin America. The NBC television network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network. Together, the NBC television network and Telemundo, the U.S. Spanish-language broadcast television network, serve
more than 200 affiliated stations within the United States. At December 31, 2010, NBCU owned and operated 26 television stations each subject to U.S. Federal Communications Commission regulation. NBCU has exclusive U.S. television rights to the
2012 Olympic Games, National Football League Sunday Night Football and the Super Bowl in 2012.   
         (8)   

Table of Contents  

   NBCU is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. The broadcast networks, cable
television networks and television stations are in extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in
these properties are dependent upon NBCU s ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long-term programming contracts, including event-based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of programming to cable/satellite operators.
NBCU s television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet
streaming and electronic sell-through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to NBCU s operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming,
increasing the risk of piracy. NBCU continues to devote substantial resources to protect its intellectual property against unauthorized use.      Prior to
September 2010, we owned 80% of NBCU and Vivendi S.A. (Vivendi) owned 20%. In September 2010, we acquired approximately 38% of Vivendi s 20% ownership interest in NBCU (7.7% of NBCU s outstanding shares). Prior to and in connection with
the transaction with Comcast Corporation (Comcast), we acquired the remaining Vivendi interest in NBCU (12.3% of NBCU s outstanding shares). On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast transferred
certain of its assets comprising cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments to a newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash
of $6.2 billion from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method.      NBC Universal s headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia.       GE Capital       GE Capital (31.3%, 32.0% and 37.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively)
businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial
services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GE s industry-specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market-specific opportunities.   
  During 2010, GE Capital provided approximately $90 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities.
Additionally, we extended approximately $78 billion of credit to approximately 52 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 29,000 new commercial customers and 46,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2010 and
ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 302,000 commercial customers and 179,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S.   
  Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines.      Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia.      GE Capital has communicated
its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a
consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non-strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in
our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward.   
         (9)   

Table of Contents  

    Commercial Lending and Leasing       CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid-market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to
customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many
industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for
the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland.      Historically,
we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our
lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to and availability of capital and a
reduced number of competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and
market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset
management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity.      In the first quarter of 2009, we
deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL.       Consumer
      Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the
world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers  needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity
loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending.      During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which
included our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. GE Money Japan has been classified as discontinued operations. Also in 2008, we
completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100%
ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business.      In the fourth quarter
of 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico, which have been classified as discontinued operations.   
  In 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010,
completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation.      In October 2010, we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail
Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid-sized retailers and dealers.   
         (10)   

Table of Contents  

   Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries
have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance
companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we
operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumer s capacity to repay debt.       Real Estate       Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity
capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition,
refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by
existing income-producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt bonds.      We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity
investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the
level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs.      Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real
estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and
terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.       Energy
Financial Services       Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad-based
commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services
provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency.      We operate in a highly competitive environment.
Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete
globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.       GE Capital Aviation Services
      GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation
industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also
co-sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports.      We operate in a highly
competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition
and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing.   
         (11)   

Table of Contents  

    GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations       GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities (which ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in
the first quarter of 2010); certain consolidated, liquidating securitization entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capital s five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non-allocated amounts
determined by the GECC Chairman.       Home   Business Solutions       Home   Business Solutions (5.8%, 5.4% and 5.6% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics   competitive design, efficient
manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable
such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home   Business Solutions  products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting
products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications.       Appliances and Lighting    
  We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave
ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram , GE Profile , GE , Hotpoint  and GE Caf  .   
  We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales
are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in-home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent,
halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.       Intelligent Platforms    
  Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems,
motion control, and operator interfaces.      We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.   
   GE Corporate Items and Eliminations       During 2009, we sold an
81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. Our remaining Security business was sold in the first quarter of 2010. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies,
including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. These businesses are reported in GE Corporate Items and Eliminations.   
   Discontinued Operations       Discontinued operations primarily
comprised BAC, GE Money Japan, our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico and Plastics.      For further information about
discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (12)   

Table of Contents  

    Geographic Data    
  Geographic data is reported in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of
this Form 10-K Report.      Additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in the Geographic Operations section in Part II,
Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report.       Orders
Backlog       GE s total backlog of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2010 was $66.7 billion, a decrease of 1% from year-end 2009, reflecting
decreased demand at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.0 billion related to products, of which 59% was scheduled for delivery in 2011. Product services orders, included in
this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $20.6 billion at the end of 2010. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were approximately $108.7 billion, which combined with the firm unfilled orders described above
resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175.4 billion at December 31, 2010. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section in Part II,
Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report for further information.       Research and Development       GE-funded research and development expenditures were $3.9 billion, $3.3 billion and
$3.1 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Technology
Infrastructure s Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GE s research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructure s Energy business and Technology Infrastructure s
Healthcare business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE.      Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and
development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology. These technology expenditures were $5.9 billion in 2010 and included our
reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our plants, equipment and processes.       Environmental Matters       Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require
that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.2 billion in 2010, $0.3 billion in 2009 and
$0.2 billion in 2008. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion for each of the next two years.   
         (13)   

Table of Contents  

   As previously disclosed, in 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to
dredge PCB-containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening
peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On
December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decisions setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we
agreed with EPA to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA. We have reviewed EPA s final performance standards for Phase 2 to assess the potential scope and duration of Phase 2, as well as
operational and engineering changes that could be required. Based on this review and our best professional engineering judgment, we increased our reserve for the probable and estimable costs for completing the Hudson River dredging project by $0.8
billion in the fourth quarter of 2010.       Employee Relations       At year-end 2010, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 287,000 persons, of whom approximately 133,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about
employees, see Part II, Item 6.  Selected Financial Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      Approximately 15,200 GE manufacturing and service
employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 105 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in
coordination with, the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four-year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized
employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011, and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements. While results of 2011 union negotiations cannot be predicted, our recent past negotiations have
resulted in agreements that increased costs.      Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are
covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor
contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,500 employees.       Executive Officers
      See Part III, Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  of this Form 10-K Report for information about
Executive Officers of the Registrant.       Other    
  Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide
variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials.      We own, or hold
licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no
operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.   
         (14)   

Table of Contents  

   Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow.   
   
    GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric
Company.      The Company s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room
in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and
should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.   
     Item 1A. Risk Factors       The
following discussion of risk factors contains  forward-looking statements,  as discussed in Item 1.  Business . These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or
elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  (MD A), and the consolidated financial
statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      Our businesses
routinely encounter and address risks, some of which will cause our future results to be different   sometimes materially different   than we presently anticipate. Discussion about important operational risks that our businesses encounter
can be found in the MD A section and in the business descriptions in Item 1.  Business  of this Form 10-K Report. Below, we describe certain important operational and strategic risks. Our reactions to material future developments
as well as our competitors  reactions to those developments will affect our future results.       Our global growth is subject to economic and
political risks.       We conduct our operations in virtually every part of the world. In 2010, approximately 53% of our revenue was attributable to
activities outside the United States. Our operations are subject to the effects of global competition. They are also affected by local economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political changes, some of which
may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. While some of these risks can be hedged using derivatives or other financial instruments and some are insurable, such attempts
to mitigate these risks are costly and not always successful, and our ability to engage in such mitigation has decreased or become even more costly as a result of more volatile market conditions.   
         (15)   

Table of Contents  

    We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations that may change in significant ways.    
  Our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies. There can be no assurance that
laws and regulations will not be changed in ways that will require us to modify our business models and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or
prohibiting them outright. In particular, U.S. and non-U.S. governments are undertaking a substantial review and revision of the regulation and supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions, consumer lending, the over-the-counter
derivatives market and tax laws and regulations, which may have an effect on GE Capital s structure, operations, liquidity and performance. We are also subject to a number of trade control laws and regulations that may affect our ability to
sell our products in global markets. In addition, we are subject to regulatory risks from laws that reduce the allowable lending rate or limit consumer borrowing, local capital requirements that may increase the risk of not being able to retrieve
assets, and changes to tax law that may affect our return on investments. For example, GE s effective tax rate is reduced because active business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S.
rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain active financial services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This
provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with non-U.S. banks and other non-U.S. financial institutions in global markets. This provision, which expires at the end
of 2011, has been scheduled to expire and has been extended by Congress on six previous occasions, including in December of 2010, but there can be no assurance that it will continue to be extended. In the event the provision is not extended after
2011, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended,
we expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2012. In addition, efforts by public and private sectors to control the growth of healthcare costs may lead to lower reimbursements and increased utilization controls related to the
use of our products by healthcare providers. Increased government regulatory scrutiny of medical devices, including reviews of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA) device pre-market authorization process, may impact the requirements for
marketing our products and slow our ability to introduce new products, resulting in an adverse impact on our business. Furthermore, we have been, and expect to continue, participating in U.S. and international economic stimulus programs, which
require us to comply with strict governmental regulations. Inability to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our status in these projects and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.   
   We are subject to legal proceedings and legal compliance risks.       We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings and legal compliance risks in virtually every part of the world. We, our representatives, and the industries in which we operate are at times being reviewed or
investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions, fines and penalties or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. Additionally, we and our subsidiaries are involved in a sizable number of remediation actions to
clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. These include the dredging of polychlorinated biphenyls from a 40-mile stretch of the upper Hudson River in New York State, as described in Item 1.  Business  of this
Form 10-K Report. We are also subject to certain other legal proceedings described in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  of this Form 10-K Report. While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, the
global and diverse nature of our operations means that legal and compliance risks will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, will arise from time to time.
  
         (16)   

Table of Contents  

    The success of our business depends on achieving our objectives for strategic acquisitions, dispositions and joint
ventures.       With respect to acquisitions, mergers and joint ventures, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates at terms acceptable to us or
may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. We will continue to evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses
that may no longer help us meet our objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of
our strategic objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. Even upon reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are
subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing the transaction.       Sustained increases in costs of pension and healthcare benefits may reduce our profitability.       Our results of
operations may be positively or negatively affected by the amount of income or expense we record for our defined benefit pension plans. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require that we calculate income or expense for the plans
using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial market and other economic conditions, which may change based on changes in key economic indicators. The most significant year-end assumptions we used to estimate
pension income or expense for 2011 are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets. In addition, we are required to make an annual measurement of plan assets and liabilities, which may result in a significant
change to equity through a reduction or increase to Accumulated gains (losses)   net, Benefit plans. At the end of 2010, the GE Pension Plan was underfunded by $2.8 billion, and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan, an unfunded plan, had a
projected benefit obligation of $4.4 billion. For a discussion regarding how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see Critical Accounting Estimates   Pension Assumptions in Part II, Item 7.
 Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form
10-K Report. Although GAAP expense and pension funding contributions are not directly related, key economic factors that affect GAAP expense would also likely affect the amount of cash we would contribute to pension plans as required under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). Failure to achieve expected returns on plan assets could also result in an increase to the amount of cash we would be required to contribute to pension plans. In addition, upward pressure on the cost
of providing healthcare benefits to current employees and retirees may increase future funding obligations. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost
increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce our profitability.       Conditions in the financial and credit markets may affect the availability
and cost of GE Capital funding.       A large portion of GE Capital s borrowings is in the form of commercial paper and long-term debt. GE
Capital s outstanding commercial paper and long-term debt was $37 billion and $350 billion as of December 31, 2010, respectively. We continue to rely on the availability of the unsecured debt markets to access funding for term maturities
for 2011 and beyond. In addition, we rely on the availability of the commercial paper markets to refinance maturing commercial paper debt throughout the year. In order to further diversify our funding sources, we also plan to expand our reliance on
alternative sources of funding, including bank deposits, securitizations and other asset-based funding. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in diversifying our funding sources or that the short and long-term credit markets will be
available or, if available, that the cost of funding will not substantially increase and affect the overall profitability of GE Capital. Factors that may cause an increase in our funding costs include: a decreased reliance on short-term funding,
such as commercial paper, in favor of longer-term funding arrangements; decreased capacity and increased competition among debt issuers; and increased competition for deposits in our affiliate banks  markets. If GE Capital s cost of
funding were to increase, it may adversely affect its competitive position and result in lower lending margins, earnings and cash flows as well as lower returns on its shareowner s equity and invested capital.   
         (17)   

Table of Contents  

    If conditions in the financial markets deteriorate, it may adversely affect the business and results of operations
of GE Capital.       Increased payment defaults and foreclosures and sustained levels of high unemployment have resulted in significant write-downs of
asset values by financial institutions, including GE Capital. If these conditions continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fully the value of certain assets, including goodwill, intangibles and tax assets. In
addition, although we   have established allowances for losses in GE Capital s portfolio of financing receivables that we believe are adequate, further deterioration in the economy and in default and recovery rates could require us to
increase these allowances and write-offs, which, depending on the amount of the increase, could have a material adverse effect on our   business ,  financial position and results of operations. To reduce GE s exposure to volatile
conditions in the financial markets and rebalance the relative size of its financial and industrial businesses, we decided to reduce the size of GE Capital, as measured by its ending net investment. While we are currently ahead of our reduction
targets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to timely execute on our reduction targets and failure to do so would result in greater exposure to financial markets than contemplated under our strategic funding plan or may result in the
need for us to make additional contributions to GE Capital.       The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect GE Capital.
      GE Capital has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial
services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose GE Capital to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, GE
Capital s credit risk may be increased when the collateral held cannot be realized upon sale or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to it. GE Capital also has exposure to
these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments held in its investment portfolios. GE Capital has policies relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties (as described in Note 22 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report), which are designed to limit credit and liquidity risk. There can be no assurance, however, that any losses
or impairments to the carrying value of financial assets would not materially and adversely affect GE Capital s business, financial position and results of operations.       The real estate markets in which GE Capital participates are highly uncertain, which may adversely affect GE Capital s business, financial position and results of operations.    
  GE Capital participates in the commercial real estate market in two ways: it provides financing for the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of various types of
properties, and it also acquires equity positions in various types of properties or real estate investments. The profitability of real estate investments is largely dependent upon the economic conditions in specific geographic markets in which the
properties are located and the perceived value of those markets at the time of sale. The level of transactions for real estate assets continue to remain at levels below historical norms in many of the markets in which GE Capital operates. Continued
high levels of unemployment, slowdown in business activity, excess inventory capacity and limited availability of credit may continue to adversely affect the value of real estate assets and collateral to real estate loans GE Capital holds. Under
current market and credit conditions, there can be no assurance as to the level of sales GE Capital will complete or the net sales proceeds it will realize. Also, occupancy rates and market rent levels may worsen, which may result in impairments to
the carrying value of equity investments or increases in the allowance for loan losses on commercial real estate loans.      GE Capital is also a
residential mortgage lender in certain geographic markets outside the United States that have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by declines in real estate values and home sale volumes, job losses, consumer bankruptcies and other
factors that may negatively impact the credit performance of our mortgage loans. Our allowance for loan losses on these mortgage loans is based on our analysis of current and historical delinquency and loan performance, as well as other management
assumptions that may be inaccurate predictions of credit performance in this environment. There can be no assurance that, in this environment, credit performance will not be materially worse than anticipated and, as a result, materially and
adversely affect GE Capital s business, financial position and results of operations.   
         (18)   

Table of Contents  

    Failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity,
competitive position and access to capital markets.       The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. This evaluation is based on a number
of factors, which include financial strength as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. As of December 31, 2010, GE and GECC s long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Standard and Poor s
Ratings Service (S P) was  AA+  (the second highest of 22 rating categories) with a stable outlook and from Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) was  Aa2  (the third highest of 21 rating categories) with
a stable outlook. As of December 31, 2010, GE, GE Capital Services and GE Capital s short-term credit rating from S P was  A-1+  (the highest rating category of six categories) and from Moody s was  P-1  (the
highest rating category of four categories). There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings and failure to do so could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, competitive position and access
to capital markets. Various debt and derivative instruments, guarantees and covenants would require posting additional capital or collateral in the event of a ratings downgrade, which, depending on the extent of the downgrade, could have a material
adverse effect on our liquidity and capital position.       Current conditions in the global economy and the major industries we serve also may materially
and adversely affect the business and results of operations of our non-financial businesses.       The business and operating results of our technology
infrastructure, energy infrastructure, home and business solutions and media businesses have been, and will continue to be, affected by worldwide economic conditions, including conditions in the air and rail transportation, energy generation,
healthcare, media, home building and other major industries we serve. As a result of slower global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures,
fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges affect the global economy, some of our customers have experienced deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or
potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services, including large infrastructure projects, and may not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. In particular, the airline industry is highly
cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and international economies. An extended period of slow growth in the U.S. or internationally that results in the loss of business and leisure traffic could
have a material adverse effect on our airline customers and the viability of their business. Service contract cancellations could affect our ability to fully recover our contract costs and estimated earnings. Further, our vendors may be experiencing
similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. If slower growth in the global economy continues for a significant period or there is significant deterioration in the global economy, our results of operations,
financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.       Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer
crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services.      Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and
targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training,
comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature
and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions,
which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.       We may face quality problems from operational
failures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations, and we are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue
growth.       We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services for both our and third-party products that incorporate or use
leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. While we have built extensive operational processes to ensure that the design, manufacture and servicing of such products meet the most rigorous quality standards, there can be no
assurance that we or our customers will not experience operational process failures that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Such operational failures or
  
         (19)   

Table of Contents  

quality issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. In addition, the markets in which we operate are subject to
technological change. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize
certain products to meet customer requirements.       Our intellectual property portfolio may not prevent competitors from independently developing
products and services similar to or duplicative to ours.       Our patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently
developing or selling products and services similar to or duplicative of ours, and there can be no assurance that the resources invested by us to protect our intellectual property will be sufficient or that our intellectual property portfolio will
adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of our technology. We could also face competition in some countries where we have not invested in an intellectual property portfolio. In addition, we may be the target of aggressive and
opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including non-practicing entities. Regardless of the merit of such claims, responding to infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. If GE is found to infringe any third-party
rights, we could be required to pay substantial damages or we could be enjoined from offering some of our products and services. Also, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or re-new from third parties the licenses we need in the
future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable terms.       Significant raw material shortages, supplier capacity
constraints, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues or price increases could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products.       Our reliance on third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers and service providers and commodity markets to secure raw materials, parts, components and sub-systems used in our products exposes us to volatility in
the prices and availability of these materials, parts, components, systems and services. A disruption in deliveries from our third-party suppliers, contract manufacturers or service providers, capacity constraints, production disruptions, price
increases, or decreased availability of raw materials or commodities, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. Quality issues experienced by third-party providers can also
adversely affect the quality and effectiveness of our products and services and result in liability and reputational harm.   
     Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments       Not applicable.         Item 2. Properties    
  Manufacturing operations are carried out at approximately 219 manufacturing plants located in 38 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at approximately
230 manufacturing plants located in 40 other countries.   
         (20)   

Table of Contents  

      Item 3. Legal Proceedings    
  As previously reported, the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) are conducting an industry-wide
investigation of marketing and sales of guaranteed investment contracts, and other financial instruments, to municipalities. In connection with this investigation, two subsidiaries of General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) have received
subpoenas and requests for information in connection with the investigation: GE Funding CMS (Trinity Funding Co.) and GE Funding Capital Market Services, Inc. (GE FCMS). GECC has cooperated and continues to cooperate fully with the SEC and DOJ in
this matter. In July 2008, GE FCMS received a  Wells notice  advising that the SEC staff was considering recommending that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action or institute an administrative proceeding in connection with the bidding for
various financial instruments associated with municipal securities by certain former employees of GE FCMS. GE FCMS is one of several industry participants that received Wells notices during 2008. GE FCMS disagrees with the SEC staff regarding this
recommendation and has had discussions with the staff, including discussions concerning a potential resolution of the matter. GE FCMS intends to continue those discussions and understands that it will have the opportunity to address any
disagreements with the SEC staff with respect to its recommendation through the Wells process with the full Commission. Separately, GE FCMS and Trinity Funding Co. also received subpoenas from the Attorneys General of the State of Connecticut and
Florida on behalf of a working group of State Attorneys General in June 2008, and a Civil Investigative Demand from the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in October 2010. GE FCMS and Trinity Funding Co. are cooperating with those
investigations.      As previously reported, in March 2008, GE FCMS and Trinity Funding Co. were served with a federal class action complaint asserting
antitrust violations. This action was combined with other related actions in a multidistrict litigation proceeding in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The claims against GE FCMS and Trinity Funding Co. in the
federal class action complaint and the similar claims asserted in the other related actions were dismissed without prejudice. In June 2010, one existing complaint was amended to bring claims against GE FCMS asserting antitrust violations. Since
September 2010, four additional complaints have been brought against GE FCMS, Trinity Funding Co., Trinity Plus Funding Co. LLC (Trinity Plus), and GECC asserting antitrust violations. In January 2011, an additional action was brought against
Trinity Plus and FGIC Capital Market Services, Inc. (the predecessor of GE FCMS) asserting antitrust violations. Additionally, in February 2011, plaintiffs in eleven complaints that were dismissed in April 2010 (as well as five additional complaints
that had not previously named Trinity Funding Co. or GE FCMS) were granted leave to file amended complaints against Trinity Funding Co., Trinity Plus, GE FCMS, and GECC.      As previously reported, in September 2010, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York granted our motion to dismiss in its entirety with prejudice a purported class action under the
federal securities laws naming us as defendant, as well as our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. In this action, the plaintiffs alleged that during a conference call with analysts on September 25, 2008, defendants made false
and misleading statements concerning (i) the state of GE s funding, cash flows, and liquidity and (ii) the question of issuing additional equity, which caused economic loss to those shareholders who purchased GE stock between
September 25, 2008 and October 2, 2008, when we announced the pricing of a common stock offering. Plaintiffs have filed notice of appeal.      As
previously reported, in July 2010, the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut granted our motion to dismiss in their entirety two purported class actions under the federal securities laws naming us, our chief executive officer,
and our chief financial officer as defendants. These two actions, which we previously reported, alleged that we and our chief executive officer made false and misleading statements that artificially inflated our stock price between March 12,
2008 and April 10, 2008, when we announced that our results for the first quarter of 2008 would not meet our previous guidance and also lowered our full year guidance for 2008. Plaintiffs have filed notice of appeal.   
         (21)   

Table of Contents  

   As previously reported, in March and April 2009, shareholders filed purported class actions under the federal
securities laws in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York naming as defendants GE, a number of GE officers (including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer) and our directors. The complaints, which
have now been consolidated, seek unspecified damages based on allegations related to statements regarding the GE dividend and projected losses and earnings for GECC in 2009. Our motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint was filed in November
2009, is now fully briefed and, following an oral argument held in November 2010, is currently under consideration by the Court. A shareholder derivative action was filed in federal court in Connecticut in May 2009 making essentially the same
allegations as the New York class actions. GE s motion to transfer the derivative action to the Southern District of New York as a related case was granted in February 2010, and our motion to dismiss is currently pending. The defendants intend
to defend themselves vigorously.      As previously reported, in March 2010, a shareholder derivative action was filed in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of New York naming as defendants GE, a number of GE officers (including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer) and our directors. The complaint principally alleges breaches of fiduciary duty and other
causes of action related to the GE dividend and SEC matter which GE resolved in August 2009 and alleged mismanagement of our financial services businesses. In May 2010, an additional derivative action also claiming mismanagement of our financial
services businesses was filed in the United States District Court of New York naming as defendants GE and a number of present and former GE officers (including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer). The defendants have filed
motions to dismiss the derivative cases and intend to defend themselves vigorously.      As previously reported, and in compliance with SEC requirements to
disclose environmental proceedings potentially involving monetary sanctions of $100,000 or greater, in June 2008, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a notice of violation and in January 2011 filed a complaint alleging non-compliance
with the Clean Air Act at a power cogeneration plant in Homer City, PA. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection, the New York Attorney General s Office and the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection have intervened in
the EPA case. The plant is operated exclusively by EME Homer City Generation L.P., and is owned and leased to EME Homer City Generation L.P. by subsidiaries of GECC and one other entity. The complaints do not indicate a specific penalty amount but
makes reference to statutory fines. We believe that we have meritorious defenses and that EME Homer City Generation L.P. is obligated to indemnify GECC s subsidiaries and pay all costs associated with this matter.   
     Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.       Not applicable.   
         (22)   

Table of Contents  

      Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       With respect to  Market Information,  in the United States, GE common stock is listed on the New
York Stock Exchange (its principal market). GE common stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange and on Euronext Paris. Trading prices, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Composite Transactions Tape, and dividend information
follow:       
    As of January 31, 2011, there were approximately 578,000
shareowner accounts of record.      During the fourth quarter of 2010, we purchased shares of our common stock as follows.   

(a)  
  Information is presented on a fiscal calendar basis, consistent with our quarterly financial reporting.     

(b)  
  This category includes 690 thousand shares repurchased from our various benefit plans, primarily the GE Savings and Security Program (the S SP). Through the S SP, a
defined contribution plan with Internal Revenue Service Code 401(k) features, we repurchase shares resulting from changes in investment options by plan participants.     

(c)  
  This balance represents the number of shares that were repurchased through the 2007 GE Share Repurchase Program (the Program) under which we are authorized to repurchase up to
$15 billion of our common stock through 2010. The Program is flexible and shares are acquired with a combination of borrowings and free cash flow from the public markets and other sources, including GE Stock Direct, a stock purchase plan that is
available to the public. Effective September 25, 2008, we suspended the Program for purchases other than from GE Stock Direct. Effective July 23, 2010, we extended the Program, which would have otherwise expired on December 31, 2010,
through 2013, and we resumed repurchases under the Program in the third quarter of 2010.     
         (23)   

Table of Contents  

   For information regarding compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance, see Note 16 to
the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (24)   

Table of Contents  

    Five-year financial performance graph: 2006-2010        Comparison of five-year cumulative return among GE, S P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average       The annual
changes for the five-year period shown in the graph on this page are based on the assumption that $100 had been invested in GE stock, the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index (S P 500) and the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) on
December 31, 2005, and that all quarterly dividends were reinvested. The total cumulative dollar returns shown on the graph represent the value that such investments would have had on December 31, 2010.   

(25)   

Table of Contents  

      Item 6. Selected Financial Data.    
  The following table provides key information for Consolidated, GE and GECS.       
    Transactions between GE and GECS have been eliminated from the consolidated information.   

(b)  
  Indicates terms are defined in the Glossary.         
 
         (26)   

Table of Contents  

      Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations        Operations       Our consolidated
financial statements combine the industrial manufacturing, services and media businesses of General Electric Company (GE) with the financial services businesses of General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services).   
  In the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our
financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered  non-GAAP financial measures  under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. For
such measures, we have provided supplemental explanations and reconciliations in the Supplemental Information section.      We present Management s
Discussion of Operations in five parts: Overview of Our Earnings from 2008 through 2010, Global Risk Management, Segment Operations, Geographic Operations and Environmental Matters. Unless otherwise indicated, we refer to captions such as revenues
and earnings from continuing operations attributable to the company simply as  revenues  and  earnings  throughout this Management s Discussion and Analysis. Similarly, discussion of other matters in our consolidated
financial statements relates to continuing operations unless otherwise indicated.      Effective January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better
align our Consumer   Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization, we created a new segment called Home   Business Solutions that includes the Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous
Consumer   Industrial segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business of our previous Enterprise Solutions business (formerly within our Technology Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial
business of our previous Consumer   Industrial segment and the Sensing   Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy businesses of our previous Enterprise Solutions business are now part of the Energy business within the Energy
Infrastructure segment. The Security business of Enterprise Solutions was reported in Corporate Items and Eliminations until its sale in February 2010. Also, effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and
includes all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC). In addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), is included in Commercial Lending and
Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, is included in CLL.      Effective January 1, 2011, we reorganized
the Technology Infrastructure segment into three segments   Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. The results of the Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation businesses are unaffected by this reorganization and we will begin reporting these
as separate segments beginning with our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011. Results for 2010 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2010 and do not reflect the January
2011 reorganization.      Beginning in 2011, we will supplement our GAAP net earnings and earnings per share (EPS) reporting by also reporting an operating
earnings and EPS measure (non-GAAP). Operating earnings and EPS will include service cost and plan amendment amortization for our principal pension plans as these costs represent expenses associated with employee benefits earned. Operating earnings
and EPS will exclude non-operating pension cost/income such as interest cost, expected return on plans assets and non-cash amortization of actuarial gains and losses. We believe that this reporting will provide better transparency to the employee
benefit costs of our principal pension plans and Company operating results.   
         (27)   

Table of Contents  

    Overview of Our Earnings from 2008 through 2010       Earnings from continuing operations attributable to the Company increased 15% in 2010 after decreasing 39% in 2009, reflecting the stabilization of overall economic conditions during 2010, following the challenging
conditions of the last two years and the effect on both our industrial and financial services businesses. We believe that we are seeing signs of stabilization in the global economy, including in financial services, as GECS earnings from continuing
operations attributable to the Company increased 138% in 2010 compared with a decrease of 83% in 2009. Net earnings attributable to the Company increased 6% in 2010 after decreasing 37% in 2009, as losses from discontinued operations in 2010
partially offset the 15% increase in earnings from continuing operations. We have a strong backlog entering 2011 and expect global economic conditions to continue to improve through 2012.      Energy Infrastructure (25% and 33% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) revenues decreased 8% in 2010 and 6% in 2009 as the worldwide demand for new sources of power, such as
wind and thermal, declined with the overall economic conditions. Segment profit increased 2% in 2010 and 9% in 2009 primarily on higher prices and lower material and other costs. We continue to invest in market-leading technology and services at
Energy and Oil   Gas.      Technology Infrastructure (24% and 33% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment profit, respectively)
revenues and segment profit fell 2% and 7%, respectively, in 2010 and 7% and 9%, respectively, in 2009. We continue to invest in market-leading technologies and services at Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. Aviation revenues and earnings
trended down over this period on lower equipment sales and services and the costs of investment in new product launches, coupled with the effects of the challenging global economic environment. Healthcare revenues and earnings improved in 2010 on
higher equipment sales and services after trending down in 2009 due to generally weak global economic conditions and uncertainty in the healthcare markets. Transportation revenues and earnings declined 12% and 33%, respectively, in 2010, and 24% and
51%, respectively, in 2009 as the weakened economy has driven overall reductions in U.S. freight traffic and we updated our estimates of long-term product service costs in our maintenance service agreements.   
  NBC Universal (NBCU) (10% and 12% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment company.
NBCU revenues increased 9% in 2010 after decreasing 9% in 2009 and segment profit was flat in 2010 after decreasing 28% in 2009. The cable business continues to grow and become more profitable, the television business had mixed performance, and our
parks and film businesses have improved as the U.S. economy has stabilized. On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which consists of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation s cable
networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments. In connection with the transaction, we received $6.2 billion in cash and a 49% interest in the newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC, which we
will account for under the equity method.      GE Capital (34% and 20% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment profit, respectively) net
earnings increased to $3.3 billion in 2010 due to stabilization in the overall economic environment after declining to $1.5 billion in 2009 from the effects of the challenging economic environment and credit markets. Over the last several years, we
tightened underwriting standards, shifted teams from origination to collection and maintained a proactive risk management focus. This, along with recent increased stability in the financial markets, contributed to lower losses and a return to
pre-tax earnings and a significant increase in segment profit in 2010. We also reduced our ending net investment (ENI), excluding cash and equivalents from $526 billion at January 1, 2010 to $477 billion at December 31, 2010. The current
credit cycle has begun to show signs of stabilization and we expect further signs of stabilization as we enter 2011. Our focus is to reposition General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) as a diversely funded and smaller, more focused finance
company with strong positions in several mid-market, corporate and consumer financing segments.   
         (28)   

Table of Contents  

   Home   Business Solutions (6% and 2% of consolidated three-year revenues and total segment profit,
respectively) revenues have increased 2% in 2010 after declining 17% in 2009. Home   Business Solutions continues to reposition its business by eliminating capacity in its incandescent lighting manufacturing sites and investing in energy
efficient product manufacturing in locations such as Louisville, Kentucky and Bloomington, Indiana. Segment profit increased 24% in 2010 primarily as a result of the effects of productivity reflecting these cost reduction efforts and increased other
income, partially offset by lower prices. Segment profit increased 1% in 2009 on higher prices and lower material costs.      Overall, acquisitions
contributed $0.3 billion, $2.9 billion and $7.4 billion to consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excluding the effects of acquisition gains following our adoption of an amendment to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810,  Consolidation . Our consolidated net earnings included approximately $0.1 billion, $0.5 billion and $0.8 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, from acquired businesses. We integrate
acquisitions as quickly as possible. Only revenues and earnings from the date we complete the acquisition through the end of the fourth following quarter are attributed to such businesses. Dispositions also affected our ongoing results through lower
revenues of $3.0 billion in 2010, lower revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009 and higher revenues of $0.1 billion in 2008. The effects of dispositions on net earnings were increases of $0.1 billion, $0.6 billion and $0.4 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.      Significant matters relating to our Statement of Earnings are explained below.       Discontinued Operations.  Consistent with our goal of reducing GECC ENI and focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability
to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk, in December 2010, we sold our Central American bank and card business, BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC). In September 2007, we committed to a plan to sell
our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not permit us to earn an acceptable return. During 2008, we completed the sale
of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. Discontinued operations also includes our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment
finance business (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico. All of these businesses were previously reported in the GE Capital segment.      We reported the
businesses described above as discontinued operations for all periods presented. For further information about discontinued operations, see  Segment Operations   Discontinued Operations  in this Item and Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       We declared $5.2
billion in dividends in 2010.  Common per-share dividends of $0.46 were down 25% from 2009, following a 51% decrease from the preceding year. In February 2009, we announced the reduction of the quarterly GE stock dividend by 68% from $0.31 per
share to $0.10 per share, effective with the dividend approved by the Board in June 2009, which was paid in the third quarter of 2009. As a result of strong cash generation, recovery of GE Capital and solid underlying performance in our industrial
businesses during 2010, in July 2010, our Board of Directors approved a 20% increase in our regular quarterly dividend from $0.10 per share to $0.12 per share and in December 2010, approved an additional 17% increase from $0.12 per share to $0.14
per share. On February 11, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of $0.14 per share of common stock, which is payable April 25, 2011, to shareowners of record at close of business on February 28, 2011. In
2010 and 2009, we declared $0.3 billion in preferred stock dividends.      Except as otherwise noted, the analysis in the remainder of this section presents
the results of GE (with GECS included on a one-line basis) and GECS. See the Segment Operations section for a more detailed discussion of the businesses within GE and GECS.       GE sales of product services  were $34.7 billion in 2010, a decrease of 1% compared with 2009. Decreases in product services at Technology Infrastructure were partially offset by increases at Energy
Infrastructure and Home   Business Solutions. Operating profit from product services was $10.0 billion in 2010, about flat compared with 2009.   
         (29)   

Table of Contents  

    Postretirement benefit plans  costs were $3.0 billion, $2.6 billion and $2.2 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Costs increased in 2010 primarily due to the amortization of 2008 investment losses and the effects of lower discount rates (principal pension plans discount rate decreased from 6.11% at December 31, 2008 to 5.78% at
December 31, 2009), partially offset by lower early retirement costs.      Costs increased in 2009 primarily because the effects of lower discount
rates (principal pension plans discount rate decreased from 6.34% at December 31, 2007 to 6.11% at December 31, 2008) and increases in early retirements resulting from restructuring activities and contractual requirements, partially offset
by amortization of prior years  investment gains and benefits from new healthcare supplier contracts.      Our discount rate for our principal pension
plans at December 31, 2010 was 5.28%, which reflected current interest rates. Considering the current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of assets in which our plans are invested, we
have assumed that long-term returns on our principal pension plan assets will be 8.0% for cost recognition in 2011, a reduction from the 8.5% we assumed in 2010, 2009 and 2008. GAAP provides recognition of differences between assumed and actual
returns over a period no longer than the average future service of employees. See the Critical Accounting Estimates section for additional information.   
  We expect the costs of our postretirement benefits to increase in 2011 by approximately $1.1 billion as compared to 2010, primarily because of the effects of
additional 2008 investment loss amortization and lower discount rates.      Pension expense for our principal pension plans on a GAAP basis was $1.1
billion, $0.5 billion and $0.2 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Operating pension costs (non-GAAP) for these plans were $1.4 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
  The GE Pension Plan was underfunded by $2.8 billion at the end of 2010 as compared to $2.2 billion at December 31, 2009. The GE Supplementary Pension Plan,
which is an unfunded plan, had projected benefit obligations of $4.4 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in underfunding from year-end 2009 was primarily attributable to the effects of lower
discount rates, partially offset by an increase in GE Pension Plan assets. Our principal pension plans discount rate decreased from 5.78% at December 31, 2009 to 5.28% at December 31, 2010, which increased the pension benefit obligation at
year-end 2010 by approximately $2.9 billion. Our GE Pension Plan assets increased from $42.1 billion at the end of 2009 to $44.8 billion at December 31, 2010, driven by a 13.5% increase in investment values during the year, partially offset by
benefit payments. Assets of the GE Pension Plan are held in trust, solely for the benefit of Plan participants, and are not available for general company operations.      On an Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) basis, the GE Pension Plan was 98% funded at January 1, 2011. We will not make any contributions to the GE Pension Plan in 2011. Funding requirements are
determined as prescribed by ERISA and for GE, are based on the Plan s funded status as of the beginning of the previous year and future contributions may vary based on actual plan results. Assuming our 2011 actual experience is consistent with
our current benefit assumptions (e.g., expected return on assets and interest rates), we will be required to make about $1.4 billion in contributions to the GE Pension Plan in 2012.      At December 31, 2010, the fair value of assets for our other pension plans was $2.1 billion less than the respective projected benefit obligations. The comparable amount at December 31, 2009, was $2.7
billion. We expect to contribute $0.7 billion to our other pension plans in 2011, compared with actual contributions of $0.6 billion and $0.7 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively. We fund our retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. The
unfunded liability for our principal retiree health and life plans was $10.9 billion and $11.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This decrease was primarily attributable to lower healthcare trends and the effects of
healthcare reform provisions on our Medicare-approved prescription drug plan, partially offset by lower discount rates (retiree health and life plans discount rate decreased from 5.67% at December 31, 2009 to 5.15% at December 31, 2010).
We expect to contribute $0.7 billion to these plans in 2011 compared with actual contributions of $0.6 billion in both 2010 and 2009.   
         (30)   

Table of Contents  

   The funded status of our postretirement benefits plans and future effects on operating results depend on economic
conditions and investment performance. For additional information about funded status, components of earnings effects and actuarial assumptions, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       GE other costs and expenses  are selling, general and administrative expenses. These costs
were 16.3%, 14.3% and 12.9% of total GE sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in 2010 is primarily due to increased selling expenses to support global growth and higher pension costs, partially offset by lower restructuring and
other charges.       Interest on borrowings and other financial charges  amounted to $16.0 billion, $18.3 billion and $25.8 billion in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Substantially all of our borrowings are in financial services, where interest expense was $15.0 billion, $17.5 billion and $24.7 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. GECS average borrowings declined from 2009 to 2010 and
from 2008 to 2009, in line with changes in average GECS assets. Interest rates have decreased over the three-year period attributable to declining global benchmark interest rates, partially offset by higher average credit spreads. GECS average
borrowings were $480.4 billion, $497.6 billion and $521.2 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The GECS average composite effective interest rate was 3.1% in 2010, 3.5% in 2009 and 4.7% in 2008. In 2010, GECS average assets of $616.9
billion were 3% lower than in 2009, which in turn were 4% lower than in 2008. See the Liquidity and Borrowings section for a discussion of liquidity, borrowings and interest rate risk management.   
   Income taxes  have a significant effect on our net earnings. As a global commercial enterprise, our tax rates are affected by many factors, including our
global mix of earnings, the extent to which those global earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the United States, legislation, acquisitions, dispositions and tax characteristics of our income. Our tax returns are routinely audited and
settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions.      GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. This
enables GE to use GECS tax deductions and credits to reduce the tax that otherwise would have been payable by GE.      Our consolidated income tax rate is
lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of benefits from lower-taxed global operations, including the use of global funding structures, and our 2009 and 2008 decisions to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S. There
is a benefit from global operations as non-U.S. income is subject to local country tax rates that are significantly below the 35% U.S. statutory rate. These non-U.S. earnings have been indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and are not subject to
current U.S. income tax. The rate of tax on our indefinitely reinvested non-U.S. earnings is below the 35% U.S. statutory rate because we have significant business operations subject to tax in countries where the tax on that income is lower than the
U.S. statutory rate and because GE funds the majority of its non-U.S. operations through foreign companies that are subject to low foreign taxes.   
  Income taxes (benefit) on consolidated earnings from continuing operations were 7.4% in 2010 compared with (11.5)% in 2009 and 5.6% in 2008. We expect our
consolidated effective tax rate to increase in 2011 in part because we expect a high effective tax rate on the pre-tax gain on the NBCU transaction with Comcast (more than $3 billion) discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      We expect our ability to benefit from non-U.S.
income taxed at less than the U.S. rate to continue, subject to changes of U.S. or foreign law, including, as discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data  of this Form 10-K Report, the possible expiration of the U.S. tax law provision deferring tax on active financial services income. In addition, since this benefit depends on management s intention to indefinitely reinvest amounts
outside the U.S., our tax provision will increase to the extent we no longer indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings.   
         (31)   

Table of Contents  

   Our benefits from lower taxed global operations declined to $2.8 billion in 2010 from $4.0 billion in 2009 principally
because of lower earnings in our operations subject to tax in countries where the tax on that income is lower than the U.S. statutory rate, and from losses for which there was not a full tax benefit. These decreases also reflected management s
decision in 2009 to indefinitely reinvest prior year earnings outside the U.S. The benefit from lower taxed global operations increased in 2010 by $0.4 billion due to audit resolutions. To the extent global interest rates and non-U.S. operating
income increase we would expect tax benefits to increase, subject to management s intention to indefinitely reinvest those earnings.      Our benefit
from lower taxed global operations included the effect of the lower foreign tax rate on our indefinitely reinvested non-U.S. earnings which provided a tax benefit of $2.0 billion in 2010 and $3.0 billion in 2009. The tax benefit from non-U.S. income
taxed at a local country rather than the U.S. statutory tax rate is reported in the effective tax rate reconciliation in the line  Tax on global earnings including exports.       Our benefits from lower taxed global operations declined to $4.0 billion in 2009 from $5.1 billion in 2008 (including in each year a benefit from the decision to indefinitely reinvest prior year earnings outside
the U.S.) principally because of lower earnings in our operations subject to tax in countries where the tax on that income is lower than the U.S. statutory rate. These decreases were partially offset by management s decision in 2009 to
indefinitely reinvest prior year earnings outside the U.S. that was larger than the 2008 decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S.      Our consolidated income tax rate increased from 2009 to 2010 primarily because of an increase during 2010 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This decreased the relative effect of our tax benefits from
lower-taxed global operations. In addition, the consolidated income tax rate increased from 2009 to 2010 due to the decrease, discussed above, in the benefit from lower-taxed global operations. These effects were partially offset by an increase in
the benefit from audit resolutions, primarily a decrease in the balance of our unrecognized tax benefits from the completion of our 2003-2005 audit with the IRS.      Cash income taxes paid in 2010 were $2.7 billion, reflecting the effects of changes to temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax bases.   
  Our consolidated income tax rate decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of a reduction during 2009 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions. This increased
the relative effect of our tax benefits from lower-taxed global operations, including the decision, discussed below, to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S. These effects were partially offset by a decrease from 2008 to 2009 in
the benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global operations.      A more detailed analysis of differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate and the
consolidated rate, as well as other information about our income tax provisions, is provided in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report. The nature of business activities and associated income taxes differ for GE and for GECS and a separate analysis of each is presented in the paragraphs that follow.      Because GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings, the GE effective tax rate is best analyzed in relation to GE earnings excluding GECS. GE pre-tax earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECS
earnings from continuing operations, were $12.0 billion, $12.6 billion and $14.2 billion for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. On this basis, GE s effective tax rate was 16.8% in 2010, 21.8% in 2009 and 24.2% in 2008.   
         (32)   

Table of Contents  

   Resolution of audit matters reduced the GE effective tax rate throughout this period. The effects of such resolutions
are included in the following captions in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
   
    The GE effective tax rate decreased from 2009 to 2010 primarily because of the 4.0 percentage point increase in the benefit from audit
resolutions shown above.      The GE effective tax rate decreased from 2008 to 2009 primarily because of the 3.6 percentage point increase in the benefit
from lower-taxed earnings from global operations, excluding audit resolutions. The 2008 GE rate reflects the benefit of lower-taxed earnings from global operations.      The GECS effective income tax rate is lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of benefits from lower-taxed global operations, including the use of global funding structures. There is a benefit from
global operations as non-U.S. income is subject to local country tax rates that are significantly below the 35% U.S. statutory rate. These non-U.S. earnings have been indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and are not subject to current U.S.
income tax. The rate of tax on our indefinitely reinvested non-U.S. earnings is below the 35% U.S. statutory rate because we have significant business operations subject to tax in countries where the tax on that income is lower than the U.S.
statutory rate and because GECS funds the majority of its non-U.S. operations through foreign companies that are subject to low foreign taxes.      We
expect our ability to benefit from non-U.S. income taxed at less than the U.S. rate to continue subject to changes of U.S. or foreign law, including, as discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, the possible expiration of the U.S. tax law provision deferring tax on active financial services income. In addition, since this benefit depends on management s
intention to indefinitely reinvest amounts outside the U.S., our tax provision will increase to the extent we no longer indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings.      As noted above, GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. This enables GE to use GECS tax deductions and credits to reduce the tax that otherwise would have been payable by GE. The GECS
effective tax rate for each period reflects the benefit of these tax reductions in the consolidated return. GE makes cash payments to GECS for these tax reductions at the time GE s tax payments are due. The effect of GECS on the amount of the
consolidated tax liability from the formation of the NBCU joint venture will be settled in cash when it otherwise would have reduced the liability of the group absent the tax on joint venture formation.   
         (33)   

Table of Contents  

   The GECS effective tax rate was (44.8)% in 2010, compared with 152.0% in 2009 and (41.4)% in 2008. Comparing a tax
benefit to pre-tax income resulted in a negative tax rate in 2010 and 2008. Comparing a tax benefit to pre-tax loss results in the positive tax rate in 2009. The GECS tax benefit of $3.9 billion in 2009 decreased by $2.9 billion to $1.0 billion in
2010. The lower 2010 tax benefit resulted in large part from the change from a pre-tax loss in 2009 to pre-tax income in 2010 which increased pre-tax income $4.7 billion and decreased the benefit ($1.7 billion), the non-repeat of the one-time
benefit related to the 2009 decision (discussed below) to indefinitely reinvest undistributed prior year non-U.S. earnings ($0.7 billion), and a decrease in lower-taxed global operations in 2010 as compared to 2009 ($0.6 billion) caused in part by
an increase in losses for which there was not a full tax benefit, including an increase in the valuation allowance associated with the deferred tax asset related to the 2008 loss on the sale of GE Money Japan ($0.2 billion). These lower benefits
were partially offset by the benefit from resolution of the 2003-2005 IRS audit ($0.3 billion), which is reported in the caption  All other   net  in the effective tax rate reconciliation in Note 14 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      The GECS tax benefit of $2.3
billion in 2008 increased by $1.6 billion to $3.9 billion in 2009. The higher benefit resulted in large part from the change from pre-tax income in 2008 to a pre-tax loss in 2009 which decreased pre-tax income $8.2 billion and increased the benefit
($2.9 billion) and the one-time benefit related to the 2009 decision (discussed below) to indefinitely reinvest undistributed prior-year non-U.S. earnings that was larger than the 2008 decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year non-U.S. earnings
($0.4 billion). These increases in benefits were significantly offset by a decrease in 2009 benefits from lower-taxed global operations as compared to 2008 ($1.9 billion), substantially as a result of the impact in 2009 of lower interest rates and
foreign exchange on the funding of our non-U.S. operations through companies that are subject to a low rate of tax.      During 2009, following the change
in GECS external credit ratings, funding actions taken and our continued review of our operations, liquidity and funding, we determined that undistributed prior-year earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of GECS, on which we had previously provided
deferred U.S. taxes, would be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. This change increased the amount of prior-year earnings indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $2 billion, resulting in an income tax benefit of $0.7 billion
in 2009.      The GECS 2008 rate reflects a reduction during 2008 of income in higher-taxed jurisdictions which increased the relative effect of tax
benefits from lower-taxed global operations on the tax rate.       Global Risk Management       A disciplined approach to risk is important in a diversified organization like ours in order to ensure that we are executing according to our strategic objectives and that we only accept risk for which we are
adequately compensated. We evaluate risk at the individual transaction level, and evaluate aggregated risk at the customer, industry, geographic and collateral-type levels, where appropriate.      Risk assessment and risk management are the responsibility of management. The GE Board of Directors (Board) has overall responsibility for risk oversight with a focus on the most significant risks facing the
company, including strategic, operational and reputational risks. At the end of each year, management and the Board jointly develop a list of major risks that GE plans to prioritize in the next year. Throughout the year, the Board and the committees
to which it has delegated responsibility dedicate a portion of their meetings to review and discuss specific risk topics in greater detail. Strategic, operational and reputational risks are presented and discussed in the context of the CEO s
report on operations to the Board at regularly scheduled Board meetings and at presentations to the Board and its committees by the vice chairmen, chief risk officer, general counsel and other officers. The Board has delegated responsibility for the
oversight of specific risks to Board committees as follows:   
         (34)   

Table of Contents  

In February 2011, the Board created a Risk Committee. This Committee oversees GE s key risks, including strategic, operational, market, liquidity, funding,
credit and product risk and the guidelines, policies and processes for monitoring and mitigating such risks. Starting in March 2011, as part of its overall risk oversight responsibilities for GE, the Risk Committee will also oversee risks related to
GECS (including GECC), which previously was subject to direct Audit Committee oversight. The Risk Committee is expected to meet at least four times a year.      

The Audit Committee oversees GE s and GE Capital s policies and processes relating to the financial statements, the financial reporting process,
compliance and auditing. The Audit Committee receives an annual risk update, which focuses on the key risks affecting GE as well as reporting on the company s risk assessment and risk management guidelines, policies and processes. In addition
to monitoring ongoing compliance issues and matters, the Audit Committee also annually conducts an assessment of compliance issues and programs.          

The Public Responsibilities Committee oversees risks related to GE s public policy initiatives, the environment and similar
matters.         

The Management Development and Compensation Committee oversees the risks associated with management resources, structure, succession planning, management
development and selection processes, including evaluating the effect compensation structure may have on risk decisions.         

The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee oversees risks related to the company s governance structure and processes and risks arising from related
person transactions.         The GE Board s risk oversight process builds upon management s risk assessment and mitigation
processes, which include standardized reviews of long-term strategic and operational planning; executive development and evaluation; code of conduct compliance under the Company s The Spirit   The Letter; regulatory compliance; health,
safety and environmental compliance; financial reporting and controllership; and information technology and security. GE s chief risk officer (CRO) is responsible for overseeing and coordinating risk assessment and mitigation on an
enterprise-wide basis. The CRO leads the Corporate Risk Function and is responsible for the identification of key business risks, providing for appropriate management of these risks within stated limits, and enforcement through policies and
procedures. Management has two committees to further assist it in assessing and mitigating risk. The Policy Compliance Review Board meets between 10 and 14 times a year, is chaired by the company s general counsel and includes the chief
financial officer and other senior level functional leaders. It has principal responsibility for monitoring compliance matters across the company. The Corporate Risk Committee (CRC) meets at least four times a year, is chaired by the CRO and
comprises the Chairman and CEO and other senior level business and functional leaders. It has principal responsibility for evaluating and addressing risks escalated to the CRO and Corporate Risk Function.   
  GE s Corporate Risk Function leverages the risk infrastructures in each of our businesses, which have adopted an approach that corresponds to the
company s overall risk policies, guidelines and review mechanisms. In 2010, we augmented the risk infrastructure by formalizing enterprise risk ownership at the business unit level and within our corporate functions. Our risk infrastructure is
designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks within each of the following categories:       

Strategic.  Strategic risk relates to the company s future business plans and strategies, including the risks associated with the markets and
industries in which we operate, demand for our products and services, competitive threats, technology and product innovation, mergers and acquisitions and public policy.     

Operational.  Operational risk relates to the effectiveness of our people, integrity of our internal systems and processes, as well as external events that
affect the operation of our businesses. It includes product life cycle and execution, product performance, information management and data security, business disruption, human resources and reputation.      
         (35)   

Table of Contents  

Financial.  Financial risk relates to our ability to meet financial obligations and mitigate credit risk, liquidity risk and exposure to broad market
risks, including volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and commodity prices. Liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to accommodate liability maturities, fund asset growth and meet contractual obligations through access
to funding at reasonable market rates and credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from a customer or counterparty failure to meet its contractual obligations. We face credit risk in our industrial businesses, as well as in our GE Capital
investing, lending and leasing activities and derivative financial instruments activities.          

Legal and Compliance.  Legal and compliance risk relates to changes in the government and regulatory environment, compliance requirements with policies and
procedures, including those relating to financial reporting, environmental health and safety, and intellectual property risks. Government and regulatory risk is the risk that the government or regulatory actions will impose additional cost on us or
cause us to have to change our business models or practices.         Risks identified through our risk management processes are prioritized
and, depending on the probability and severity of the risk, escalated to the CRO. The CRO, in coordination with the CRC, assigns responsibility for the risks to the business or functional leader most suited to manage the risk. Assigned owners are
required to continually monitor, evaluate and report on risks for which they bear responsibility. Enterprise risk leaders within each business and corporate function are responsible to present to the CRO and CRC risk assessments and key risks at
least annually. We have general response strategies for managing risks, which categorize risks according to whether the company will avoid, transfer, reduce or accept the risk. These response strategies are tailored to ensure that risks are within
acceptable GE Board tolerance levels.      Depending on the nature of the risk involved and the particular business or function affected, we use a wide
variety of risk mitigation strategies, including hedging, delegation of authorities, operating reviews, insurance, standardized processes and strategic planning reviews. As a matter of policy, we generally hedge the risk of fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Our service businesses employ a comprehensive tollgate process leading up to and through the execution of a contractual service agreement to mitigate legal, financial and operational
risks. Furthermore, we centrally manage some risks by purchasing insurance, the amount of which is determined by balancing the level of risk retained or assumed with the cost of transferring risk to others. We manage the risk of fluctuations in
economic activity and customer demand by monitoring industry dynamics and responding accordingly, including by adjusting capacity, implementing cost reductions and engaging in mergers, acquisitions and dispositions.   
   GE Capital Risk Management and Oversight       GE Capital has
developed a robust risk infrastructure and processes to manage risks related to its businesses and the GE Corporate Risk Function relies upon them in fulfillment of its mission. As discussed above, starting in March 2011, the GE Risk Committee will
oversee GE Capital s risk assessment and management processes, which was previously an Audit Committee responsibility.      At the GE Capital level,
the GECS Board of Directors oversees the GE Capital risk management process, and approves all significant acquisitions and dispositions as well as significant borrowings and investments. All participants in the GE Capital risk management process
must comply with approval limits established by the GECS Board.      GE Capital s risk management approach rests upon three major tenets: a broad
spread of risk based on managed exposure limits; senior, secured commercial financings; and a hold to maturity model with transactions underwritten to  on-book  standards. Dedicated risk professionals across the businesses include
underwriters, portfolio managers, collectors, environmental and engineering specialists, and specialized asset managers who evaluate leased asset residuals and remarket off-lease equipment. The senior risk officers have, on average, over 25 years of
experience.   
         (36)   

Table of Contents  

   GE Capital manages risk categories identified in GE Capital s business environment, which if materialized, could
prevent GE Capital from achieving its risk objectives and/or result in losses. These risks are defined as GE Capital s Enterprise Risk Universe, which includes the following risks: strategic (including earnings and capital), reputational,
liquidity, credit, market, operations (including financial, information technology and legal), and compliance.      GE Capital s Enterprise Risk
Management Committee (ERMC), which is comprised of the most senior leaders in GE Capital as well as the GE CRO, oversees the establishment of appropriate risk systems, including policies, procedures, and management committees that support risk
controls to ensure the enterprise risks are effectively identified, measured, monitored, and controlled.      The ERMC also oversees the development of GE
Capital s overall risk appetite. The risk appetite is the amount of risk that GE Capital is willing and able to bear, expressed as the combination of the enterprise risk objectives and risk limits. GE Capital s risk appetite is determined
relative to its desired risk objectives, including, but not limited to, stand-alone credit ratings, capital levels, liquidity management, regulatory assessments, earnings, dividends and compliance. GE Capital determines its risk appetite through
consideration of portfolio analytics, including stress testing and economic capital measurement, experience and judgment of senior risk officers, current portfolio levels, strategic planning, and regulatory and rating agency expectations.
     GE Capital uses stress testing to supplement other risk management processes. The ERMC approves the high-level scenarios for, and reviews the results
of, GE Capital-wide stress tests across key risk areas, such as credit and investment, liquidity and market risk. Stress test results are also expressed in terms of impact to capital levels and metrics, and that information is reviewed with the GECS
Board and the GE Risk Committee at least twice a year. Stress testing requirements are set forth in the Company s approved risk policies. Key policies, such as the Enterprise Risk Management Policy, the Enterprise Risk Appetite Statement and
the Liquidity and Capital Management policies are approved by the GE Risk Committee at least annually.      GE Capital, in coordination with and under the
oversight of the GE CRO, provides comprehensive risk reports to the GE Risk Committee. At these meetings, which occur at least four times a year, GE Capital senior management focuses on the risk strategy and financial services portfolio, including
the risk oversight processes used to manage all the elements of risk managed by the ERMC.      Additional information about our liquidity and how we manage
this risk can be found in the Financial Resources and Liquidity section. Additional information about our credit risk and GECS portfolio can be found in the Financial Resources and Liquidity and Critical Accounting Estimates sections.   
   Segment Operations       Our five segments are focused on the
broad markets they serve: Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, GE Capital and Home   Business Solutions. In addition to providing information on segments in their entirety, we have also provided supplemental
information for certain businesses within the segments for greater clarity.      Segment profit is determined based on internal performance measures used by
the Chief Executive Officer to assess the performance of each business in a given period. In connection with that assessment, the Chief Executive Officer may exclude matters such as charges for restructuring; rationalization and other similar
expenses; in-process research and development and certain other acquisition-related charges and balances; technology and product development costs; certain gains and losses from acquisitions or dispositions; and litigation settlements or other
charges, responsibility for which preceded the current management team.   
         (37)   

Table of Contents  

   Segment profit excludes the effects of principal pension plans, results reported as discontinued operations, earnings
attributable to noncontrolling interests of consolidated subsidiaries and accounting changes. Segment profit excludes or includes interest and other financial charges and income taxes according to how a particular segment s management is
measured   excluded in determining segment profit, which we sometimes refer to as  operating profit,  for Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Home   Business Solutions; included in determining
segment profit, which we sometimes refer to as  net earnings,  for GE Capital. Beginning January 1, 2011, we will allocate service costs related to our principal pension plans and we will no longer allocate the retiree costs of our
postretirement healthcare benefits to our segments. This revised allocation methodology will better align segment operating costs to the active employee costs, which are managed by the segments. We do not expect this change to significantly affect
reported segment results.      We have reclassified certain prior-period amounts to conform to the current-period presentation. For additional information
about our segments, see Part I, Item 1.  Business  and Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
   Summary of Operating Segments        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         (38)   

Table of Contents  

    Energy Infrastructure        
    Energy Infrastructure segment revenues decreased 8%, or $3.1
billion, in 2010 as lower volume ($3.3 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.4 billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.5 billion) and higher other income ($0.1 billion). Lower volume primarily reflected decreases in thermal and wind
equipment sales at Energy. The effects of the stronger U.S. dollar were at both Energy and Oil   Gas. Higher prices at Energy were partially offset by lower prices at Oil   Gas. The increase in other income at Energy was partially
offset by lower other income at Oil   Gas.      Segment profit increased 2% to $7.3 billion in 2010, compared with $7.1 billion in 2009 as higher
prices ($0.5 billion), the effects of deflation ($0.4 billion) and higher other income ($0.1 billion) were partially offset by lower volume ($0.6 billion), the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion) and decreased productivity ($0.1 billion). Higher
prices at Energy were partially offset by lower prices at Oil   Gas. The effects of deflation primarily reflected decreased material costs at both Energy and Oil   Gas. An increase in other income at Energy was partially offset by
lower other income at Oil   Gas. Lower volume primarily reflected decreases in wind and thermal equipment sales at Energy and was partially offset by higher volume at Oil   Gas. The effects of the stronger U.S. dollar were at both
Energy and Oil   Gas. The effects of decreased productivity were primarily at Energy.      Energy Infrastructure segment revenues decreased 6%, or
$2.4 billion, in 2009 as higher prices ($1.3 billion) were more than offset by lower volume ($2.5 billion), the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.8 billion) and lower other income ($0.4 billion), primarily related to lower earnings from associated companies
and marks on foreign currency contracts. The increase in price was primarily at Energy. The decrease in volume reflected decreased equipment sales at Energy, partially offset by increased equipment sales at Oil   Gas. The effects of the
stronger U.S. dollar were at both Energy and Oil   Gas.      Segment profit increased 9% to $7.1 billion in 2009, compared with $6.5 billion in
2008, as higher prices ($1.3 billion) and lower material and other costs ($0.5 billion) were partially offset by lower other income ($0.7 billion), primarily related to lower earnings from associated companies and marks on foreign currency
contracts, lower volume ($0.3 billion) and lower productivity ($0.1 billion). Lower material and other costs were primarily at Energy. Lower volume at Energy was partially offset by higher volume at Oil   Gas. The effects of lower
productivity were at Energy.      Energy Infrastructure segment orders were $39.4 billion in both 2010 and 2009. The $27.3 billion total backlog at year-end
2010 comprised unfilled product orders of $18.4 billion (of which 77% was scheduled for delivery in 2011) and product services orders of $8.9 billion scheduled for 2011 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2009, total backlog was $29.1 billion, of
which $20.0 billion was for unfilled product orders and $9.1 billion, for product services orders. See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.   
         (39)   

Table of Contents  

    Technology Infrastructure        
    Technology Infrastructure revenues decreased 2%, or $0.7
billion, in 2010 as lower volume ($0.6 billion) and lower other income ($0.1 billion), reflecting lower transaction gains, were partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion). The decrease in volume reflected decreased commercial and
military equipment sales and services at Aviation and decreased equipment sales and services at Transportation, partially offset by increased equipment sales and services at Healthcare. Lower transaction gains reflect the absence of gains related to
the Airfoils Technologies International   Singapore Pte. Ltd. (ATI) acquisition and the Times Microwave Systems disposition in 2009, partially offset by a gain on a partial sale of a materials business and a franchise fee at Aviation. The
effects of the weaker U.S. dollar were primarily at Healthcare.      Segment profit decreased 7% to $6.3 billion in 2010, compared with $6.8 billion in
2009, from lower productivity ($0.3 billion), lower other income ($0.1 billion), reflecting lower transaction gains, lower volume ($0.1 billion) and the effects of inflation ($0.1 billion), partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion).
Lower productivity at Aviation, primarily due to product launch and production costs associated with the GEnx engine shipments, and at Transportation, primarily due to higher service costs, was partially offset by increased productivity at
Healthcare. Lower transaction gains reflect the absence of gains related to the ATI acquisition and the Times Microwave Systems disposition in 2009, partially offset by a gain on a partial sale of a materials business and a franchise fee at
Aviation. The decreases in volume were at Aviation and Transportation, partially offset by Healthcare. The effects of inflation were primarily at Aviation and Healthcare. The effects of the weaker U.S. dollar were primarily at Healthcare.
     Technology Infrastructure revenues decreased 7%, or $3.1 billion, in 2009 as lower volume ($3.2 billion), the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.3 billion) and
an update at Transportation of our estimate of product service costs in maintenance service agreements ($0.3 billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.5 billion) and higher other income ($0.3 billion), primarily including gains on the ATI
acquisition and the Times Microwave Systems disposition. The decrease in volume was across all businesses in the segment. The effects of the stronger U.S. dollar were at Healthcare and Aviation. Higher prices, primarily at Aviation, were partially
offset by lower prices at Healthcare.      Segment profit decreased 9% to $6.8 billion in 2009, compared with $7.5 billion in 2008, as the effects of lower
volume ($0.9 billion), lower productivity ($0.4 billion) and higher other costs ($0.1 billion) were partially offset by higher prices ($0.5 billion) and higher other income ($0.2 billion), primarily including gains on the ATI acquisition and the
Times Microwave Systems disposition. The decrease in volume was across all businesses in the segment. Lower productivity at Transportation was partially offset by Aviation.      Technology Infrastructure orders increased to $41.5 billion in 2010, from $37.9 billion in 2009. The $39.4 billion total backlog at year-end 2010 comprised unfilled product orders of $27.7 billion (of which 46% was
scheduled for delivery in 2011) and product services orders of $11.7 billion scheduled for 2011 delivery. Comparable December 31, 2009, total backlog was $37.9 billion, of which $26.0 billion was for unfilled product orders and $11.9 billion,
for product services orders. See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.   
         (40)   

Table of Contents  

    NBC Universal  revenues of $16.9 billion increased 9%, or $1.5 billion, in 2010 as higher revenues in our
broadcast television business ($0.7 billion), lower impairments related to associated companies and investment securities ($0.5 billion), higher revenues in film ($0.3 billion), higher revenues in cable ($0.4 billion) and higher revenues in parks
($0.2 billion) were partially offset by the lack of a current year counterpart to a 2009 gain related to A E Television Network (AETN) ($0.6 billion). The increase in broadcast revenues reflects the 2010 Olympic broadcasts, partially offset by
the absence of revenues from the 2009 Super Bowl broadcast. Segment profit of $2.3 billion was unchanged from 2009, as lower gains related to associated companies ($0.7 billion) and lower earnings in our broadcast television business ($0.3 billion)
were offset by lower impairments related to associated companies and investment securities ($0.5 billion), higher earnings in cable ($0.3 billion), higher earnings in film ($0.2 billion) and higher earnings in parks ($0.1 billion). The decrease in
broadcast television earnings reflects losses from the Olympics broadcast, partially offset by the lack of losses related to the 2009 Super Bowl broadcast.      NBC Universal revenues decreased 9%, or $1.5 billion, in 2009 as lower revenues in our broadcast television business ($1.1 billion), reflecting the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2008 Olympics broadcasts
and the effects of lower advertising revenues, lower revenues in film ($0.8 billion) and lower earnings and higher impairments related to associated companies and investment securities ($0.4 billion) were partially offset by the gain relating to
AETN ($0.6 billion) and higher revenues in cable ($0.3 billion). Segment profit of $2.3 billion decreased 28%, or $0.9 billion, as lower earnings in film ($0.6 billion), lower earnings and higher impairments related to associated companies and
investment securities ($0.4 billion), lack of a current-year counterpart to 2008 proceeds from insurance claims ($0.4 billion) and lower earnings in our broadcast television business ($0.2 billion) were partially offset by the gain related to AETN
($0.6 billion) and higher earnings in cable ($0.2 billion). See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.   
  On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast Corporation (Comcast) transferred certain of its assets comprising cable
networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments to a newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash from Comcast of $6.2 billion and a 49%
interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. Our NBC Universal business was classified as held for sale at December 31, 2010 and 2009. For additional information, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       GE Capital    

(41)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL.
Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.        GE Capital revenues decreased 5% and net earnings
increased 123% in 2010 as compared with 2009. Revenues for 2010 and 2009 included $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion of revenues from acquisitions, respectively, and in 2010 were increased by $0.1 billion and in 2009 were reduced by $2.3 billion as a
result of dispositions, including the effects of the 2010 deconsolidation of Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency) and the 2009 deconsolidation of Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL). The 2010 deconsolidation of Regency included a $0.1 billion
gain on the sale of our general partnership interest in Regency and remeasurement of our retained investment (the Regency transaction). Revenues for 2010 also decreased $0.7 billion compared with 2009 as a result of organic revenue declines
primarily driven by a lower asset base and a lower interest rate environment, partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar. Net earnings increased for 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to lower provisions for losses on financing receivables,
lower selling, general and administrative costs and the gain on the Regency transaction, offset by higher marks and impairments, mainly at Real Estate, the absence of the first quarter 2009 tax benefit from the decision to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S., and the absence of the first quarter 2009 gain related to the PTL sale. GE Capital net earnings in 2010 also included restructuring, rationalization and other charges of $0.2 billion and net losses of $0.1
billion related to our Treasury operations.      GE Capital revenues decreased 26% and net earnings decreased 82% in 2009 as compared with 2008. Revenues in
2009 and 2008 included $2.1 billion and $0.4 billion of revenue from acquisitions, respectively, and in 2009 were reduced by $4.8 billion as a result of dispositions, including the effect of the deconsolidation of PTL. Revenues in 2009 also
decreased $14.8 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue declines, primarily driven by a lower asset base and a lower interest rate environment, and the stronger U.S. dollar. Net earnings decreased by $6.6 billion in 2009 compared
with 2008, primarily due to higher provisions for losses on financing receivables associated with the challenging economic environment, partially offset by lower selling, general and administrative costs and the decision to indefinitely reinvest
prior-year earnings outside the U.S. Net earnings also included restructuring and other charges for 2009 of $0.4 billion and net losses of $0.1 billion related to our Treasury operations.   
         (42)   

Table of Contents  

   Additional information about certain GE Capital businesses follows.   
  CLL 2010 revenues decreased 11% and net earnings increased 61% compared with 2009. Revenues in 2010 and 2009 included $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively,
from acquisitions, and in 2010 were reduced by $1.2 billion from dispositions, primarily related to the deconsolidation of PTL, which included $0.3 billion related to a gain on the sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL and
remeasurement of our retained investment. Revenues in 2010 also decreased $1.2 billion compared with 2009 as a result of organic revenue declines ($1.4 billion), partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.2 billion). Net earnings increased by
$0.6 billion in 2010, reflecting lower provisions for losses on financing receivables ($0.6 billion), higher gains ($0.2 billion) and lower selling, general and administrative costs ($0.1 billion). These increases were partially offset by the
absence of the gain on the PTL sale and remeasurement ($0.3 billion) and declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.1 billion).      CLL
2009 revenues decreased 23% and net earnings decreased 48% compared with 2008. Revenues in 2009 and 2008 included $1.9 billion and $0.3 billion from acquisitions, respectively, and were reduced by $3.2 billion from dispositions, primarily related to
the deconsolidation of PTL. Revenues in 2009 also included $0.3 billion related to a gain on the sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL and remeasurement of our retained investment. Revenues in 2009 decreased $4.7 billion
compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue declines ($4.0 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.7 billion). Net earnings decreased by $0.9 billion in 2009, reflecting higher provisions for losses on financing receivables ($0.5 billion),
lower gains ($0.5 billion) and declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.4 billion), partially offset by acquisitions ($0.4 billion), higher investment income ($0.3 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion). Net earnings
also included the gain on PTL sale and remeasurement ($0.3 billion) and higher Genpact gains ($0.1 billion), partially offset by mark-to-market losses and other-than-temporary impairments ($0.1 billion).   
  Consumer 2010 revenues increased 1% and net earnings increased 85% compared with 2009. Revenues in 2010 were reduced by $0.3 billion as a result of dispositions.
Revenues in 2010 increased $0.5 billion compared with 2009 as a result of the weaker U.S. dollar ($0.5 billion). The increase in net earnings resulted primarily from core growth ($1.2 billion) and the weaker U.S dollar ($0.1 billion), partially
offset by the effects of dispositions ($0.1 billion). Core growth included lower provisions for losses on financing receivables across most platforms ($1.5 billion) and lower selling, general and administrative costs ($0.2 billion), partially offset
by declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.7 billion) including the absence of the first quarter 2009 tax benefit ($0.5 billion) from the decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S. and an increase in
the valuation allowance associated with Japan ($0.2 billion).      Consumer 2009 revenues decreased 27% and net earnings decreased 61% compared with 2008.
Revenues in 2009 included $0.2 billion from acquisitions and were reduced by $1.7 billion as a result of dispositions, and the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2008 gain on sale of our Corporate Payment Services (CPS) business ($0.4
billion). Revenues in 2009 decreased $4.7 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue declines ($3.1 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($1.6 billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from core declines ($2.4
billion) and the lack of a current-year counterpart to the 2008 gain on sale of our CPS business ($0.2 billion). These decreases were partially offset by higher securitization income ($0.3 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion). Core
declines primarily resulted from lower results in the U.S., U.K., and our banks in Eastern Europe, reflecting higher provisions for losses on financing receivables ($1.3 billion) and declines in lower-taxed earnings from global operations ($0.7
billion). The benefit from lower-taxed earnings from global operations included $0.5 billion from the decision to indefinitely reinvest prior-year earnings outside the U.S.      Real Estate 2010 revenues decreased 7% and net earnings decreased 13% compared with 2009. Revenues for 2010 decreased $0.3 billion compared with 2009 as a result of organic revenue declines and a decrease in
property sales, partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar. Real Estate net earnings decreased $0.2 billion compared with 2009, primarily from an increase in impairments related to equity properties and investments ($0.9 billion), partially offset
by a decrease in provisions for losses on financing receivables ($0.4 billion), and core increases ($0.3 billion). Depreciation expense on real estate equity investments totaled $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion for 2010 and 2009, respectively.
  
         (43)   

Table of Contents  

   Real Estate 2009 revenues decreased 40% and net earnings decreased $2.7 billion compared with 2008. Revenues in 2009
decreased $2.6 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic revenue declines ($2.4 billion), primarily as a result of a decrease in sales of properties, and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.2 billion). Real Estate net earnings decreased $2.7
billion compared with 2008, primarily from an increase in provisions for losses on financing receivables and impairments ($1.2 billion) and a decrease in gains on sales of properties as compared to the prior period ($1.1 billion). In the normal
course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. Depreciation expense on real estate equity investments totaled $1.2 billion in both 2009 and 2008.   
  Energy Financial Services 2010 revenues decreased 8% and net earnings increased 73% compared with 2009. Revenues in 2010 included a $0.1 billion gain related to
the Regency transaction and in 2009 were reduced by $0.1 billion of gains from dispositions. Revenues in 2010 decreased compared with 2009 as a result of organic revenue growth ($0.4 billion), primarily increases in associated company revenues
resulting from an asset sale by an investee ($0.2 billion), more than offset by the deconsolidation of Regency. The increase in net earnings resulted primarily from core increases ($0.1 billion), primarily increases in associated company earnings
resulting from an asset sale by an investee ($0.2 billion) and the gain related to the Regency transaction ($0.1 billion).      Energy Financial Services
2009 revenues decreased 43% and net earnings decreased 74% compared with 2008. Revenues in 2009 included $0.1 billion of gains from dispositions. Revenues in 2009 also decreased $1.7 billion compared with 2008 as a result of organic declines ($1.7
billion), primarily as a result of the effects of lower energy commodity prices and a decrease in gains on sales of assets. The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from core declines, including a decrease in gains on sales of assets as
compared to the prior period and the effects of lower energy commodity prices.      GECAS 2010 revenues increased 12% and net earnings increased 18%
compared with 2009. Revenues in 2010 increased compared with 2009 as a result of organic revenue growth ($0.5 billion), including higher investment income. The increase in net earnings resulted primarily from core increases ($0.2 billion), including
the benefit from resolution of the 2003-2005 IRS audit, lower credit losses and higher investment income, partially offset by higher impairments related to our operating lease portfolio of commercial aircraft.   
  GECAS 2009 revenues decreased 2% and net earnings decreased 11% compared with 2008. The decrease in revenues resulted primarily from lower asset sales ($0.2
billion). The decrease in net earnings resulted primarily from lower asset sales ($0.1 billion) and core declines reflecting higher credit losses and impairments.       Home   Business Solutions  revenues increased 2%, or $0.2 billion, to $8.6 billion in 2010 compared with 2009 as higher volume ($0.4 billion) and higher other income ($0.1 billion) was partially
offset by lower prices ($0.2 billion). The increase in volume reflected increased sales across all businesses. The decrease in price was primarily at Appliances. Segment profit increased 24%, or $0.1 billion, to $0.5 billion in 2010, primarily as a
result of the effects of productivity ($0.2 billion) and increased other income primarily related to associated companies ($0.1 billion), partially offset by lower prices ($0.2 billion).      Home   Business Solutions revenues of $8.4 billion decreased 17%, or $1.7 billion, in 2009 compared with 2008, as lower volume ($1.8 billion) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($0.1 billion) were partially
offset by higher prices ($0.2 billion). The decrease in volume primarily reflected tightened consumer spending in the European and U.S. markets. Segment profit increased 1% in 2009 as higher prices ($0.2 billion) and lower material and other costs
($0.2 billion) were partially offset by lower productivity ($0.2 billion) and lower other income ($0.1 billion). See Corporate Items and Eliminations for a discussion of items not allocated to this segment.   
         (44)   

Table of Contents  

    Corporate Items and Eliminations    
   
    Corporate Items and Eliminations include the effects of eliminating transactions between operating segments; certain disposed
businesses, including our Security business; results of our insurance activities remaining in continuing operations; cost of our principal pension plans; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non-allocated amounts described below. Corporate
Items and Eliminations is not an operating segment. Rather, it is added to operating segment totals to reconcile to consolidated totals on the financial statements.      Certain amounts included in Corporate Items and Eliminations cost are not allocated to GE operating segments because they are excluded from the measurement of their operating performance for internal purposes. In
2010, these included $0.5 billion at Technology Infrastructure and $0.3 billion at Energy Infrastructure, primarily for technology and product development costs, restructuring, rationalization and other charges, and $0.3 billion at Home  
Business Solutions and $0.1 billion at NBC Universal, primarily for restructuring, rationalization and other charges. In 2009, these included $0.3 billion at both Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure and $0.2 billion at
Home   Business Solutions, primarily for restructuring, rationalization and other charges and $0.3 billion at NBC Universal, primarily for restructuring, rationalization and other charges and technology and product development costs. In
2008, amounts primarily related to restructuring, rationalization and other charges were $0.5 billion at NBC Universal, $0.4 billion at Technology Infrastructure and $0.3 billion at each of Energy Infrastructure and Home   Business
Solutions. Included in these amounts in 2008 were technology and product development costs of $0.2 billion at NBC Universal and $0.1 billion at Technology Infrastructure.      In 2010, underabsorbed corporate overhead increased by $0.2 billion, primarily related to increased costs at our global research centers. Other operating profit (cost) decreased $0.4 billion in 2010 as compared
with 2009, as lower restructuring and other charges (including environmental remediation costs related to the Hudson River dredging project) ($0.6 billion) were partially offset by lower gains related to disposed businesses ($0.2 billion).
      Discontinued Operations           
    Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan, our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico
and Plastics. Results of these businesses are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.      During the fourth quarter of 2010, we
completed the sale of our 100% interest in BAC for $1.9 billion. As a result, we recognized an after-tax gain of $0.8 billion in 2010. The disposition of BAC is consistent with our goal of reducing ENI and focusing our businesses on selective
financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk.   
         (45)   

Table of Contents  

   In the fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into agreements to sell Consumer RV Marine and Consumer Mexico for
approximately $2.4 billion and approximately $2.0 billion, respectively, and have classified these businesses as discontinued operations.      During the
third quarter of 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Lake business and recorded an after-tax loss of $0.9 billion, which represented the difference between the net book value of our Lake business and the projected sale price. During 2008, we
completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our minority ownership interest in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. In connection with this sale, and primarily related to our
Japanese mortgage and card businesses, we recorded an incremental $0.4 billion loss in 2008.      In 2010, loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes,
primarily reflected incremental reserves for excess interest claims related to our loss-sharing arrangement on the 2008 sale of GE Money Japan ($1.7 billion) and estimated after-tax losses of $0.2 billion and $0.1 billion on the planned sales of
Consumer Mexico and Consumer RV Marine, respectively, partially offset by an after-tax gain on the sale of BAC of $0.8 billion and earnings from operations at Consumer Mexico of $0.2 billion and at BAC of $0.1 billion.   
  Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2009, primarily reflected incremental reserves for excess interest claims related to our loss-sharing
arrangement on the 2008 sale of GE Money Japan of $0.1 billion.      Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes, in 2008 was $0.6 billion, primarily
reflected a loss from operations of $0.3 billion, and incremental reserves for excess interest claims related to our loss-sharing arrangement on the 2008 sale of GE Money Japan of $0.4 billion.   
  For additional information related to discontinued operations, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       Geographic Operations       Our global activities span all geographic regions and primarily encompass manufacturing for local and export markets, import and sale of products produced in other regions, leasing of aircraft, sourcing for our
plants domiciled in other global regions and provision of financial services within these regional economies. Thus, when countries or regions experience currency and/or economic stress, we often have increased exposure to certain risks, but also
often have new profit opportunities. Potential increased risks include, among other things, higher receivable delinquencies and bad debts, delays or cancellations of sales and orders principally related to power and aircraft equipment, higher local
currency financing costs and slowdown in established financial services activities. New profit opportunities include, among other things, more opportunities for lower cost outsourcing, expansion of industrial and financial services activities
through purchases of companies or assets at reduced prices and lower U.S. debt financing costs.      Revenues are classified according to the region to
which products and services are sold. For purposes of this analysis, U.S. is presented separately from the remainder of the Americas. We classify certain operations that cannot meaningfully be associated with specific geographic areas as  Other
Global  for this purpose.   
         (46)   

Table of Contents  

    Geographic Revenues           
    Global revenues decreased 4% to $79.7 billion in 2010, compared with $83.1 billion and $96.6 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Global revenues to external customers as a percentage of consolidated revenues were 53% in 2010, compared with 54% in 2009 and 53% in 2008. The effects of currency fluctuations on reported results increased revenues by $0.5 billion in 2010,
decreased revenues by $3.9 billion in 2009 and increased revenues by $2.0 billion in 2008.      GE global revenues, excluding GECS, in 2010 were $53.3
billion, down 5% over 2009. Decreases of 12% in Europe and 9% in the Middle East and Africa more than offset increases in growth markets of 43% in Australia and 18% in Latin America. These revenues as a percentage of GE total revenues, excluding
GECS, were 53% in 2010, compared with 55% and 53% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. GE global revenues, excluding GECS, were $56.4 billion in 2009, down 5% from 2008, primarily resulting from decreases in Western Europe and Latin America.   
  GECS global revenues decreased 1% to $26.4 billion in 2010, compared with $26.7 billion and $37.2 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily as a result of
decreases in Europe. GECS global revenues as a percentage of total GECS revenues were 52% in 2010, compared with 51% and 53% in 2009 and 2008, respectively. GECS global revenue decreased by 28% in 2009 from $37.2 billion in 2008, primarily due to
dispositions in Europe and the Pacific Basin.       Total Assets (continuing operations)    
   
    Total assets of global operations on a continuing basis were $358.6 billion in 2010, a decrease of $20.9 billion, or 6%, from 2009.
GECS global assets on a continuing basis of $279.6 billion at the end of 2010 were 9% lower than at the end of 2009, reflecting core declines in Europe and the Pacific Basin, primarily due to portfolio run-off in various businesses at Consumer and
lower financing receivables and equipment leased to others at CLL.      Financial results of our global activities reported in U.S. dollars are affected by
currency exchange. We use a number of techniques to manage the effects of currency exchange, including selective borrowings in local currencies and selective hedging of significant cross-currency transactions. Such principal currencies are the pound
sterling, the euro, the Japanese yen, the Canadian dollar and the Australian dollar.   
         (47)   

Table of Contents  

    Environmental Matters       Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable
number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal
site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.2 billion in 2010, $0.3 billion in 2009 and $0.2 billion in 2008. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4
billion for each of the next two years.      As previously disclosed, in 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to dredge PCB-containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an
intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On
December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decisions setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we
agreed with EPA to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA. We have reviewed EPA s final performance standards for Phase 2 to assess the potential scope and duration of Phase 2, as well as
operational and engineering changes that could be required. Based on this review and our best professional engineering judgment, we increased our reserve for the probable and estimable costs for completing the Hudson River dredging project by $0.8
billion in the fourth quarter of 2010.       Financial Resources and Liquidity       This discussion of financial resources and liquidity addresses the Statement of Financial Position, Liquidity and Borrowings, Debt and Derivative Instruments, Guarantees and Covenants, the Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Shareowners  Equity, the Statement of Cash Flows, Contractual Obligations, and Variable Interest Entities.       Overview of Financial
Position       Major changes to our shareowners  equity are discussed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity section.
In addition, other significant changes to balances in our Statement of Financial Position follow.       Statement of Financial Position    
  Because GE and GECS share certain significant elements of their Statements of Financial Position   property, plant and equipment and borrowings, for example
  the following discussion addresses significant captions in the  consolidated  statement. Within the following discussions, however, we distinguish between GE and GECS activities in order to permit meaningful analysis of each
individual consolidating statement.       Investment securities  comprise mainly investment grade debt securities supporting obligations to annuitants
and policyholders in our run-off insurance operations and holders of guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) in Trinity (which ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in the first quarter of 2010) and investment securities held at our
global banks. The fair value of investment securities decreased to $43.9 billion at December 31, 2010, from $51.3 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily driven by a decrease in retained interests as a result of our adoption of FASB
Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17, amendments to ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing , and ASC 810,  Consolidations , respectively (ASU 2009-16   17), and maturities partially offset by improved market
conditions. Of the amount at December 31, 2010, we held debt securities with an estimated fair value of $42.8 billion, which included corporate debt securities, residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and commercial mortgage-backed
securities (CMBS) with estimated fair values of $25.4 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively. Unrealized losses on debt securities were $1.4 billion and $2.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.
This amount included unrealized losses on corporate debt securities, RMBS and CMBS of $0.4 billion, $0.4 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010, as compared with $0.8 billion, $0.8 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively,
at December 31, 2009.   
         (48)   

Table of Contents  

   We regularly review investment securities for impairment using both qualitative and quantitative criteria. We
presently do not intend to sell our debt securities and believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities that are in an unrealized loss position before recovery of our amortized cost. We believe that the
unrealized loss associated with our equity securities will be recovered within the foreseeable future.      Our RMBS portfolio is collateralized primarily
by pools of individual, direct mortgage loans (a majority of which were originated in 2006 and 2005), not other structured products such as collateralized debt obligations. Substantially all of our RMBS securities are in a senior position in the
capital structure of the deals and 65% are agency bonds or insured by Monoline insurers (on which we continue to place reliance). Of our total RMBS portfolio at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, approximately $0.7 billion and $0.9
billion, respectively, relate to residential subprime credit, primarily supporting our guaranteed investment contracts. A majority of exposure to residential subprime credit related to investment securities backed by mortgage loans originated in
2006 and 2005. Substantially all of the subprime RMBS were investment grade at the time of purchase and approximately 72% have been subsequently downgraded to below investment grade.      Our CMBS portfolio is collateralized by both diversified pools of mortgages that were originated for securitization (conduit CMBS) and pools of large loans backed by high quality properties (large loan CMBS), a
majority of which were originated in 2007 and 2006. Substantially all of the securities in our CMBS portfolio have investment grade credit ratings and the vast majority of the securities are in a senior position in the capital structure.   
  Our asset-backed securities (ABS) portfolio is collateralized by a variety of diversified pools of assets such as student loans and credit cards, as well as large
senior secured loans of high quality middle market companies in a variety of industries. The vast majority of our ABS securities are in a senior position in the capital structure of the deals. In addition, substantially all of the securities that
are below investment grade are in an unrealized gain position.      For ABS, including RMBS, we estimate the portion of loss attributable to credit using a
discounted cash flow model that considers estimates of cash flows generated from the underlying collateral. Estimates of cash flows consider internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment assumptions that incorporate management s best
estimate of key assumptions, including default rates, loss severity and prepayment rates. For CMBS, we estimate the portion of loss attributable to credit by evaluating potential losses on each of the underlying loans in the security. Collateral
cash flows are considered in the context of our position in the capital structure of the deals. Assumptions can vary widely depending upon the collateral type, geographic concentrations and vintage.   
  If there has been an adverse change in cash flows for RMBS, management considers credit enhancements such as Monoline insurance (which are features of a specific
security). In evaluating the overall creditworthiness of the Monoline insurer (Monoline), we use an analysis that is similar to the approach we use for corporate bonds, including an evaluation of the sufficiency of the Monoline s cash reserves
and capital, ratings activity, whether the Monoline is in default or default appears imminent, and the potential for intervention by an insurance or other regulator.      Monolines provide credit enhancement for certain of our investment securities, primarily RMBS and municipal securities. The credit enhancement is a feature of each specific security that guarantees the payment of
all contractual cash flows, and is not purchased separately by GE. The Monoline industry continues to experience financial stress from increasing delinquencies and defaults on the individual loans underlying insured securities. We continue to rely
on Monolines with adequate capital and claims paying resources. We have reduced our reliance on Monolines that do not have adequate capital or have experienced regulator intervention. At December 31, 2010, our investment securities insured by
Monolines on which we continue to place reliance were $1.7 billion, including $0.3 billion of our $0.7 billion investment in subprime RMBS. At December 31, 2010, the unrealized loss associated with securities subject to Monoline credit
enhancement for which there is an expected credit loss was $0.3 billion.      Total pre-tax, other-than-temporary impairment losses during 2010 were $0.5
billion, of which $0.3 billion was recognized in earnings and primarily relates to credit losses on RMBS, non-U.S. government securities, non-U.S. corporate securities and equity securities, and $0.2 billion primarily relates to non-credit related
losses on RMBS and is included within accumulated other comprehensive income.   
         (49)   

Table of Contents  

   Our qualitative review attempts to identify issuers  securities that are  at-risk  of
other-than-temporary impairment, that is, for securities that we do not intend to sell and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell before recovery of our amortized cost, whether there is a possibility of credit loss that
would result in an other-than-temporary impairment recognition in the following 12 months. Securities we have identified as  at-risk  primarily relate to investments in RMBS securities and non-U.S. corporate debt securities across a broad
range of industries. The amount of associated unrealized loss on these securities at December 31, 2010, is $0.4 billion. Credit losses that would be recognized in earnings are calculated when we determine the security to be
other-than-temporarily impaired. Uncertainty in the capital markets may cause increased levels of other-than-temporary impairments.      At
December 31, 2010, unrealized losses on investment securities totaled $1.4 billion, including $1.2 billion aged 12 months or longer, compared with unrealized losses of $2.6 billion, including $2.3 billion aged 12 months or longer, at
December 31, 2009. Of the amount aged 12 months or longer at December 31, 2010, more than 70% of our debt securities were considered to be investment grade by the major rating agencies. In addition, of the amount aged 12 months or longer,
$0.7 billion and $0.3 billion related to structured securities (mortgage-backed, asset-backed and securitization retained interests) and corporate debt securities, respectively. With respect to our investment securities that are in an unrealized
loss position at December 31, 2010, the vast majority relate to debt securities held to support obligations to holders of GICs and annuitants and policyholders in our run-off insurance operations. We presently do not intend to sell our debt
securities and believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities that are in an unrealized loss position before recovery of our amortized cost. For additional information, see Note 3 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       Fair Value
Measurements . For financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, fair value is the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market participant at the
measurement date. In the absence of active markets for the identical assets or liabilities, such measurements involve developing assumptions based on market observable data and, in the absence of such data, internal information that is consistent
with what market participants would use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date. Additional information about our application of this guidance is provided in Notes 1 and 21 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      Investments measured at fair value in earnings
include equity investments of $0.8 billion at year-end 2010. The earnings effects of changes in fair value on these assets, favorable and unfavorable, will be reflected in the period in which those changes occur. As discussed in Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, we also have assets that are classified as held for sale in the ordinary course of business, loans and real
estate properties, carried at $3.5 billion at year-end 2010, which represents the lower of carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell. To the extent that the estimated fair value less costs to sell is lower than carrying value, any
favorable or unfavorable changes in fair value will be reflected in earnings in the period in which such changes occur.       Working capital ,
representing GE current receivables and inventories, less GE accounts payable and progress collections, was $(1.6) billion at December 31, 2010, down an insignificant amount from December 31, 2009, as reductions in inventory and an
increase in accounts payable were offset by higher current receivables and lower progress collections. As Energy Infrastructure and Technology Infrastructure deliver units out of their backlogs over the next few years, progress collections of $11.8
billion at December 31, 2010, will be earned, which, along with progress collections on new orders, will impact working capital. Throughout the last four years, we have executed a significant number of initiatives through our Operating Council,
such as lean cycle time projects, which have resulted in a more efficient use of working capital. We expect to continue these initiatives in 2011, which should significantly offset the effects of decreases in progress collections.   
  We discuss current receivables and inventories, two important elements of working capital, in the following paragraphs.   
         (50)   

Table of Contents  

    Current receivables  for GE totaled to $10.4 billion at the end of 2010 and $9.8 billion at the end of 2009, and
included $8.1 billion due from customers at the end of 2010 compared with $7.5 billion at the end of 2009. GE current receivables turnover was 8.6 in 2010, compared with 8.2 in 2009. The overall increase in current receivables was primarily due to
the higher volume in Technology Infrastructure businesses.       Inventories  for GE totaled to $11.5 billion at December 31, 2010, down $0.5
billion from the end of 2009. This decrease reflected lower inventories at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by higher inventories at Technology Infrastructure. GE inventory turnover was 7.2 and 6.8 in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 5
to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
   Financing receivables  is our largest category of assets and represents one of our primary sources of revenues. Our portfolio of financing receivables is
diverse and not directly comparable to major U.S. banks. A discussion of the quality of certain elements of the financing receivables portfolio follows.   
  Our consumer portfolio is largely non-U.S. and primarily comprises mortgage, sales finance, auto and personal loans in various European and Asian countries. Our
U.S. consumer financing receivables comprise 14% of our total portfolio. Of those, approximately 63% relate primarily to credit cards, which are often subject to profit and loss sharing arrangements with the retailer (the results of which are
reflected in revenues), and have a smaller average balance and lower loss severity as compared to bank cards. The remaining 37% are sales finance receivables, which provide electronics, recreation, medical and home improvement financing to
customers. In 2007, we exited the U.S. mortgage business and we have no U.S. auto or student loans.      Our commercial portfolio primarily comprises
senior, secured positions with comparatively low loss history. The secured receivables in this portfolio are collateralized by a variety of asset classes, which for our CLL business primarily include: industrial-related facilities and equipment,
vehicles, corporate aircraft, and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment, and healthcare industries. The portfolios in our Real Estate, GECAS and Energy
Financial Services businesses are collateralized by commercial real estate, commercial aircraft and operating assets in the global energy and water industries, respectively. We are in a secured position for substantially all of our commercial
portfolio.      Losses on financing receivables are recognized when they are incurred, which requires us to make our best estimate of probable losses
inherent in the portfolio. The method for calculating the best estimate of losses depends on the size, type and risk characteristics of the related financing receivable. Such an estimate requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted
for current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral values (including
housing price indices as applicable), and the present and expected future levels of interest rates. The underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use to provide for losses are updated periodically to reflect our view of current
conditions. Changes in such estimates can significantly affect the allowance and provision for losses. It is possible to experience credit losses that are different from our current estimates.   
  Our risk management process includes standards and policies for reviewing major risk exposures and concentrations, and evaluates relevant data either for
individual loans or financing leases, or on a portfolio basis, as appropriate.      Loans acquired in a business acquisition are recorded at fair value,
which incorporates our estimate at the acquisition date of the credit losses over the remaining life of the portfolio. As a result, the allowance for losses is not carried over at acquisition. This may have the effect of causing lower reserve
coverage ratios for those portfolios.   
         (51)   

Table of Contents  

   For purposes of the discussion that follows,  delinquent  receivables are those that are 30 days or more
past due based on their contractual terms; and  nonearning  receivables are those that are 90 days or more past due (or for which collection is otherwise doubtful). Nonearning receivables exclude loans purchased at a discount (unless they
have deteriorated post acquisition). Under ASC 310,  Receivables , these loans are initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the estimated life of the loan based on reasonably estimable cash flows even if the underlying
loans are contractually delinquent at acquisition. In addition, nonearning receivables exclude loans that are paying on a cash accounting basis but classified as nonaccrual and impaired.  Nonaccrual  financing receivables include all
nonearning receivables and are those on which we have stopped accruing interest. We stop accruing interest at the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the account becomes 90 days past due. Recently restructured
financing receivables are not considered delinquent when payments are brought current according to the restructured terms, but may remain classified as nonaccrual until there has been a period of satisfactory payment performance by the borrower and
future payments are reasonably assured of collection.      Further information on the determination of the allowance for losses on financing receivables and
the credit quality and categorization of our financing receivables is provided in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this Item and Notes 1, 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (52)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Reflects the effects of our adoption of ASU 2009-16   17 on January 1, 2010. See Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.         

(b)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL.
Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.         

(c)  
  Primarily consisted of loans and financing leases in former consolidated, liquidating securitization entities, which became wholly owned affiliates in December 2010.

(e)  
  Our Business properties portfolio is underwritten primarily by the credit quality of the borrower and secured by tenant and owner-occupied commercial properties.

(f)  
  At December 31, 2010, net of credit insurance, approximately 24% of our secured Consumer non-U.S. residential mortgage portfolio comprised loans with introductory, below
market rates that are scheduled to adjust at future dates; with high loan-to-value ratios at inception (greater than 90%); whose terms permitted interest-only payments; or whose terms resulted in negative amortization. At origination, we underwrite
loans with an adjustable rate to the reset value. Of these loans, 82% are in our U.K. and France portfolios, which comprise mainly loans with interest-only payments and introductory below market rates, have a delinquency rate of 15%, have a
loan-to-value ratio at origination of 75% and have re-indexed loan-to-value ratios of 83% and 60%, respectively. At December 31, 2010, 4% (based on dollar values) of these loans in our U.K. and France portfolios have been restructured.
    
         (53)   

Table of Contents  

   On January 1, 2010, we adopted ASU 2009-16   17, resulting in the consolidation of $40.2 billion of net
financing receivables at January 1, 2010. We have provided comparisons of our financing receivables portfolio at December 31, 2010 to January 1, 2010, as we believe that it provides a more meaningful comparison of our portfolio
quality following the adoption of ASU 2009-16   17.      The portfolio of financing receivables, before allowance for losses, was $327.3 billion at
December 31, 2010, and $376.7 billion at January 1, 2010. Financing receivables, before allowance for losses, decreased $49.4 billion from January 1, 2010, primarily as a result of collections exceeding originations ($26.3 billion)
(which includes sales), write-offs ($10.1 billion), the stronger U.S. dollar ($2.1 billion) and dispositions ($1.2 billion), partially offset by acquisitions ($2.8 billion).      Related nonearning receivables totaled $11.6 billion (3.5% of outstanding receivables) at December 31, 2010, compared with $14.2 billion (3.8% of outstanding receivables) at January 1, 2010. Nonearning
receivables decreased from January 1, 2010, primarily due to improvements in our entry rates in Consumer and improved performance in Commercial, offset by increased Real Estate delinquencies driven by the continued challenging environment in
the commercial real estate markets.      The allowance for losses at December 31, 2010 totaled $8.1 billion compared with $9.6 billion at
January 1, 2010, representing our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. Allowance for losses decreased $1.5 billion from January 1, 2010, primarily because provisions were lower than write-offs, net of recoveries by
$1.3 billion, which is attributable to a reduction in the overall financing receivables balance and an improvement in the overall credit environment. The allowance for losses as a percent of total financing receivables increased from 2.3% at
December 31, 2009 to 2.5% at December 31, 2010 primarily due to the adoption of ASU 2009-16   17 on January 1, 2010. Further information surrounding the allowance for losses related to each of our portfolios is detailed
below.      The following table provides information surrounding selected ratios related to nonearning financing receivables and the allowance for losses.
  
         (54)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Reflects the effects of our adoption of ASU 2009-16   17 on January 1, 2010. See Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.         

(b)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL.
Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.        Included below is a discussion of financing
receivables, allowance for losses, nonearning receivables and related metrics for each of our significant portfolios.   
         (55)   

Table of Contents  

    CLL   Americas . Nonearning receivables of $2.6 billion represented 22.2% of total nonearning receivables
at December 31, 2010. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased from 36.2% at January 1, 2010, to 50.1% at December 31, 2010 reflecting an overall decrease in nonearning receivables combined
with a further slight increase in loss severity in our equipment, and franchise restaurant and hotel portfolios. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a percent of financing receivables decreased from 3.4% at January 1, 2010, to 3.0% at
December 31, 2010, primarily due to reduced nonearning exposures in our corporate lending, corporate aircraft, and industrial materials portfolios, which more than offset deterioration in our healthcare and franchise restaurant and hotel
portfolios. Collateral supporting these nonearning financing receivables primarily includes corporate aircraft and assets in the restaurant and hospitality, trucking, and forestry industries, and for our leveraged finance business, equity of the
underlying businesses.       CLL   Europe . Nonearning receivables of $1.2 billion represented 10.7% of total nonearning receivables at
December 31, 2010. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables decreased from 39.9% at January 1, 2010, to 34.6% at December 31, 2010, as a greater proportion of nonearning receivables was attributable to
the Interbanca S.p.A. portfolio, which was acquired in 2009. The loans acquired with Interbanca S.p.A were recorded at fair value, which incorporates an estimate at the acquisition date of credit losses over their remaining life. Accordingly, these
loans generally have a lower ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables compared to the remaining portfolio. Excluding the nonearning loans attributable to the 2009 acquisition of Interbanca S.p.A., the ratio of allowance
for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables decreased slightly from 67.2% at January 1, 2010, to 65.7% at December 31, 2010, due to the increase of highly collateralized nonearning receivables in our senior secured lending portfolio,
partially offset by a reduction in nonearning receivables in our senior secured lending and equipment finance portfolios due to restructuring, sale, or write-off. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a percent of financing receivables remained
consistent at 3.3% at December 31, 2010, due to an increase in nonearning receivables in the Interbanca S.p.A. portfolio offset by the decrease in nonearning receivables across our senior secured lending, equipment finance and asset-based
lending portfolios, primarily for the reasons previously mentioned. Collateral supporting these secured nonearning financing receivables are primarily equity of the underlying businesses for our senior secured lending business and equipment and
trade receivables for our equipment finance and asset-based lending portfolios, respectively.       CLL   Asia . Nonearning receivables of $0.4
billion represented 3.5% of total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2010. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased from 41.9% at January 1, 2010, to 54.7% at December 31, 2010, primarily
as a result of restructuring, sale or write-off of nonearning receivables in our asset-based financing businesses in Japan, which is highly collateralized. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a percent of financing receivables decreased from 4.2%
at January 1, 2010, to 3.4% at December 31, 2010, primarily due to the decline in nonearning receivables related to our asset-based financing businesses in Japan, partially offset by a lower financing receivables balance. Collateral
supporting these nonearning financing receivables is primarily commercial real estate, manufacturing equipment, corporate aircraft, and assets in the auto industry.       Real Estate   Debt . Nonearning receivables of $1.0 billion represented 8.3% of total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2010. The increase in nonearning receivables from January 1, 2010,
was driven primarily by increased delinquencies in the U.S. office portfolio and the European hotel and retail portfolios, partially offset by foreclosures and discounted payoffs primarily related to U.S. multi-family loans. The ratio of allowance
for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables decreased from 144.3% to 134.4% reflecting write-offs driven by settlements and payoffs from impaired loan borrowers. Since our approach identifies loans as impaired even when the loan is currently
paying in accordance with contractual terms, increases in nonearning receivables do not necessarily require proportionate increases in reserves upon migration to nonearning status as specific reserves have often been established on the loans prior
to their migration to nonearning status. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of total financing receivables increased from 3.7% at January 1, 2010, to 4.3% at December 31, 2010, driven primarily by continued rental rate
deterioration in the U.S. markets, which resulted in an increase in specific credit loss provisions.   
         (56)   

Table of Contents  

   The Real Estate financing receivables portfolio is collateralized by income-producing or owner-occupied commercial
properties across a variety of asset classes and markets. At December 31, 2010, total Real Estate financing receivables of $40.2 billion were primarily collateralized by owner occupied properties ($10.0 billion), office buildings ($9.4
billion), apartment buildings ($6.2 billion) and hotel properties ($4.4 billion). In 2010, commercial real estate markets have continued to be under pressure, with limited market liquidity and challenging economic conditions. We have and continue to
maintain an intense focus on operations and risk management. Loan loss reserves related to our Real Estate - Debt financing receivables are particularly sensitive to declines in underlying property values. Assuming global property values
decline an incremental 1% or 5%, and that decline occurs evenly across geographies and asset classes, we estimate incremental loan loss reserves would be required of approximately $0.1 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. Estimating the impact of
global property values on loss performance across our portfolio depends on a number of factors, including macroeconomic conditions, property level operating performance, local market dynamics and individual borrower behavior. As a result, any
sensitivity analyses or attempts to forecast potential losses carry a high degree of imprecision and are subject to change. At December 31, 2010, we had 116 foreclosed commercial real estate properties which had a value of approximately $0.6
billion.       Consumer   Non-U.S. residential mortgages . Nonearning receivables of $3.8 billion represented 33.0% of total nonearning
receivables at December 31, 2010. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased slightly from 21.4% at January 1, 2010, to 21.7% at December 31, 2010. In 2010, our nonearning receivables decreased
primarily due to continued collection and loss mitigation efforts and signs of stabilization in the U.K. housing market. Our non-U.S. mortgage portfolio has a loan-to-value ratio of approximately 75% at origination and the vast majority are first
lien positions. Our U.K. and France portfolios, which comprise a majority of our total mortgage portfolio, have reindexed loan-to-value ratios of 83% and 60%, respectively. About 3% of these loans are without mortgage insurance and have a reindexed
loan-to-value ratio equal to or greater than 100%. Loan-to-value information is updated on a quarterly basis for a majority of our loans and considers economic factors such as the housing price index. At December 31, 2010, we had in
repossession stock approximately 700 houses in the U.K., which had a value of approximately $0.1 billion. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a percent of financing receivables increased from 7.9% at January 1, 2010, to 8.4% at
December 31, 2010, primarily due to reduced originations across all platforms.       Consumer   Non-U.S. installment and revolving credit .
Nonearning receivables of $0.3 billion represented 2.5% of total nonearning receivables at December 31, 2010. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables increased from 272.9% at January 1, 2010, to 325.9% at
December 31, 2010, reflecting changes in business mix following the reclassification of nonearning receivables to assets of businesses held for sale following our commitment in 2010 to sell our Consumer businesses in Argentina, Brazil and
Canada.       Consumer   U.S. installment and revolving credit . Nonearning receivables of $1.2 billion represented 10.4% of total nonearning
receivables at December 31, 2010. The ratio of allowance for losses as a percent of nonearning receivables remained consistent at approximately 194.2%. The ratio of nonearning receivables as a percentage of financing receivables decreased from
3.7% at January 1, 2010, to 2.7% at December 31, 2010, primarily due to lower delinquencies reflecting an improvement in the overall credit environment.       Nonaccrual Financing Receivables       The following table provides details related to our nonaccrual and nonearning
financing receivables. Nonaccrual financing receivables include all nonearning receivables and are those on which we have stopped accruing interest. We stop accruing interest at the earlier of the time at which collection becomes doubtful or the
account becomes 90 days past due. Substantially all of the differences between nonearning and nonaccrual financing receivables relate to loans which are classified as nonaccrual financing receivables but are paying on a cash accounting basis, and
therefore excluded from nonearning receivables. Of our $21.4 billion nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2010, $9.3 billion are currently paying in accordance with their contractual terms.   
         (57)   

Table of Contents  

Impaired Loans    
   Impaired  loans in the table below are defined as larger balance or restructured loans for which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect
all amounts due according to original contractual terms of the loan agreement. The vast majority of our Consumer and a portion of our CLL nonaccrual receivables are excluded from this definition, as they represent smaller balance homogeneous loans
that we evaluate collectively by portfolio for impairment.      Impaired loans include nonearning receivables on larger balance or restructured loans, loans
that are currently paying interest under the cash basis (but are excluded from the nonearning category), and loans paying currently but which have been previously restructured.      Specific reserves are recorded for individually impaired loans to the extent we have determined that it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original contractual terms of the
loan agreement. Certain loans classified as impaired may not require a reserve because we believe that we will ultimately collect the unpaid balance (through collection or collateral repossession).   
         (58)   

Table of Contents  

   Further information pertaining to loans classified as impaired and specific reserves is included in the table below.

(a)  
  Reflects the effects of our adoption of ASU 2009-16   17 on January 1, 2010. See Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.         

(b)  
  Includes CLL, Energy Financial Services, GECAS and Other.         

(d)  
  Not applicable.        Impaired loans consolidated as a result of our
adoption of ASU 2009-16   17 primarily related to our Consumer business. Impaired loans increased by $4.8 billion from January 1, 2010, to December 31, 2010, primarily relating to increases at Real Estate. We regularly review our
Real Estate loans for impairment using both quantitative and qualitative factors, such as debt service coverage and loan-to-value ratios. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report. We classify Real Estate loans as impaired when the most recent valuation reflects a projected loan-to-value ratio at maturity in excess of 100%, even if the loan is currently paying in accordance
with contractual terms. The increase in Real Estate impaired loans reflects deterioration in commercial real estate values, particularly in Japan and the U.S., as well as an increase in troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). Real Estate specific
reserves have not increased proportionately to the increase in impaired loans, primarily due to an increase in TDRs that are expected to be fully recoverable based on the value of the underlying collateral and are performing in accordance with their
modified terms. Of our $9.8 billion impaired loans at Real Estate at December 31, 2010, $8.1 billion are currently paying in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan and are typically loans where the borrower has adequate debt service
coverage to meet contractual interest obligations. Impaired loans at CLL primarily represent senior secured lending positions.      Our impaired loan
balance at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, classified by the method used to measure impairment was as follows.   
         (59)   

Table of Contents  

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
of this Form 10-K Report for further information on collateral dependent loans and our valuation process.      Our loss mitigation strategy is intended to
minimize economic loss and, at times, can result in rate reductions, principal forgiveness, extensions, forbearance or other actions, which may cause the related loan to be classified as a TDR, and also as impaired. Changes to Real Estate s
loans primarily include maturity extensions, principal payment acceleration, changes to collateral terms and cash sweeps, which are in addition to, or sometimes in lieu of, fees and rate increases. The determination of whether these changes to the
terms and conditions of our commercial loans meet the TDR criteria includes our consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances. At December 31, 2010, TDRs included in impaired loans were $10.1 billion, primarily relating to Real Estate
($4.9 billion), CLL ($2.9 billion) and Consumer ($2.3 billion). TDRs consolidated as a result of our adoption of ASU 2009-16   17 primarily related to our Consumer business ($0.4 billion).   
  We utilize certain short-term loan modification programs for borrowers experiencing temporary financial difficulties in our Consumer loan portfolio. These loan
modification programs are primarily concentrated in our U.S. credit card and non-U.S. residential mortgage portfolios. We sold our U.S. residential mortgage business in 2007 and as such, do not participate in the U.S. government-sponsored mortgage
modification programs. During 2010, we provided short-term modifications of approximately $2.7 billion of consumer loans for borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. This included approximately $1.2 billion of credit card loans in the U.S. and
approximately $1.5 billion of other consumer loans, primarily non-U.S. residential mortgages, credit cards and personal loans, which were not classified as TDRs. For these modified loans, we provided short-term (12 months or less) interest rate
reductions and payment deferrals, which were not part of the terms of the original contract. We expect borrowers whose loans have been modified under these short-term programs to continue to be able to meet their contractual obligations upon the
conclusion of the short-term modification. Our experience indicates that a substantial majority of loan modifications during 2010 have been successful as approximately $2.2 billion are performing in accordance with the revised contractual terms.
      Delinquencies       Additional information on
delinquency rates at each of our major portfolios follows:       
    Delinquency rates on commercial loans and leases
decreased from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, as a result of improvements in the global economic and credit environment. We expect the global environment to show further signs of stabilization in 2011; however, the credit
environment continues to be uncertain and may impact future levels of commercial delinquencies and provisions for losses on financing receivables.   
         (60)   

Table of Contents  

   Delinquency rates on consumer financing receivables decreased from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010,
primarily due to improved collections and lower delinquency entry rates in our U.S. markets. We expect the global environment, along with U.S. unemployment levels, to further show signs of stabilization in 2011; however, the uncertain economic
environment may result in higher provisions for loan losses. At December 31, 2010, approximately 41% of our U.S. portfolio, which consisted of credit cards, installment and revolving loans, were receivable from subprime borrowers. We had no
U.S. subprime residential mortgage loans at December 31, 2010. See Notes 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial statements in part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, for additional
information.      Delinquency rates on Real Estate loans and leases increased from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, primarily reflecting
continued challenging real estate market fundamentals, including reduced occupancy rates and rentals and the effects of real estate market liquidity, which despite stabilization in certain markets, continues to remain limited in many others. Slow
economic recovery could result in a continuation of elevated delinquency levels and provisions for losses on financing receivables.       Other GECS
receivables  totaled $14.3 billion at December 31, 2010, and $18.6 billion at December 31, 2009, and consisted primarily of amounts due from GE (primarily related to material procurement programs of $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively), insurance receivables, nonfinancing customer receivables, amounts due under operating leases, amounts accrued from investment income and various sundry items. Amounts due from Qualified Special Purpose
Entities (QSPEs) declined from $3.7 billion in 2009 to $0.1 billion in 2010 as a result of our adoption of ASU 2009-16   17.       Property,
plant and equipment  totaled $66.2 billion at December 31, 2010, down $2.8 billion from 2009, primarily reflecting a reduction in equipment leased to others and the deconsolidation of Regency by GECS. GE property, plant and equipment
consisted of investments for its own productive use, whereas the largest element for GECS was equipment provided to third parties on operating leases. Details by category of investment are presented in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements
in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      GE additions to property, plant and
equipment totaled $2.4 billion in both 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total expenditures, excluding equipment leased to others, for the past five years were $13.5 billion, of which 40% was investment for growth through new capacity and product
development; 25% was investment in productivity through new equipment and process improvements; and 35% was investment for other purposes such as improvement of research and development facilities and safety and environmental protection.   
  GECS additions to property, plant and equipment were $7.7 billion and $6.4 billion during 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily reflecting acquisitions and
additions of commercial aircraft at GECAS, offset by disposals of fleet vehicles at CLL.       Goodwill and other intangible assets  totaled $64.5
billion and $10.0 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Goodwill decreased $0.6 billion from 2009, primarily from the deconsolidation of Regency and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, partially offset by the acquisition of Clarient,
Inc. Other intangible assets decreased $1.8 billion from 2009, primarily from dispositions and amortization expense. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
of this Form 10-K Report.       All other assets  comprise mainly real estate equity properties and investments, equity and cost method investments,
contract costs and estimated earnings, derivative instruments and assets held for sale, and totaled $96.3 billion at December 31, 2010, a decrease of $6.9 billion, primarily related to declines in our real estate equity properties due to
impairments, depreciation and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. During 2010, we recognized other-than-temporary impairments of cost and equity method investments, excluding those related to real estate, of $0.1 billion.   
         (61)   

Table of Contents  

   Included in other assets are Real Estate equity investments of $27.2 billion and $32.2 billion at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively. Our portfolio is diversified, both geographically and by asset type. We review the estimated values of our commercial real estate investments semi-annually. As of our most recent estimate performed in 2010, the carrying
value of our Real Estate investments exceeded their estimated value by approximately $5.1 billion. The estimated value of the portfolio continues to reflect deterioration in real estate values and market fundamentals, including reduced market
occupancy rates and market rents as well as the effects of limited real estate market liquidity. Given the current and expected challenging market conditions, there continues to be risk and uncertainty surrounding commercial real estate values.
Declines in estimated value of real estate below carrying amount result in impairment losses when the aggregate undiscounted cash flow estimates used in the estimated value measurement are below the carrying amount. As such, estimated losses in the
portfolio will not necessarily result in recognized impairment losses. During 2010, Real Estate recognized pre-tax impairments of $2.3 billion in its real estate held for investment, compared with $0.8 billion in 2009. Real Estate investments with
undiscounted cash flows in excess of carrying value of 0% to 5% at December 31, 2010 had a carrying value of $1.8 billion and an associated unrealized loss of approximately $0.4 billion. Continued deterioration in economic conditions or
prolonged market illiquidity may result in further impairments being recognized.      Contract costs and estimated earnings reflect revenues earned in
excess of billings on our long-term contracts to construct technically complex equipment (such as power generation, aircraft engines and aeroderivative units) and long-term product maintenance or extended warranty arrangements. Our total contract
costs and estimated earnings balances at December 31, 2010 and 2009, were $8.1 billion and $7.7 billion, respectively, reflecting the timing of billing in relation to work performed, as well as changes in estimates of future revenues and costs.
Our total contract costs and estimated earnings balance at December 31, 2010, primarily related to customers in our Energy, Aviation and Transportation businesses. Further information is provided in the Critical Accounting Estimates section.
      Liquidity and Borrowings       We maintain a strong
focus on liquidity. At both GE and GECS we manage our liquidity to help ensure access to sufficient funding at acceptable costs to meet our business needs and financial obligations throughout business cycles.   
  Our liquidity and borrowing plans for GE and GECS are established within the context of our annual financial and strategic planning processes. At GE, our liquidity
and funding plans take into account the liquidity necessary to fund our operating commitments, which include primarily purchase obligations for inventory and equipment, payroll and general expenses. We also take into account our capital allocation
and growth objectives, including paying dividends, repurchasing shares, investing in research and development and acquiring industrial businesses. At GE, we rely primarily on cash generated through our operating activities and also have historically
maintained a commercial paper program that we regularly use to fund operations in the U.S., principally within fiscal quarters.      GECS liquidity and
funding plans are designed to meet GECS  funding requirements under normal and stress scenarios, which include primarily extensions of credit, payroll, principal payments on outstanding borrowings, interest on borrowings, dividends to GE, and
general obligations such as operating expenses, collateral deposits held or collateral posted to counterparties. GECS  funding plan also has been developed in connection with our strategy to reduce our ending net investment in GE Capital. GECS
relies on cash generated through collection of principal, interest and other payments on our existing portfolio of loans and leases, sales of assets, and unsecured and secured funding sources, including commercial paper, term debt, bank borrowings,
securitization and other retail funding products.      Our 2011 GECS funding plan anticipates repayment of principal on outstanding short-term borrowings,
including the current portion of our long-term debt ($118.8 billion at December 31, 2010), through issuance of commercial paper and long-term debt, cash on hand, collections of financing receivables exceeding originations, dispositions, asset
sales, and deposits and alternative sources of funding. Interest on borrowings is primarily repaid through interest earned on existing financing receivables. During 2010, GECS earned interest income on financing receivables of $24.1 billion, which
more than offset interest expense of $15.0 billion.   
         (62)   

Table of Contents  

   Both the GECS Board of Directors and the GE Audit Committee have approved a detailed liquidity policy for GECS which
includes a requirement to maintain a contingency funding plan. The liquidity policy defines GECS  liquidity risk tolerance under different scenarios based on its liquidity sources and also establishes procedures to escalate potential issues. We
actively monitor GECS  access to funding markets and liquidity profile through tracking external indicators and testing various stress scenarios. The contingency funding plan provides a framework for handling market disruptions and
establishes escalation procedures in the event that such events or circumstances arise.      Actions taken to strengthen and maintain our liquidity are
described in the following section.       Liquidity Sources       We maintain liquidity sources that consist of cash and equivalents and a portfolio of high-quality, liquid investments (Liquidity Portfolio) and committed unused credit lines.   
  We have cash and equivalents of $79.0 billion at December 31, 2010, which is available to meet our needs. A substantial portion of this is freely available.
About $10 billion is in regulated entities and is subject to regulatory restrictions or is in restricted countries. About $18 billion is held outside the U.S. and is available to fund operations and other growth of non-U.S. subsidiaries; it is also
available to fund our needs in the U.S. on a short-term basis without being subject to U.S. tax. We anticipate that we will continue to generate cash from operating activities in the future, which will be available to help meet our liquidity needs.
     In addition to our $79 billion of cash and equivalents, we have a centrally-managed portfolio of high-quality, liquid investments with a fair value of
$2.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The Liquidity Portfolio is used to manage liquidity and meet the operating needs of GECS under both normal and stress scenarios. The investments consist of unencumbered U.S. government securities, U.S. agency
securities, securities guaranteed by the government, supranational securities, and a select group of non-U.S. government securities. We believe that we can readily obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed market conditions.   
  We have committed, unused credit lines totaling $51.8 billion that have been extended to us by 58 financial institutions at December 31, 2010. These lines
include $35.6 billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can borrow funds for periods exceeding one year. Additionally, $16.2 billion are 364-day lines that contain a term-out feature that allows us to extend borrowings for one year from
the date of expiration of the lending agreement. During 2010, we renewed all of the 364-day lines and we extended the term of $23 billion of multi-year lines by one year to 2013.      At December 31, 2010, our aggregate cash and equivalents and committed credit lines were more than twice GECS  commercial paper borrowings balance.   
   Funding Plan       Our strategy has been to reduce our ending net
investment in GE Capital. In 2010, we reduced our GE Capital ending net investment, excluding cash and equivalents, from $526 billion at January 1, 2010 to $477 billion at December 31, 2010.   
  In 2010, we completed issuances of $25 billion of senior, unsecured debt with maturities up to 17 years (and subsequent to December 31, 2010, an additional
$11 billion). Average commercial paper borrowings for GECS and GE during the fourth quarter were $40.1 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively, and the maximum amount of commercial paper borrowings outstanding for GECS and GE during the fourth
quarter was $42.4 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively. GECS commercial paper maturities are funded principally through new issuances and at GE are repaid by quarter-end using available cash.   
         (63)   

Table of Contents  

   Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation s (FDIC) Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP), the FDIC
guaranteed certain senior, unsecured debt issued by GECC on or before October 31, 2009, for which we incurred $2.3 billion of fees for our participation. Our TLGP-guaranteed debt has remaining maturities of $18 billion in 2011 ($2.5 billion
matured in January 2011) and $35 billion in 2012. We anticipate funding these and our other long-term debt maturities through a combination of existing cash, new debt issuances, collections exceeding originations, dispositions, asset sales, deposits
and alternative sources of funding. GECC and GE are parties to an Eligible Entity Designation Agreement and GECC is subject to the terms of a Master Agreement, each entered into with the FDIC. The terms of these agreements include, among other
things, a requirement that GE and GECC reimburse the FDIC for any amounts that the FDIC pays to holders of GECC debt that is guaranteed by the FDIC.      We
securitize financial assets as an alternative source of funding. On January 1, 2010, we adopted ASU 2009-16   17, which resulted in the consolidation of $36.1 billion of non-recourse borrowings from all of our securitization QSPEs.
During 2010, we completed $10.3 billion of non-recourse issuances and had maturities of $22.3 billion. At December 31, 2010, consolidated non-recourse borrowings were $30.1 billion. We anticipate that securitization will remain a part of our
overall funding capabilities notwithstanding the changes in consolidation rules described in Notes 1 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report.      Our issuances of securities repurchase agreements are insignificant and are limited to activities at certain of our foreign banks. At
December 31, 2010 and 2009, we were party to repurchase agreements totaling insignificant amounts, which were accounted for as on-book financings. We have had no repurchase agreements which were not accounted for as financings and we do not
engage in securities lending transactions.      We have deposit-taking capability at 10 banks outside of the U.S. and two banks in the U.S.   GE Money
Bank, a Federal Savings Bank (FSB), and GE Capital Financial Inc., an industrial bank (IB). The FSB and IB currently issue certificates of deposit (CDs) distributed by brokers in maturity terms from three months to ten years.   
  Total alternative funding at December 31, 2010 was $60 billion, composed mainly of $37 billion bank deposits, $11 billion of funding secured by real estate,
aircraft and other collateral and $9 billion GE Interest Plus notes. The comparable amount at December 31, 2009 was $57 billion.       Exchange rate
and interest rate risks  are managed with a variety of techniques, including match funding and selective use of derivatives. We use derivatives to mitigate or eliminate certain financial and market risks because we conduct business in diverse
markets around the world and local funding is not always efficient. In addition, we use derivatives to adjust the debt we are issuing to match the fixed or floating nature of the assets we are originating. We apply strict policies to manage each of
these risks, including prohibitions on speculative activities. Following is an analysis of the potential effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates using so-called  shock  tests that model effects of shifts in rates.
These are not forecasts.       

It is our policy to minimize exposure to interest rate changes. We fund our financial investments using debt or a combination of debt and hedging instruments so
that the interest rates of our borrowings match the expected interest rate profile on our assets. To test the effectiveness of our fixed rate positions, we assumed that, on January 1, 2011, interest rates increased by 100 basis points across
the yield curve (a  parallel shift  in that curve) and further assumed that the increase remained in place for 2011. We estimated, based on the year-end 2010 portfolio and holding all other assumptions constant, that our 2011 consolidated
earnings would decline by $0.1 billion as a result of this parallel shift in the yield curve.         

It is our policy to minimize currency exposures and to conduct operations either within functional currencies or using the protection of hedge strategies. We
analyzed year-end 2010 consolidated currency exposures, including derivatives designated and effective as hedges, to identify assets and liabilities denominated in other than their relevant functional currencies. For such assets and liabilities, we
then evaluated the effects of a 10% shift in exchange rates between those currencies and the U.S. dollar, holding all other assumptions constant. This analysis indicated that there would be an insignificant effect on 2011 earnings of such a shift in
exchange rates.      
         (64)   

Table of Contents  

    Debt and Derivative Instruments, Guarantees and Covenants    
   Principal debt and derivative conditions  are described below.   
  Certain of our derivative instruments can be terminated if specified credit ratings are not maintained and certain debt and derivatives agreements of other
consolidated entities have provisions that are affected by these credit ratings. As of December 31, 2010, GE and GECC s long-term unsecured debt credit rating from Standard and Poor s Ratings Service (S P) was  AA+  with
a stable outlook and from Moody s Investors Service ( Moody s ) was  Aa2  with a stable outlook. As of December 31, 2010, GE, GECS and GECC s short-term credit rating from S P was  A-1+  and from
Moody s was  P-1 . We are disclosing these ratings to enhance understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. Although we currently do not expect a downgrade in the credit ratings, our
ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.      Derivatives agreements:      Swap, forward and option contracts are executed under standard master agreements that
typically contain mutual downgrade provisions that provide the ability of the counterparty to require termination if the long-term credit rating of the applicable GE entity were to fall below A-/A3. In certain of these master agreements, the
counterparty also has the ability to require termination if the short-term rating of the applicable GE entity were to fall below A-1/P-1. The net derivative liability after consideration of netting arrangements, outstanding interest payments and
collateral posted by us under these master agreements was estimated to be $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
of this Form 10-K Report.      Other debt and derivative agreements of consolidated entities:   

One group of consolidated entities holds investment securities funded by the issuance of GICs. If the long-term credit rating of GECC were to fall below AA-/Aa3
or its short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GECC would be required to provide approximately $1.5 billion to such entities as of December 31, 2010, pursuant to letters of credit issued by GECC, as compared to $2.4 billion at
December 31, 2009. Furthermore, to the extent that the entities  liabilities exceed the ultimate value of the proceeds from the sale of its assets and the amount drawn under the letters of credit, GECC is required to provide such excess
amount. As of December 31, 2010, the value of these entities  liabilities was $5.7 billion and the fair value of its assets was $6.0 billion (which included unrealized losses on investment securities of $0.7 billion). With respect to these
investment securities, we intend to hold them at least until such time as their individual fair values exceed their amortized cost and we have the ability to hold all such debt securities until maturity.     

Another consolidated entity also issues GICs where proceeds are loaned to GECC. If the long-term credit rating of GECC were to fall below AA-/Aa3 or its
short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GECC could be required to provide up to approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, to repay holders of GICs, compared to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009. These obligations
are included in long-term borrowings in our Statement of Financial Position in the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K
Report.         

If the short-term credit rating of GECC were reduced below A-1/P-1, GECC would be required to partially cash collateralize certain covered bonds. The maximum
amount that would be required to be provided in the event of such a downgrade is determined by contract and amounted to $0.8 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. These obligations are included in long-term borrowings in our Statement of
Financial Position in the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.      
         (65)   

Table of Contents  

    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges, Income Maintenance Agreement and Subordinated Debentures    
  On March 28, 1991, GE entered into an agreement with GECC to make payments to GECC, constituting additions to pre-tax income under the agreement, to the extent
necessary to cause the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GECC and consolidated affiliates (determined on a consolidated basis) to be not less than 1.10:1 for the period, as a single aggregation, of each GECC fiscal year commencing with fiscal
year 1991. GECC s ratio of earnings to fixed charges increased to 1.13:1 during 2010 due to higher pre-tax earnings at GECC, which were primarily driven by higher margins and lower provisions for losses on financing receivables.   
  On October 29, 2009, GE and GECC amended this agreement to extend the notice period for termination from three years to five years. It was further amended to
provide that any future amendments to the agreement that could adversely affect GECC require the consent of the majority of the holders of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of senior unsecured debt securities issued or guaranteed by GECC
(with an original stated maturity in excess of 270 days), unless the amendment does not trigger a downgrade of GECC s long-term ratings. No payment is required in 2011 pursuant to this agreement.   
  GE made a $9.5 billion payment to GECS in the first quarter of 2009 (of which $8.8 billion was further contributed to GECC through capital contribution and share
issuance) to improve tangible capital and reduce leverage. This payment constitutes an addition to pre-tax income under the agreement and therefore increased the ratio of earnings to fixed charges of GECC for the fiscal year 2009 for purposes of the
agreement to 1.33:1. As a result, no further payments under the agreement in 2010 were required related to 2009.      Any payment made under the Income
Maintenance Agreement will not affect the ratio of earnings to fixed charges as determined in accordance with current SEC rules because it does not constitute an addition to pre-tax income under current U.S. GAAP.   
  In addition, in connection with certain subordinated debentures for which GECC receives equity credit by rating agencies, GE has agreed to promptly return
dividends, distributions or other payments it receives from GECC during events of default or interest deferral periods under such subordinated debentures. There were $7.3 billion of such debentures outstanding at December 31, 2010. See Note 10
to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
   Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity    
  GE shareowners  equity increased by $1.6 billion in 2010, compared with an increase of $12.6 billion in 2009 and a decrease of $10.9 billion in 2008.
     Net earnings increased GE shareowners  equity by $11.6 billion, $11.0 billion and $17.4 billion, partially offset by dividends declared of $5.2
billion, $6.8 billion and $12.6 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      Elements of Other Comprehensive Income decreased shareowners  equity
by $2.3 billion in 2010, compared with an increase of $6.6 billion in 2009 and a decrease of $30.2 billion in 2008, inclusive of changes in accounting principles. The components of these changes are as follows:   

Changes in benefit plans increased shareowners  equity by $1.1 billion in 2010, primarily reflecting prior service cost and net actuarial loss amortization
and increases in the fair value of plans assets, partially offset by a decrease in the discount rate used to value pension and postretirement benefit obligations. This compared with decreases of $1.8 billion and $13.3 billion in 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The decrease in 2009 primarily related to a decrease in the discount rate used to value pension and postretirement benefit obligations. The decrease in 2008 primarily related to declines in the fair value of plan assets as a result of
market conditions and adverse changes in the economic environment. Further information about changes in benefit plans is provided in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.     
         (66)   

Table of Contents  

Currency translation adjustments decreased shareowners  equity by $3.9 billion in 2010, increased equity by $4.1 billion in 2009 and decreased equity by
$11.0 billion in 2008. Changes in currency translation adjustments reflect the effects of changes in currency exchange rates on our net investment in non-U.S. subsidiaries that have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. At the end of
2010, the U.S. dollar was stronger against most major currencies, including the pound sterling and the euro and weaker against the Australian dollar, compared with a weaker dollar against those currencies at the end of 2009 and a stronger dollar
against those currencies at the end of 2008. The dollar was weaker against the Japanese yen in 2008.         

The change in fair value of investment securities increased shareowners  equity by an insignificant amount in 2010, reflecting improved market conditions
related to U.S. corporate securities and lower market interest rates and adjustments to reflect the effect of the unrealized gains on insurance-related assets and equity. The change in fair value of investment securities increased shareowners 
equity by $2.7 billion and decreased shareowner s equity by $3.2 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Further information about investment securities is provided in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.          

Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges increased shareowners  equity by $0.5 billion in 2010, primarily related to the
effective portion of the change in fair value of designated interest rate and cross currency hedges and other comprehensive income (OCI) released to earnings to match the underlying forecasted cash flows. The change in the fair value of derivatives
designated as cash flow hedges increased equity by $1.6 billion and decreased equity by $2.7 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Further information about the fair value of derivatives is provided in Note 22 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.        We took a number
of actions in 2008 and 2009 to strengthen our liquidity. Such actions also had an effect on shareowners  equity, which included a $15 billion addition to equity through common and preferred stock offerings in the fourth quarter of 2008.
      Statement of Cash Flows   Overview from 2008 through 2010       Consolidated cash and equivalents were $79.0 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of $8.5 billion from December 31, 2009. Cash and equivalents totaled $70.5 billion at December 31, 2009, an
increase of $22.4 billion from December 31, 2008.      We evaluate our cash flow performance by reviewing our industrial (non-financial services)
businesses and financial services businesses separately. Cash from operating activities (CFOA) is the principal source of cash generation for our industrial businesses. The industrial businesses also have liquidity available via the public capital
markets. Our financial services businesses use a variety of financial resources to meet our capital needs. Cash for financial services businesses is primarily provided from the issuance of term debt and commercial paper in the public and private
markets, as well as financing receivables collections, sales and securitizations.       GE Cash Flow    
  GE cash and equivalents were $19.2 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $8.7 billion at December 31, 2009. GE CFOA totaled $14.7 billion in 2010
compared with $16.4 billion and $19.1 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. With respect to GE CFOA, we believe that it is useful to supplement our GE Statement of Cash Flows and to examine in a broader context the business activities that provide
and require cash.   
         (67)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  GE sells customer receivables to GECS in part to fund the growth of our industrial businesses. These transactions can result in cash generation or cash use. During any given
period, GE receives cash from the sale of receivables to GECS. It also foregoes collection of cash on receivables sold. The incremental amount of cash received from sale of receivables in excess of the cash GE would have otherwise collected had
those receivables not been sold, represents the cash generated or used in the period relating to this activity. The incremental cash generated in GE CFOA from selling these receivables to GECS increased GE CFOA by $0.3 billion and an insignificant
amount in 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report for additional information about the elimination of
intercompany transactions between GE and GECS.        The most significant source of cash in GE CFOA is customer-related activities, the largest
of which is collecting cash following a product or services sale. GE operating cash collections decreased by $5.9 billion in 2010 and decreased by $11.4 billion in 2009. These changes are consistent with the changes in comparable GE operating
segment revenues. Analyses of operating segment revenues discussed in the preceding Segment Operations section are the best way of understanding their customer-related CFOA.      The most significant operating use of cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, tax authorities and others for a wide range of material and services. GE operating cash payments decreased in 2010 and 2009 by $4.2
billion and $11.1 billion, respectively. These changes are consistent with the changes in GE total costs and expenses.      GE CFOA decreased $1.7 billion
compared with 2009, primarily reflecting a decrease in progress collections compared to 2009. In 2009, GE CFOA decreased $2.7 billion compared with 2008, primarily reflecting the lack of a dividend from GECS ($2.4 billion).   
  Dividends from GECS represented the distribution of a portion of GECS retained earnings and are distinct from cash from continuing operating activities within the
financial services businesses. The amounts included in GE CFOA are the total dividends, including normal dividends as well as any special dividends from excess capital, primarily resulting from GECS business sales. Beginning in the first quarter of
2009, GECS suspended its normal dividend to GE. There were no special dividends received from GECS in 2010, 2009 or 2008.       GECS Cash Flow
      GECS cash and equivalents were $60.3 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with $62.6 billion at December 31, 2009. GECS cash from
operating activities totaled $21.2 billion in 2010, compared with $7.4 billion in 2009. This was primarily due to decreases, compared to the prior year, in net cash collateral held from counterparties on derivative contracts of $6.9 billion, in cash
used for other liabilities of $1.5 billion, higher current-year earnings, and lower gains and higher impairments at Real Estate of $2.9 billion.   
  Consistent with our plan to reduce GECS asset levels, cash from investing activities was $36.4 billion in 2010. Primary sources were $26.3 billion resulting from a
reduction in financing receivables, primarily from collections exceeding originations, a $1.8 billion reduction in investment securities, and $1.6 billion of recoveries of financing receivables previously written off. Additionally, we received
proceeds of $2.5 billion from sales of discontinued operations, primarily BAC, and $1.2 billion resulted from proceeds from business dispositions, including the consumer businesses in Hong Kong and Indonesia. These sources were partially offset by
cash used for acquisitions of $0.6 billion for the acquisition of certain financing businesses of the Royal Bank of Scotland.      GECS cash used for
financing activities in 2010 reflected our continued reduction in ending net investment. Cash used for financing activities of $59.6 billion related primarily to a $60.3 billion reduction in borrowings consisting primarily of reductions in long-term
borrowings (which includes reductions related to borrowings consolidated upon the adoption of ASU 2009-16   17) and commercial paper, partially offset by a $4.6 billion increase in bank deposits.   
         (68)   

Table of Contents  

   GECS pays dividends to GE through a distribution of its retained earnings, including special dividends from proceeds
of certain business sales. Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, GECS suspended its normal dividend to GE. Dividends paid to GE in 2008 were $2.4 billion. There were no special dividends paid to GE in 2010, 2009 or 2008.   
   Intercompany Eliminations       Effects of transactions between
related companies are eliminated and consist primarily of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and
equipment (including automobiles) leased between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for
lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. For further information related to intercompany eliminations see Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       Contractual Obligations    
  As defined by reporting regulations, our contractual obligations for future payments as of December 31, 2010, follow.   

(a)  
  Included all take-or-pay arrangements, capital expenditures, contractual commitments to purchase equipment that will be leased to others, contractual commitments related to
factoring agreements, software acquisition/license commitments, contractual minimum programming commitments and any contractually required cash payments for acquisitions.     

(b)  
  Excluded funding commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business by our financial services businesses. Further information on these commitments and other guarantees
is provided in Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.     

(c)  
  Included contracts with reasonably determinable cash flows such as structured settlements, certain property and casualty contracts, and guaranteed investment contracts.

(d)  
  Included an estimate of future expected funding requirements related to our pension and postretirement benefit plans and included liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits.
Because their future cash outflows are uncertain, the following non-current liabilities are excluded from the table above: deferred taxes, derivatives, deferred revenue and other sundry items. For further information on certain of these items, see
Notes 14 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.     

(e)  
  Included payments for other liabilities.         Variable Interest
Entities       We securitize financial assets and arrange other forms of asset-backed financing in the ordinary course of business to improve shareowner
returns and as an alternative source of funding. The securitization transactions we engage in are similar to those used by many financial institutions.   
         (69)   

Table of Contents  

   The assets we securitize include: receivables secured by equipment, commercial real estate, credit card receivables,
floorplan inventory receivables, GE trade receivables and other assets originated and underwritten by us in the ordinary course of business. The securitizations are funded with asset-backed commercial paper and term debt. Our securitization
activities prior to January 1, 2010 used QSPEs and were therefore not required to be consolidated.      On January 1, 2010, we adopted ASU
2009-16   17. ASU 2009-16 eliminated the QSPE concept, and ASU 2009-17 required that all such entities be evaluated for consolidation as Variable Interest Entities (VIEs). Adoption of these amendments resulted in the consolidation of all of
our sponsored QSPEs. In addition, we consolidated assets of VIEs related to direct investments in entities that hold loans and fixed income securities, a media joint venture and a small number of companies to which we have extended loans in the
ordinary course of business and subsequently were subject to a TDR.      Substantially all of our securitization VIEs are consolidated because we are
considered to be the primary beneficiary of the entity. Our interests in other VIEs for which we are not the primary beneficiary and QSPEs are accounted for as investment securities, financing receivables or equity method investments depending on
the nature of our involvement.      We consolidated the assets and liabilities of these entities at amounts at which they would have been reported in our
financial statements had we always consolidated them. We also deconsolidated certain entities where we did not meet the definition of the primary beneficiary under the revised guidance; however the effect was insignificant at January 1, 2010.
The incremental effect on total assets and liabilities, net of our retained interests, was an increase of $31.1 billion and $33.0 billion respectively, at January 1, 2010. The net reduction of total equity (including noncontrolling interests)
was $1.9 billion at January 1, 2010, principally related to the reversal of previously recognized securitization gains as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings.      At December 31, 2010, consolidated variable interest entity assets and liabilities were $50.7 billion and $38.3 billion, respectively, an increase of $33.7 billion and $23.1 billion from 2009, respectively.
Assets held by these entities are of equivalent credit quality to our on-book assets. We monitor the underlying credit quality in accordance with our role as servicer and apply rigorous controls to the execution of securitization transactions. With
the exception of credit and liquidity support discussed below, investors in these entities have recourse only to the underlying assets.      At
December 31, 2009, prior to the effective date of ASU 2009-16   17, our Statement of Financial Position included $11.8 billion in retained interests in these entities related to the transferred financial assets discussed above. These
retained interests took two forms: (1) sellers  interests, which were classified as financing receivables, and (2) subordinated interests, designed to provide credit enhancement to senior interests, which were classified as investment
securities. The carrying value of our retained interests classified as financing receivables was $3.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The carrying value of our retained interests classified as investment securities was $8.8 billion at
December 31, 2009.      At December 31, 2010, investments in unconsolidated VIEs, including our noncontrolling interest in PTL and investments in
real estate entities, were $12.6 billion, an increase of $2.9 billion from 2009, primarily related to $1.7 billion of investments in entities whose status as a VIE changed upon adoption of ASU 2009-17 and $1.2 billion of additional investment in
pre-existing unconsolidated VIEs. In addition to our existing investments, we have contractual obligations to fund additional investments in the unconsolidated VIEs of $2.0 billion, an increase of $0.6 billion from 2009.   
  We are party to various credit enhancement positions with securitization entities, including liquidity and credit support agreements and guarantee and
reimbursement contracts, and have provided our best estimate of the fair value of estimated losses on such positions. The estimate of fair value is based on prevailing market conditions at December 31, 2010. Should market conditions
deteriorate, actual losses could be higher. Our exposure to loss under such agreements was limited to $0.9 billion at December 31, 2010.      We do not
have implicit support arrangements with any VIE or QSPE. We did not provide non-contractual support for previously transferred financing receivables to any VIE or QSPE in either 2010 or 2009.   
         (70)   

Table of Contents  

    Critical Accounting Estimates       Accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because they involve significant judgments and
uncertainties. Many of these estimates include determining fair value. All of these estimates reflect our best judgment about current, and for some estimates future, economic and market conditions and their effects based on information available as
of the date of these financial statements. If these conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described below could change, which may result in future impairments of investment securities,
goodwill, intangibles and long-lived assets, incremental losses on financing receivables, increases in reserves for contingencies, establishment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax liabilities, among other effects. Also
see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, which discusses the significant accounting
policies that we have selected from acceptable alternatives.       Losses on financing receivables  are recognized when they are incurred, which
requires us to make our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. The method for calculating the best estimate of losses depends on the size, type and risk characteristics of the related financing receivable. Such an estimate
requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions such as delinquency rates, financial health of
specific customers and market sectors, collateral values (including housing price indices as applicable), and the present and expected future levels of interest rates. The underlying assumptions, estimates and assessments we use to provide for
losses are updated periodically to reflect our view of current conditions. Changes in such estimates can significantly affect the allowance and provision for losses. It is possible that we will experience credit losses that are different from our
current estimates. Write-offs in both our consumer and commercial portfolios can also reflect both losses that are incurred subsequent to the beginning of a fiscal year and information becoming available during that fiscal year which may identify
further deterioration on exposures existing prior to the beginning of that fiscal year, and for which reserves could not have been previously recognized. Our risk management process includes standards and policies for reviewing major risk exposures
and concentrations, and evaluates relevant data either for individual loans or financing leases, or on a portfolio basis, as appropriate.      Further
information is provided in the Global Risk Management section and Financial Resources and Liquidity   Financing Receivables section of this Item, the Asset impairment section that follows and in Notes 1, 6 and 23 to the consolidated financial
statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       Revenue recognition on
long-term product services agreements  requires estimates of profits over the multiple-year terms of such agreements, considering factors such as the frequency and extent of future monitoring, maintenance and overhaul events; the amount of
personnel, spare parts and other resources required to perform the services; and future billing rate and cost changes. We routinely review estimates under product services agreements and regularly revise them to adjust for changes in outlook. We
also regularly assess customer credit risk inherent in the carrying amounts of receivables and contract costs and estimated earnings, including the risk that contractual penalties may not be sufficient to offset our accumulated investment in the
event of customer termination. We gain insight into future utilization and cost trends, as well as credit risk, through our knowledge of the installed base of equipment and the close interaction with our customers that comes with supplying critical
services and parts over extended periods. Revisions that affect a product services agreement s total estimated profitability result in an adjustment of earnings; such adjustments decreased earnings by $0.2 billion in 2010, increased earnings by
$0.2 billion in 2009 and decreased earnings by $0.2 billion in 2008. We provide for probable losses when they become evident.      Further information is
provided in Notes 1 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (71)   

Table of Contents  

    Asset impairment  assessment involves various estimates and assumptions as follows:   
   Investments.  We regularly review investment securities for impairment using both quantitative and qualitative criteria. Effective April 1, 2009, the
FASB amended ASC 320 and modified the requirements for recognizing and measuring other-than-temporary impairment for debt securities. If we do not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the
security before recovery of our amortized cost, we evaluate other qualitative criteria to determine whether a credit loss exists, such as the financial health of and specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer is in compliance
with the terms and covenants of the security. Quantitative criteria include determining whether there has been an adverse change in expected future cash flows. For equity securities, our criteria include the length of time and magnitude of the
amount that each security is in an unrealized loss position. Our other-than-temporary impairment reviews involve our finance, risk and asset management functions as well as the portfolio management and research capabilities of our internal and
third-party asset managers. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, which discusses the determination of fair value of investment
securities.      Further information about actual and potential impairment losses is provided in the Financial Resources and Liquidity   Investment
Securities section of this Item and in Notes 1, 3 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
   Long-Lived Assets.  We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not
be recoverable. Determining whether an impairment has occurred typically requires various estimates and assumptions, including determining which undiscounted cash flows are directly related to the potentially impaired asset, the useful life over
which cash flows will occur, their amount, and the asset s residual value, if any. In turn, measurement of an impairment loss requires a determination of fair value, which is based on the best information available. We derive the required
undiscounted cash flow estimates from our historical experience and our internal business plans. To determine fair value, we use quoted market prices when available, our internal cash flow estimates discounted at an appropriate interest rate and
independent appraisals, as appropriate.      Our operating lease portfolio of commercial aircraft is a significant concentration of assets in GE Capital,
and is particularly subject to market fluctuations. Therefore, we test recoverability of each aircraft in our operating lease portfolio at least annually. Additionally, we perform quarterly evaluations in circumstances such as when aircraft are
re-leased, current lease terms have changed or a specific lessee s credit standing changes. We consider market conditions, such as global demand for commercial aircraft. Estimates of future rentals and residual values are based on historical
experience and information received routinely from independent appraisers. Estimated cash flows from future leases are reduced for expected downtime between leases and for estimated technical costs required to prepare aircraft to be redeployed. Fair
value used to measure impairment is based on management s best estimate. In determining its best estimate, management evaluates average current market values (obtained from third parties) of similar type and age aircraft, which are adjusted for
the attributes of the specific aircraft under lease.      We recognized impairment losses on our operating lease portfolio of commercial aircraft of $0.4
billion and $0.1 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Provisions for losses on financing receivables related to commercial aircraft were insignificant and $0.1 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Further information on impairment losses and our exposure to the commercial aviation industry is provided in the Operations   Overview section of this Item
and in Notes 7 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (72)   

Table of Contents  

    Real Estate.  We review the estimated value of our commercial real estate investments semi-annually. The cash
flow estimates used for both estimating value and the recoverability analysis are inherently judgmental, and reflect current and projected lease profiles, available industry information about expected trends in rental, occupancy and capitalization
rates and expected business plans, which include our estimated holding period for the asset. Our portfolio is diversified, both geographically and by asset type. However, the global real estate market is subject to periodic cycles that can cause
significant fluctuations in market values. As of our most recent estimate performed in 2010, the carrying value of our Real Estate investments exceeded their estimated value by about $5.1 billion. The estimated value of the portfolio continues to
reflect deterioration in real estate values and market fundamentals, including reduced market occupancy rates and market rents as well as the effects of limited real estate market liquidity. Given the current and expected challenging market
conditions, there continues to be risk and uncertainty surrounding commercial real estate values. Declines in the estimated value of real estate below carrying amount result in impairment losses when the aggregate undiscounted cash flow estimates
used in the estimated value measurement are below the carrying amount. As such, estimated losses in the portfolio will not necessarily result in recognized impairment losses. When we recognize an impairment, the impairment is measured using the
estimated fair value of the underlying asset, which is based upon cash flow estimates that reflect current and projected lease profiles and available industry information about capitalization rates and expected trends in rents and occupancy and is
corroborated by external appraisals. During 2010, Real Estate recognized pre-tax impairments of $2.3 billion in its real estate held for investment, as compared to $0.8 billion in 2009. Continued deterioration in economic conditions or prolonged
market illiquidity may result in further impairments being recognized. Furthermore, significant judgment and uncertainty related to forecasted valuation trends, especially in illiquid markets, results in inherent imprecision in real estate value
estimates. Further information is provided in the Global Risk Management and the All other assets section of this Item and in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       Goodwill and Other Identified Intangible Assets.  We test goodwill for impairment annually and more
frequently if circumstances warrant. We determine fair values for each of the reporting units using an income approach. When available and appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. For purposes of
the income approach, fair value is determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and include an estimate of
long-term future growth rates based on our most recent views of the long-term outlook for each business. Actual results may differ from those assumed in our forecasts. We derive our discount rates using a capital asset pricing model and analyzing
published rates for industries relevant to our reporting units to estimate the cost of equity financing. We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective businesses and in our internally developed
forecasts. Discount rates used in our reporting unit valuations ranged from 9% to 14.5%. Valuations using the market approach reflect prices and other relevant observable information generated by market transactions involving comparable businesses.
     Compared to the market approach, the income approach more closely aligns each reporting unit valuation to our business profile, including geographic
markets served and product offerings. Required rates of return, along with uncertainty inherent in the forecasts of future cash flows, are reflected in the selection of the discount rate. Equally important, under this approach, reasonably likely
scenarios and associated sensitivities can be developed for alternative future states that may not be reflected in an observable market price. A market approach allows for comparison to actual market transactions and multiples. It can be somewhat
more limited in its application because the population of potential comparables is often limited to publicly-traded companies where the characteristics of the comparative business and ours can be significantly different, market data is usually not
available for divisions within larger conglomerates or non-public subsidiaries that could otherwise qualify as comparable, and the specific circumstances surrounding a market transaction (e.g., synergies between the parties, terms and conditions of
the transaction, etc.) may be different or irrelevant with respect to our business. It can also be difficult, under certain market conditions, to identify orderly transactions between market participants in similar businesses. We assess the
valuation methodology based upon the relevance and availability of the data at the time we perform the valuation and weight the methodologies appropriately.   
         (73)   

Table of Contents  

   We performed our annual impairment test of goodwill for all of our reporting units in the third quarter using data as
of July 1, 2010. The impairment test consists of two steps: in step one, the carrying value of the reporting unit is compared with its fair value; in step two, which is applied when the carrying value is more than its fair value, the amount of
goodwill impairment, if any, is derived by deducting the fair value of the reporting unit s assets and liabilities from the fair value of its equity, and comparing that amount with the carrying amount of goodwill. In performing the valuations,
we used cash flows that reflected management s forecasts and discount rates that included risk adjustments consistent with the current market conditions. Based on the results of our step one testing, the fair values of each of the GE Industrial
reporting units and the CLL, Consumer, Energy Financial Services and GECAS reporting units exceeded their carrying values; therefore, the second step of the impairment test was not required to be performed and no goodwill impairment was recognized.
     Our Real Estate reporting unit had a goodwill balance of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2010. As of July 1, 2010, the carrying amount exceeded
the estimated fair value of our Real Estate reporting unit by approximately $3.2 billion. The estimated fair value of the Real Estate reporting unit is based on a number of assumptions about future business performance and investment, including loss
estimates for the existing finance receivable and investment portfolio, new debt origination volume and margins, and anticipated stabilization of the real estate market allowing for sales of real estate investments at normalized margins. Our assumed
discount rate was 12% and was derived by applying a capital asset pricing model and corroborated using equity analyst research reports and implied cost of equity based on forecasted price to earnings per share multiples for similar companies. Given
the volatility and uncertainty in the current commercial real estate environment, there is uncertainty about a number of assumptions upon which the estimated fair value is based. Different loss estimates for the existing portfolio, changes in the
new debt origination volume and margin assumptions, changes in the expected pace of the commercial real estate market recovery, or changes in the equity return expectation of market participants may result in changes in the estimated fair value of
the Real Estate reporting unit.      Based on the results of the step one testing, we performed the second step of the impairment test described above.
Based on the results of the second step analysis for the Real Estate reporting unit, the estimated implied fair value of goodwill exceeded the carrying value of goodwill by approximately $3.5 billion. Accordingly, no goodwill impairment was
required. In the second step, unrealized losses in an entity s assets have the effect of increasing the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. The results of the second step analysis were attributable to several factors. The primary driver
was the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of our Real Estate Equity Investments, which approximated $6.3 billion at that time. Further information about the Real Estate investment portfolio is provided in the Financial
Resources and Liquidity   Statement of Financial Position   All other assets of this Item. Other drivers for the favorable outcome include the unrealized losses in the Real Estate finance receivable portfolio and the fair value premium on
the Real Estate reporting unit allocated debt. The results of the second step analysis are highly sensitive to these measurements, as well as the key assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value of the Real Estate reporting unit.
     Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including
actual operating results. If current conditions persist longer or deteriorate further than expected, it is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods.   
  We review identified intangible assets with defined useful lives and subject to amortization for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires comparing the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We test intangible assets
with indefinite lives annually for impairment using a fair value method such as discounted cash flows. For our insurance activities remaining in continuing operations, we periodically test for impairment our deferred acquisition costs and present
value of future profits.      Further information is provided in the Financial Resources and Liquidity   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets section
of this Item and in Notes 1 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (74)   

Table of Contents  

    Pension assumptions  are significant inputs to the actuarial models that measure pension benefit obligations and
related effects on operations. Two assumptions   discount rate and expected return on assets   are important elements of plan expense and asset/liability measurement. We evaluate these critical assumptions at least annually on a plan and
country-specific basis. We periodically evaluate other assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age, mortality and turnover, and update them to reflect our experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given
year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors.      Accumulated and projected benefit obligations are measured as
the present value of future cash payments. We discount those cash payments using the weighted average of market-observed yields for high quality fixed income securities with maturities that correspond to the payment of benefits. Lower discount rates
increase present values and subsequent-year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease present values and subsequent-year pension expense.      Our
discount rates for principal pension plans at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 5.28%, 5.78% and 6.11%, respectively, reflecting market interest rates.      To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In
developing future return expectations for our principal benefit plans  assets, we evaluate general market trends as well as key elements of asset class returns such as expected earnings growth, yields and spreads. Assets in our principal
pension plans earned 13.5% in 2010, and had average annual earnings of 4.1%, 7.9% and 9.5% per year in the 10-, 15- and 25-year periods ended December 31, 2010, respectively. These average historical returns were significantly affected by
investment losses in 2008. Based on our analysis of future expectations of asset performance, past return results, and our current and expected asset allocations, we have assumed an 8.0% long-term expected return on those assets for cost recognition
in 2011. This is a reduction from the 8.5% we had assumed in 2010, 2009 and 2008.      Changes in key assumptions for our principal pension plans would have
the following effects.       

Discount rate   A 25 basis point increase in discount rate would decrease pension cost in the following year by $0.2 billion and would decrease the pension
benefit obligation at year-end by about $1.5 billion.         

Expected return on assets   A 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on assets would increase pension cost in the following year by $0.2
billion.        Further information on our pension plans is provided in the Operations   Overview section of this Item and in Note 12 to
the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (75)   

Table of Contents  

    Income Taxes . Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities
available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax
expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Our income tax rate is significantly affected by the tax rate on our
global operations. In addition to local country tax laws and regulations, this rate depends on the extent earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management s judgment about and
intentions concerning the future operations of the company. At December 31, 2010, $94 billion of earnings have been indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Most of these earnings have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business
operations, and we do not intend to repatriate these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Because of the availability of U.S. foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be payable if such
earnings were not reinvested indefinitely. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all
sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. We use our historical experience and our short and long-range
business forecasts to provide insight. Further, our global and diversified business portfolio gives us the opportunity to employ various prudent and feasible tax planning strategies to facilitate the recoverability of future deductions. Amounts
recorded for deferred tax assets related to non-U.S. net operating losses, net of valuation allowances, were $4.4 billion and $3.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, including $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively, of deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, associated with losses reported in discontinued operations, primarily related to our loss on the sale of GE Money Japan. Such year-end 2010 amounts are expected to be
fully recoverable within the applicable statutory expiration periods. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established.   
  Further information on income taxes is provided in the Operations   Overview section of this Item and in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in
Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.       Derivatives and Hedging.  We use
derivatives to manage a variety of risks, including risks related to interest rates, foreign exchange and commodity prices. Accounting for derivatives as hedges requires that, at inception and over the term of the arrangement, the hedged item and
related derivative meet the requirements for hedge accounting. The rules and interpretations related to derivatives accounting are complex. Failure to apply this complex guidance correctly will result in all changes in the fair value of the
derivative being reported in earnings, without regard to the offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item.      In evaluating whether a
particular relationship qualifies for hedge accounting, we test effectiveness at inception and each reporting period thereafter by determining whether changes in the fair value of the derivative offset, within a specified range, changes in the fair
value of the hedged item. If fair value changes fail this test, we discontinue applying hedge accounting to that relationship prospectively. Fair values of both the derivative instrument and the hedged item are calculated using internal valuation
models incorporating market-based assumptions, subject to third-party confirmation, as applicable.      At December 31, 2010, derivative assets and
liabilities were $7.5 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively. Further information about our use of derivatives is provided in Notes 1, 9, 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (76)   

Table of Contents  

    Fair Value Measurements.  Assets and liabilities measured at fair value every reporting period include
investments in debt and equity securities and derivatives. Assets that are not measured at fair value every reporting period but that are subject to fair value measurements in certain circumstances include loans and long-lived assets that have been
reduced to fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that have been reduced based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, cost and equity method investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair value when they are
impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in formerly consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in control that results in deconsolidation of a subsidiary, if we sell a controlling interest and retain a noncontrolling stake in the entity.
Assets that are written down to fair value when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently adjusted to fair value unless further impairment occurs.      A fair value measurement is determined as the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In the absence of
active markets for the identical assets or liabilities, such measurements involve developing assumptions based on market observable data and, in the absence of such data, internal information that is consistent with what market participants would
use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date. The determination of fair value often involves significant judgments about assumptions such as determining an appropriate discount rate that factors in both risk and liquidity
premiums, identifying the similarities and differences in market transactions, weighting those differences accordingly and then making the appropriate adjustments to those market transactions to reflect the risks specific to our asset being valued.
Further information on fair value measurements is provided in Notes 1, 21 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
   Other loss contingencies  are uncertain and unresolved matters that arise in the ordinary course of business and result from events or actions by others that
have the potential to result in a future loss. Such contingencies include, but are not limited to environmental obligations, litigation, regulatory proceedings, product quality and losses resulting from other events and developments.   
  When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss. When there appears to
be a range of possible costs with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the low end of such range. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict and determining a meaningful estimate of
the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. Moreover, it is not
uncommon for such matters to be resolved over many years, during which time relevant developments and new information must be continuously evaluated to determine both the likelihood of potential loss and whether it is possible to reasonably estimate
a range of possible loss. When a loss is probable but a reasonable estimate cannot be made, disclosure is provided.      Disclosure also is provided when it
is reasonably possible that a loss will be incurred or when it is reasonably possible that the amount of a loss will exceed the recorded provision. We regularly review all contingencies to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to
assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or range of loss can be made. As discussed above, development of a meaningful estimate of loss or a range of potential loss is complex when the outcome is directly dependent on negotiations with or
decisions by third parties, such as regulatory agencies, the court system and other interested parties. Such factors bear directly on whether it is possible to reasonably estimate a range of potential loss and boundaries of high and low estimates.
     Further information is provided in Notes 13 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (77)   

Table of Contents  

    Other Information        New Accounting Standards       In September 2009, the FASB issued amendments to existing standards for revenue
arrangements with multiple components. ASU 2009-13 requires the allocation of consideration to separate components based on the relative selling price of each component in a revenue arrangement. ASU 2009-14 requires certain software-enabled products
to be accounted for under the general accounting standards for multiple component arrangements as opposed to accounting standards specifically applicable to software arrangements. The amendments are effective prospectively for revenue arrangements
entered into or materially modified after January 1, 2011. The impact of adopting these amendments is expected to be insignificant to our financial statements.       Research and Development       GE-funded research and development expenditures were $3.9 billion, $3.3 billion and
$3.1 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Technology
Infrastructure s Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GE s research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructure s Energy business and Technology Infrastructure s
Healthcare business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE.      Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and
development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology. These technology expenditures were $5.9 billion in 2010 and included our
reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our plants, equipment and processes.       Orders Backlog       GE s total backlog of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2010 was $66.7 billion, a
decrease of 1% from year-end 2009, reflecting decreased demand at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.0 billion related to products, of which 59% was scheduled for delivery
in 2011. Product services orders, included in this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $20.6 billion at the end of 2010. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were approximately $108.7 billion, which combined
with the firm unfilled orders described above resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175.4 billion at December 31, 2010. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See
the Segment Operations section of this Item for further information.       Supplemental Information    
   Financial Measures that Supplement Generally Accepted Accounting Principles       We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain
of these data are considered  non-GAAP financial measures  under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. Specifically, we have referred, in various sections of this Form 10-K Report, to:   

Industrial cash flow from operating activities (Industrial CFOA)      

Industrial and Infrastructure revenues         

Industrial and Infrastructure earnings         

Average GE shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations     
         (78)   

Table of Contents  

Ratio of debt to equity at GECS, net of cash and equivalents and with classification of hybrid debt as equity     

Ratio of debt to equity at GECC, net of cash and equivalents and with classification of hybrid debt as equity      

GE Capital ending net investment (ENI), excluding cash and equivalents      

GE pre-tax earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECS earnings from continuing operations, the corresponding effective tax rates and the reconciliation
of the U.S. federal statutory rate to those effective tax rates         The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the
reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures follow.       
    We refer to cash generated by our industrial businesses as  Industrial CFOA,  which we define as GE s cash from
operating activities less the amount of dividends received by GE from GECS. This includes the effects of intercompany transactions, including GE customer receivables sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material
procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from
third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs. We believe that investors may find it useful to compare GE s operating cash flows without the effect of GECS dividends,
since these dividends are not representative of the operating cash flows of our industrial businesses and can vary from period to period based upon the results of the financial services businesses. Management recognizes that this measure may not be
comparable to cash flow results of companies which contain both industrial and financial services businesses, but believes that this comparison is aided by the provision of additional information about the amounts of dividends paid by our financial
services business and the separate presentation in our financial statements of the Financial Services (GECS) cash flows. We believe that our measure of Industrial CFOA provides management and investors with a useful measure to compare the capacity
of our industrial operations to generate operating cash flow with the operating cash flow of other non-financial businesses and companies and as such provides a useful measure to supplement the reported GAAP CFOA measure.   

(79)   

Table of Contents  

We have provided segment revenues and profit excluding the revenues and earnings of our financial services segment, GE Capital, which
we refer to as  Industrial revenues  and  Industrial earnings , and excluding GE Capital and our media business, NBCU, which we refer to as  Infrastructure revenues  and  Infrastructure earnings . We believe
these are useful comparisons because they provide investors with information on the results of our industrial businesses, with and without the NBCU business, which is classified as a business held for sale at December 31, 2010. We believe that these
measures, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measures, provide management and investors with additional information for comparison to other industrial businesses.       Average GE Shareowners  Equity, Excluding Effects of Discontinued Operations(a)        

(a)  
  Used for computing return on average GE shareowners  equity and return on average total capital invested (ROTC).     

(b)  
  On an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average.        Our
ROTC calculation excludes earnings (losses) of discontinued operations from the numerator because U.S. GAAP requires us to display those earnings (losses) in the Statement of Earnings. Our calculation of average GE shareowners  equity may not
be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. We believe that it is a clearer way to measure the ongoing trend in return on total capital for the continuing operations of our businesses given the extent that
discontinued operations have affected our reported results. We believe that this results in a more relevant measure for management and investors to evaluate performance of our continuing operations, on a consistent basis, and to evaluate and compare
the performance of our continuing operations with the ongoing operations of other businesses and companies.      Definitions indicating how the above-named
ratios are calculated using average GE shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, can be found in the Glossary.   
         (80)   

Table of Contents  

    Ratio of Debt to Equity at GECS, Net of Cash and Equivalents and with Classification    
   of Hybrid Debt as Equity        
     Ratio of Debt to Equity at GECC, Net of Cash and
Equivalents and with Classification        of Hybrid Debt as Equity    
   
    We have provided the GECS and GECC ratio of debt to
equity on a basis that reflects the use of cash and equivalents to reduce debt, and with long-term debt due in 2066 and 2067 classified as equity. We believe that this is a useful comparison to a GAAP-based ratio of debt to equity because cash
balances may be used to reduce debt and because this long-term debt has equity-like characteristics. The usefulness of this supplemental measure may be limited, however, as the total amount of cash and equivalents at any point in time may be
different than the amount that could practically be applied to reduce outstanding debt, and it may not be advantageous or practical to replace certain long-term debt with equity. In the first quarter of 2009, GE made a $9.5 billion payment to GECS
(of which $8.8 billion was further contributed to GECC through capital contribution and share issuance). Despite these potential limitations, we believe that this measure, considered along with the corresponding GAAP measure, provides investors with
additional information that may be more comparable to other financial institutions and businesses.       GE Capital Ending Net Investment (ENI), Excluding
Cash and Equivalents        
 
         (81)   

Table of Contents  

   We use ENI to measure the size of our GE Capital segment. We believe that this measure is a useful indicator of the
capital (debt or equity) required to fund a business as it adjusts for non-interest bearing current liabilities generated in the normal course of business that do not require a capital outlay. We also believe that by excluding cash and equivalents,
we provide a meaningful measure of assets requiring capital to fund our GE Capital segment, as a substantial amount of this cash and equivalents resulted from debt issuances to pre-fund future debt maturities and will not be used to fund additional
assets. Providing this measure will help investors measure how we are performing against our previously communicated goal to reduce the size of our financial services segment.       GE Pre-Tax Earnings from Continuing Operations, Excluding        GECS Earnings from Continuing Operations and the
Corresponding Effective Tax Rates        
     Reconciliation of U.S. Federal Statutory Income Tax Rate to
GE        Effective Tax Rate, Excluding GECS Earnings        
    We believe that the GE effective tax rate is best analyzed in relation to GE earnings before income taxes excluding the GECS net
earnings from continuing operations, as GE tax expense does not include taxes on GECS earnings. Management believes that in addition to the Consolidated and GECS tax rates shown in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report, this supplemental measure provides investors with useful information as it presents the GE effective tax rate that can be used in comparing the GE results
to other non-financial services businesses.   
         (82)   

Table of Contents  

    Glossary    
   Backlog  Unfilled customer orders for products and product services (12 months for product services).   
   Borrowing  Financial liability (short or long-term) that obligates us to repay cash or another financial asset to another entity.   
   Borrowings as a percentage of total capital invested  For GE, the sum of borrowings and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, divided by the sum of
borrowings, mandatorily redeemable preferred stock, noncontrolling interests and total shareowners  equity.       Cash equivalents  Highly liquid
debt instruments with original maturities of three months or less, such as commercial paper. Typically included with cash for reporting purposes, unless designated as available-for-sale and included with investment securities.   
   Cash flow hedges  Qualifying derivative instruments that we use to protect ourselves against exposure to variability in future cash flows. The exposure may
be associated with an existing asset or liability, or with a forecasted transaction. See  Hedge.        Commercial paper  Unsecured,
unregistered promise to repay borrowed funds in a specified period ranging from overnight to 270 days.       Derivative instrument  A financial
instrument or contract with another party (counterparty) that is designed to meet any of a variety of risk management objectives, including those related to fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices. Options,
forwards and swaps are the most common derivative instruments we employ. See  Hedge.        Discontinued operations  Certain businesses we
have sold or committed to sell within the next year and therefore will no longer be part of our ongoing operations. The net earnings, assets and liabilities, and cash flows of such businesses are separately classified on our Statement of Earnings,
Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Cash Flows, respectively, for all periods presented.       Effective tax rate  Provision for income
taxes as a percentage of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and accounting changes. Does not represent cash paid for income taxes in the current accounting period. Also referred to as  actual tax rate  or  tax
rate.        Ending Net Investment (ENI)  is the total capital we have invested in the financial services business. It is the sum of short-term
borrowings, long-term borrowings and equity (excluding noncontrolling interests) adjusted for unrealized gains and losses on investment securities and hedging instruments. Alternatively, it is the amount of assets of continuing operations less the
amount of non-interest bearing liabilities.         Equipment leased to others  Rental equipment we own that is available to rent and is stated at
cost less accumulated depreciation.       Fair value hedge  Qualifying derivative instruments that we use to reduce the risk of changes in the fair
value of assets, liabilities or certain types of firm commitments. Changes in the fair values of derivative instruments that are designated and effective as fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, but are offset by corresponding changes in the
fair values of the hedged items. See  Hedge.        Financing receivables  Investment in contractual loans and leases due from customers (not
investment securities).   
         (83)   

Table of Contents  

    Forward contract  Fixed price contract for purchase or sale of a specified quantity of a commodity, security,
currency or other financial instrument with delivery and settlement at a specified future date. Commonly used as a hedging tool. See  Hedge.    
   Goodwill  The premium paid for acquisition of a business. Calculated as the purchase price less the fair value of net assets acquired (net assets are
identified tangible and intangible assets, less liabilities assumed).       Guaranteed investment contracts (GICs)  Deposit-type products that
guarantee a minimum rate of return, which may be fixed or floating.       Hedge  A technique designed to eliminate risk. Often refers to the use of
derivative financial instruments to offset changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices, although many business positions are  naturally hedged    for example, funding a U.S. fixed-rate investment with U.S.
fixed-rate borrowings is a natural interest rate hedge.       Intangible asset  A non-financial asset lacking physical substance, such as goodwill,
patents, licenses, trademarks and customer relationships.       Interest rate swap  Agreement under which two counterparties agree to exchange one type
of interest rate cash flow for another. In a typical arrangement, one party periodically will pay a fixed amount of interest, in exchange for which that party will receive variable payments computed using a published index. See  Hedge. 
      Investment securities  Generally, an instrument that provides an ownership position in a corporation (a stock), a creditor relationship with a
corporation or governmental body (a bond), rights to contractual cash flows backed by pools of financial assets or rights to ownership such as those represented by options, subscription rights and subscription warrants.   
   Managed receivables  Total receivable amounts on which we continue to perform billing and collection activities, including receivables that have been sold
with and without credit recourse and are no longer reported on our Statement of Financial Position.       Match funding  A risk control policy that
provides funding for a particular financial asset having the same currency, maturity and interest rate characteristics as that asset. Match funding is executed directly, by issuing debt, or synthetically, through a combination of debt and derivative
financial instruments. For example, when we lend at a fixed interest rate in the U.S., we can borrow those U.S. dollars either at a fixed rate of interest or at a floating rate executed concurrently with a pay-fixed interest rate swap. See
 Hedge.        Monetization  Sale of financial assets to a third party for cash. For example, we sell certain loans, credit card receivables
and trade receivables to third-party financial buyers, typically providing at least some credit protection and often agreeing to provide collection and processing services for a fee. Monetization normally results in gains on interest-bearing assets
and losses on non-interest bearing assets. See  Securitization  and  Variable Interest Entity.        Noncontrolling interest 
Portion of shareowner s equity in a subsidiary that is not attributable to GE. In financial statements prior to 2009, this was labeled minority interest and was presented outside of shareowners  equity.   
   Operating profit  GE earnings from continuing operations before interest and other financial charges, income taxes and effects of accounting changes.
      Option  The right, not the obligation, to execute a transaction at a designated price, generally involving equity interests, interest rates,
currencies or commodities. See  Hedge.    
         (84)   

Table of Contents  

    Product services  For purposes of the financial statement display of sales and costs of sales in our Statement
of Earnings,  goods  is required by U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations to include all sales of tangible products, and  services  must include all other sales, including broadcasting and other services activities.
In our Management s Discussion and Analysis of Operations we refer to sales under product service agreements and sales of both goods (such as spare parts and equipment upgrades) and related services (such as monitoring, maintenance and repairs)
as sales of  product services,  which is an important part of our operations.       Product services agreements  Contractual commitments,
with multiple-year terms, to provide specified services for products in our Energy Infrastructure and Technology Infrastructure installed base   for example, monitoring, maintenance, service and spare parts for a gas turbine/generator set
installed in a customer s power plant.       Productivity  The rate of increased output for a given level of input, with both output and input
measured in constant currency.       Progress collections  Payments received from customers as deposits before the associated work is performed or
product is delivered.       Qualified special purpose entities (QSPEs)  These were entities excluded from consolidation until the effective date of ASU
2009-16 and ASU 2009-17. The activities of QSPEs are significantly limited and entirely specified in the legal documents that established the entity. There also are significant limitations on the types of assets and derivative instruments they may
hold and the types and extent of activities and decision-making they may engage in.       Retained interest  A portion of a transferred financial asset
retained by the transferor that provides rights to receive portions of the cash inflows from that asset.       Return on average GE shareowners 
equity  Earnings from continuing operations before accounting changes divided by average GE shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations (on an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average). Average GE
shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations, as of the end of each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2010, is described in the Supplemental Information section.   
   Return on average total capital invested  For GE, earnings from continuing operations before accounting changes plus the sum of after-tax interest and other
financial charges and noncontrolling interests, divided by the sum of the averages of total shareowners  equity (excluding effects of discontinued operations), borrowings, mandatorily redeemable preferred stock and noncontrolling interests (on
an annual basis, calculated using a five-point average). Average total shareowners  equity, excluding effects of discontinued operations as of the end of each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2010, is described in
the Supplemental Information section.       Securitization  A process whereby loans or other receivables are packaged, underwritten and sold to
investors. In a typical transaction, assets are sold to a special purpose entity, which purchases the assets with cash raised through issuance of beneficial interests (usually debt instruments) to third-party investors. Whether or not credit risk
associated with the securitized assets is retained by the seller depends on the structure of the securitization. See  Monetization  and  Variable interest entity.        Subprime  For purposes of Consumer related discussion, subprime includes consumer finance products like mortgage, auto, cards, sales finance and personal loans to U.S. and global borrowers whose credit score
implies a higher probability of default based upon GECC s proprietary scoring models and definitions, which add various qualitative and quantitative factors to a base credit score such as a FICO score or global bureau score. Although, FICO and
global bureau credit scores are a widely accepted rating of individual consumer creditworthiness, the internally modeled scores are more reflective of the behavior and default risks in the portfolio compared to stand-alone generic bureau scores.
  
         (85)   

Table of Contents  

    Turnover  Broadly based on the number of times that working capital is replaced during a year. Current
receivables turnover is total sales divided by the five-point average balance of GE current receivables. Inventory turnover is total sales divided by a five-point average balance of inventories. See  Working capital.    
   Unpaid claims and claims adjustment expenses  Claims reserves for events that have occurred, including both reported and incurred-but-not-reported (IBNR)
reserves, and the expenses of settling such claims.       Variable interest entity  An entity defined by ASC 810,  Consolidation , and that must
be consolidated by its primary beneficiary, the party that holds a controlling financial interest. A variable interest entity has one or both of the following characteristics: (1) its equity at risk is not sufficient to permit the entity to
finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) as a group, the equity investors lack one or more of the following characteristics: (a) the power to direct the activities that most
significantly affect the economic performance of the entity, (b) obligation to absorb expected losses, or (c) right to receive expected residual returns.       Working capital  Represents GE current receivables and inventories, less GE accounts payable and progress collections.         Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.    
  Information about our global risk management can be found in the Operations   Global Risk Management and Financial Resources and Liquidity   Exchange
Rate and Interest Rate Risks sections in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  of this Form 10-K Report.         Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.        Management s
Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting for the Company. With our participation, an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting was conducted as of December 31, 2010, based on the framework and criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      Based on this
evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010.      Our independent
registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our internal control over financial reporting. Their report follows.       

/s/ Jeffrey R. Immelt   

/s/ Keith S. Sherin    
 
  Jeffrey R. Immelt  

Keith S. Sherin   
 
    Chairman of the Board and     Chief Executive
Officer   

Vice Chairman and     Chief Financial
Officer    
 
  February 25, 2011  

(86)   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
  To Shareowners and Board of Directors      of General Electric Company:
     We have audited the accompanying statement of financial position of General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates ( GE ) as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners  equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. We also have audited GE s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ). GE
management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on GE s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our
audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
     A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements appearing on pages 90, 92, 93, 95 and 97   193 and the Summary of Operating Segments table on page 38
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of GE as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, GE maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by COSO.   
         (87)   

Table of Contents  

   As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, GE, in 2010, changed its method of accounting for
consolidation of variable interest entities; in 2009, changed its method of accounting for impairment of debt securities, business combinations and noncontrolling interests; and, in 2008, changed its method of accounting for fair value measurements
and adopted the fair value option for certain financial assets and financial liabilities.      Our audits of GE s consolidated financial statements
were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole. The accompanying consolidating information appearing on pages 91, 94 and 96 is presented for purposes of additional analysis of the
consolidated financial statements rather than to present the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the individual entities. The consolidating information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits of
the consolidated financial statements and, in our opinion, is fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.   

(88)   

Table of Contents  

    Audited Financial Statements and Notes    

(89)   

Table of Contents  

      Statement of Earnings    

See Note 3 for other-than-temporary impairment amounts.
     See accompanying notes.   
         (90)   

Table of Contents  

Statement of Earnings (Continued)    

(a)  
  Represents the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on a one-line basis.
See Note 1.        In the consolidating data on this page,  GE  means the basis of consolidation as described in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements;  GECS  means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Separate information is shown for  GE  and  GECS.  Transactions between GE and
GECS have been eliminated from the  General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns on the prior page.   
         (91)   

Table of Contents  

      Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity    
   
            On January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810,  Consolidation , that requires certain changes to the presentation of our financial statements. This amendment
requires us to classify noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as  minority interest ) as part of shareowners  equity.       

(a)  
  On January 1, 2010, we adopted amendments to ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing  and ASC 810,  Consolidation , and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment. See
Notes 15 and 24. We adopted amendments to ASC 320,  Investments - Debt and Equity Securities , and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to increase retained earnings as of April 1, 2009. See Notes 3 and 15.     
    See accompanying notes.   
         (92)   

Table of Contents  

      Statement of Financial Position    

(a)  
  Our consolidated assets at December 31, 2010 include total assets of $49,295 million of certain variable interest entities (VIEs) that can only be used to settle the
liabilities of those VIEs. These assets include net financing receivables of $38,612 million and investment securities of $6,670 million. Our consolidated liabilities at December 31, 2010 include liabilities of certain VIEs for which the VIE
creditors do not have recourse to GE. These liabilities include non-recourse borrowings of consolidated securitization entities (CSEs) of $29,444 million. See Note 24.     
 
    See accompanying notes.   
         (93)   

Table of Contents  

Statement of Financial Position (Continued)          

(a)  
  Represents the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on a one-line basis.
See Note 1.        In the consolidating data on this page,  GE  means the basis of consolidation as described in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements;  GECS  means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Separate information is shown for  GE  and  GECS.  Transactions between GE and
GECS have been eliminated from the  General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns on the prior page.   
         (94)   

Table of Contents  

      Statement of Cash Flows    

See accompanying notes.   
         (95)   

Table of Contents  

Statement of Cash Flows (Continued)    

(a)  
  Represents the adding together of all affiliated companies except General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS or financial services), which is presented on a one-line basis.
See Note 1.        In the consolidating data on this page,  GE  means the basis of consolidation as described in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements;  GECS  means General Electric Capital Services, Inc. and all of its affiliates and associated companies. Separate information is shown for  GE  and  GECS.  Transactions between GE and
GECS have been eliminated from the  General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates  columns on the prior page and are discussed in Note 27.   
         (96)   

Table of Contents  

      Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES    
   Accounting Principles       Our financial statements are prepared
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).       Consolidation       Our financial statements consolidate all of our affiliates   entities in which we have a controlling financial interest, most often because we hold a majority voting interest. To determine if we hold a
controlling financial interest in an entity we first evaluate if we are required to apply the Variable Interest Entity (VIE) model to the entity, otherwise the entity is evaluated under the Voting Interest model.   
  Where we hold current or potential rights that give us the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic
performance combined with a variable interest that gives us the right to receive potentially significant benefits or the obligation to absorb potentially significant losses, we have a controlling financial interest in that VIE. Rights held by others
to remove the party with power over the VIE are not considered unless one party can exercise those rights unilaterally. When changes occur to the design of an entity we reconsider whether it is subject to the VIE model. We continuously evaluate
whether we have a controlling financial interest in a VIE.      We hold a controlling financial interest in other entities where we currently hold, directly
or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights or where we exercise control through substantive participating rights or as a general partner. Where we are a general partner we consider substantive removal rights held by other partners in
determining if we hold a controlling financial interest. We evaluate whether we have a controlling financial interest in these entities when our voting or substantive participating rights change.   
  Associated companies are unconsolidated VIEs and other entities in which we do not have a controlling financial interest, but over which we have significant
influence, most often because we hold a voting interest of 20% to 50%. Associated companies are accounted for as equity method investments. Results of associated companies are presented on a one-line basis. Investments in and advances to associated
companies are presented on a one-line basis in the caption  All other assets  in our Statement of Financial Position, net of allowance for losses that represents our best estimate of probable losses inherent in such assets.   
   Financial Statement Presentation       We have reclassified
certain prior-year amounts to conform to the current-year s presentation.      Financial data and related measurements are presented in the following
categories:       GE    This represents the adding together of all affiliates other than General Electric Capital Services, Inc. (GECS), whose
operations are presented on a one-line basis.       GECS    This affiliate owns all of the common stock of General Electric Capital Corporation
(GECC). GECC and its respective affiliates are consolidated in the accompanying GECS columns and constitute the majority of its business.   
   Consolidated    This represents the adding together of GE and GECS, giving effect to the elimination of transactions between GE and GECS.   
   Operating Segments    These comprise our five businesses, focused on the broad markets they serve: Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC
Universal (NBCU), GE Capital and Home   Business Solutions. Prior-period information has been reclassified to be consistent with how we managed our businesses in 2010.   
         (97)   

Table of Contents  

   Unless otherwise indicated, information in these notes to consolidated financial statements relates to continuing
operations. Certain of our operations have been presented as discontinued. See Note 2.      The effects of translating to U.S. dollars the financial
statements of non-U.S. affiliates whose functional currency is the local currency are included in shareowners  equity. Asset and liability accounts are translated at year-end exchange rates, while revenues and expenses are translated at average
rates for the respective periods.      Preparing financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates based on assumptions about
current, and for some estimates future, economic and market conditions (for example, unemployment, market liquidity, the real estate market, etc.), which affect reported amounts and related disclosures in our financial statements. Although our
current estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, as appropriate, it is reasonably possible that in 2011 actual conditions could be worse than anticipated in those estimates, which could materially
affect our results of operations and financial position. Among other effects, such changes could result in future impairments of investment securities, goodwill, intangibles and long-lived assets, incremental losses on financing receivables,
establishment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax liabilities.       Sales of Goods and Services    
  We record all sales of goods and services only when a firm sales agreement is in place, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered and collectibility of
the fixed or determinable sales price is reasonably assured.      Arrangements for the sale of goods and services sometimes include multiple components.
Most of our multiple component arrangements involve the sale of goods and services in the Technology Infrastructure segment. Our arrangements with multiple components usually involve future service deliverables such as installation, training or the
future delivery of ancillary equipment. In such agreements, the amount assigned to each component is based on the total price and the undelivered component s objectively determined fair value, determined from sources such as the separate
selling price for that or a similar component or from competitor prices for similar components. If fair value of an undelivered component cannot be satisfactorily determined, we defer revenue until all components of an arrangement are delivered.
     Except for goods sold under long-term agreements, we recognize sales of goods under the provisions of U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) 104, Revenue Recognition. We often sell consumer products, home videos and computer hardware and software products with a right of return. We use our accumulated experience to estimate and provide for such returns
when we record the sale. In situations where arrangements include customer acceptance provisions based on seller or customer-specified objective criteria, we recognize revenue when we have reliably demonstrated that all specified acceptance criteria
have been met or when formal acceptance occurs. In arrangements where we provide goods for trial and evaluation purposes, we only recognize revenue after customer acceptance occurs. Unless otherwise noted, we do not provide for anticipated losses
before we record sales.      Certain of our sales of goods and services involve inconsequential or perfunctory performance obligations. These obligations
can include non-essential installation or training, and in some instances provision of product manuals and limited technical product support. When the only remaining undelivered performance obligation under an arrangement is inconsequential or
perfunctory, we recognize revenue on the total contract and provide for the cost of the unperformed obligation.   
         (98)   

Table of Contents  

   We recognize revenue on agreements for sales of goods and services under power generation unit and uprate contracts;
nuclear fuel assemblies; larger oil drilling equipment projects; aeroderivative unit contracts; military development contracts; and long-term construction projects, using long-term construction and production contract accounting. We estimate total
long-term contract revenue net of price concessions as well as total contract costs. For goods sold under power generation unit and uprate contracts, nuclear fuel assemblies, aeroderivative unit contracts and military development contracts, we
recognize sales as we complete major contract-specified deliverables, most often when customers receive title to the goods or accept the services as performed. For larger oil drilling equipment projects and long-term construction projects, we
recognize sales based on our progress towards contract completion measured by actual costs incurred in relation to our estimate of total expected costs. We measure long-term contract revenues by applying our contract-specific estimated margin rates
to incurred costs. We routinely update our estimates of future costs for agreements in process and report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in current operations. We provide for any loss that we expect to incur on these agreements when that
loss is probable.      We recognize revenue upon delivery for sales of aircraft engines, military propulsion equipment and related spare parts not sold
under long-term product services agreements. Delivery of commercial engines, non-U.S. military equipment and all related spare parts occurs on shipment; delivery of military propulsion equipment sold to the U.S. Government or agencies thereof occurs
upon receipt of a Material Inspection and Receiving Report, DD Form 250 or Memorandum of Shipment. Commercial aircraft engines are complex aerospace equipment manufactured to customer order under a variety of sometimes-complex, long-term agreements.
We measure sales of commercial aircraft engines by applying our contract-specific estimated margin rates to incurred costs. We routinely update our estimates of future revenues and costs for commercial aircraft engine agreements in process and
report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in current operations. Significant components of our revenue and cost estimates include price concessions, performance-related guarantees as well as material, labor and overhead costs. We measure
revenue for military propulsion equipment and spare parts not subject to long-term product services agreements based on the specific contract on a specifically-measured output basis. We provide for any loss that we expect to incur on these
agreements when that loss is probable; consistent with industry practice, for commercial aircraft engines, we make such provision only if such losses are not recoverable from future highly probable sales of spare parts for those engines.   
  We sell product services under long-term product maintenance or extended warranty agreements in our Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure segments,
principally in Aviation, Energy and Transportation, where costs of performing services are incurred on other than a straight-line basis. We also sell product services in Healthcare, where such costs generally are expected to be on a straight-line
basis. For the Aviation, Energy and Transportation agreements, we recognize related sales based on the extent of our progress towards completion measured by actual costs incurred in relation to total expected costs. We routinely update our estimates
of future costs for agreements in process and report any cumulative effects of such adjustments in current operations. For the Healthcare agreements, we recognize revenues on a straight-line basis and expense related costs as incurred. We provide
for any loss that we expect to incur on any of these agreements when that loss is probable.      NBC Universal records broadcast and cable television and
Internet advertising sales when advertisements are aired, net of provision for any viewer shortfalls (make goods). We record sales from theatrical distribution of films as the films are exhibited; sales of home videos, net of a return provision,
when the videos are delivered to and available for sale by retailers; fees from cable/satellite operators when services are provided; and licensing of film and television programming when we make the material available for airing.   
         (99)   

Table of Contents  

    GECS Revenues from Services (Earned Income)       We use the interest method to recognize income on loans. Interest on loans includes origination, commitment and other non-refundable fees related to funding (recorded in earned income on the interest method). We
stop accruing interest at the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the account becomes 90 days past due. Previously recognized interest income that was accrued but not collected from the borrower is evaluated as
part of the overall receivable in determining the adequacy of the allowance for losses. Although we stop accruing interest in advance of payments, we recognize interest income as cash is collected when appropriate, provided the amount does not
exceed that which would have been earned at the historical effective interest rate; otherwise, payments received are applied to reduce the principal balance of the loan. We resume accruing interest on nonaccrual, non-restructured commercial loans
only when (a) payments are brought current according to the loan s original terms and (b) future payments are reasonably assured. When we agree to restructured terms with the borrower, we resume accruing interest only when it is
reasonably assured that we will recover full contractual payments, and such loans pass underwriting reviews equivalent to those applied to new loans. We resume accruing interest on nonaccrual consumer loans when the customer s account is less
than 90 days past due and collection of such amounts is probable.   Interest accruals on modified consumer loans that are not considered to be troubled debt restructurings (TDRs) may return to current status (re-aged) only after receipt of
at least three consecutive minimum monthly payments or the equivalent cumulative amount, subject to a re-aging limitation of once a year, or twice in a five-year period.      We recognize financing lease income on the interest method to produce a level yield on funds not yet recovered. Estimated unguaranteed residual values are based upon management s best estimates of the value of
the leased asset at the end of the lease term. We use various sources of data in determining this estimate, including information obtained from third parties, which is adjusted for the attributes of the specific asset under lease. Guarantees of
residual values by unrelated third parties are considered part of minimum lease payments. Significant assumptions we use in estimating residual values include estimated net cash flows over the remaining lease term, anticipated results of future
remarketing, and estimated future component part and scrap metal prices, discounted at an appropriate rate.      We recognize operating lease income on a
straight-line basis over the terms of underlying leases.      Fees include commitment fees related to loans that we do not expect to fund and line-of-credit
fees. We record these fees in earned income on a straight-line basis over the period to which they relate. We record syndication fees in earned income at the time related services are performed, unless significant contingencies exist.   
   Depreciation and Amortization       The cost of GE manufacturing
plant and equipment is depreciated over its estimated economic life. U.S. assets are depreciated using an accelerated method based on a sum-of-the-years digits formula; non-U.S. assets are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis.   
  The cost of GECS equipment leased to others on operating leases is depreciated on a straight-line basis to estimated residual value over the lease term or over the
estimated economic life of the equipment.      The cost of GECS acquired real estate investments is depreciated on a straight-line basis to the estimated
salvage value over the expected useful life or the estimated proceeds upon sale of the investment at the end of the expected holding period if that approach produces a higher measure of depreciation expense.   
  The cost of individually significant customer relationships is amortized in proportion to estimated total related sales; cost of other intangible assets is
generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset s estimated economic life. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. See
Notes 7 and 8.   
         (100)   

Table of Contents  

    NBC Universal Film and Television Costs       We defer film and television production costs, including direct costs, production overhead, development costs and interest. We do not defer costs of exploitation, which principally comprise costs of film and
television program marketing and distribution. We amortize deferred film and television production costs, as well as associated participation and residual costs, on an individual production basis using the ratio of the current period s gross
revenues to estimated total remaining gross revenues from all sources; we state such costs at the lower of amortized cost or fair value. Estimates of total revenues and costs are based on anticipated release patterns, public acceptance and
historical results for similar products. We defer the costs of acquired broadcast material, including rights to material for use on NBC Universal s broadcast and cable/satellite television networks, at the earlier of acquisition or when the
license period begins and the material is available for use. We amortize acquired broadcast material and rights when we broadcast the associated programs; we state such costs at the lower of amortized cost or net realizable value.   
   Losses on Financing Receivables       Losses on financing
receivables are recognized when they are incurred, which requires us to make our best estimate of probable losses inherent in the portfolio. The method for calculating the best estimate of losses depends on the size, type and risk characteristics of
the related financing receivable. Such an estimate requires consideration of historical loss experience, adjusted for current conditions, and judgments about the probable effects of relevant observable data, including present economic conditions
such as delinquency rates, financial health of specific customers and market sectors, collateral values (including housing price indices as applicable), and the present and expected future levels of interest rates. The underlying assumptions,
estimates and assessments we use to provide for losses are updated periodically to reflect our view of current conditions. Changes in such estimates can significantly affect the allowance and provision for losses. It is possible that we will
experience credit losses that are different from our current estimates. Write-offs are deducted from the allowance for losses when we judge the principal to be uncollectible and subsequent recoveries are added to the allowance at the time cash is
received on a written-off account.       Impaired  loans are defined as larger balance or restructured loans for which it is probable that the
lender will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the original contractual terms of the loan agreement. TDRs are those loans for which we have granted a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties where we do not receive
adequate compensation. Such loans are classified as impaired, and are individually reviewed for specific reserves.       Delinquent  receivables
are those that are 30 days or more past due based on their contractual terms; and  nonearning  receivables are those that are 90 days or more past due (or for which collection is otherwise doubtful). Nonearning receivables exclude loans
purchased at a discount (unless they have deteriorated post acquisition). Under ASC 310,  Receivables , these loans are initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the estimated life of the loan based on reasonably
estimable cash flows even if the underlying loans are contractually delinquent at acquisition. In addition, nonearning receivables exclude loans that are paying on a cash accounting basis but classified as nonaccrual and impaired.
 Nonaccrual  financing receivables include all nonearning receivables and are those on which we have stopped accruing interest. We stop accruing interest at the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the
account becomes 90 days past due. Recently restructured financing receivables are not considered delinquent when payments are brought current according to the restructured terms, but may remain classified as nonaccrual until there has been a period
of satisfactory payment performance by the borrower and future payments are reasonably assured of collection.      When we repossess collateral in
satisfaction of a loan, we write down the receivable against the allowance for losses. Repossessed collateral is included in the caption  All other assets  in the Statement of Financial Position and carried at the lower of cost or
estimated fair value less costs to sell.   
         (101)   

Table of Contents  

   We write off unsecured closed-end installment loans at 120 days contractually past due and unsecured open-ended
revolving loans at 180 days contractually past due. We write down consumer loans secured by collateral other than residential real estate when such loans are 120 days past due. Consumer loans secured by residential real estate (both revolving and
closed-end loans) are written down to the fair value of collateral, less costs to sell, no later than when they become 360 days past due. Unsecured consumer loans in bankruptcy are written off within 60 days of notification of filing by the
bankruptcy court or within contractual write-off periods, whichever occurs earlier.      Write-offs on larger balance impaired commercial loans are based on
amounts deemed uncollectible and are reviewed quarterly. Write-offs on Real Estate loans are recorded upon initiation of foreclosure or early settlement by the borrower, or in some cases, based on the passage of time depending on specific facts and
circumstances. In Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL), loans are written off when deemed uncollectible (e.g., when the borrower enters restructuring, collateral is to be liquidated or at 180 days past due for smaller balance homogeneous loans).
     Our consumer loan portfolio consists of smaller balance, homogeneous loans including card receivables, installment loans, auto loans and leases and
residential mortgages. We collectively evaluate each portfolio for impairment quarterly. The allowance for losses on these receivables is established through a process that estimates the probable losses inherent in the portfolio based upon
statistical analyses of portfolio data. These analyses include migration analysis, in which historical delinquency and credit loss experience is applied to the current aging of the portfolio, together with other analyses that reflect current trends
and conditions. We also consider overall portfolio indicators including nonearning loans, trends in loan volume and lending terms, credit policies and other observable environmental factors such as unemployment rates and home price indices.
     Our commercial loan and lease portfolio consists of a variety of loans and leases, including both larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans and leases and
smaller-balance homogeneous commercial and equipment loans and leases. Losses on such loans and leases are recorded when probable and estimable. We routinely evaluate our entire portfolio for potential specific credit or collection issues that might
indicate an impairment. For larger-balance, non-homogeneous loans and leases, we consider the financial status, payment history, collateral value, industry conditions and guarantor support related to specific customers. Any delinquencies or
bankruptcies are indications of potential impairment requiring further assessment of collectibility. We routinely receive financial as well as rating agency reports on our customers, and we elevate for further attention those customers whose
operations we judge to be marginal or deteriorating. We also elevate customers for further attention when we observe a decline in collateral values for asset-based loans. While collateral values are not always available, when we observe such a
decline, we evaluate relevant markets to assess recovery alternatives   for example, for real estate loans, relevant markets are local; for commercial aircraft loans, relevant markets are global. Measurement of the loss on our impaired loans is
based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate or the fair value of collateral, net of expected selling costs if the loan is determined to be collateral dependent. We determine whether
a loan is collateral dependent if the repayment of the loan is expected to be provided solely by the underlying collateral. Our review process can often result in reserves being established in advance of a modification of terms or designation as a
TDR. After providing for specific incurred losses, we then determine an allowance for losses that have been incurred in the balance of the portfolio but cannot yet be identified to a specific loan or lease. This estimate is based upon various
statistical analyses considering historical and projected default rates and loss severity and aging, as well as our view on current market and economic conditions. It is prepared by each respective line of business. For Real Estate, this includes
converting economic indicators into real estate market indicators that are calibrated by market and asset class and which are used to project expected performance of the portfolio based on specific loan portfolio metrics.   
         (102)   

Table of Contents  

   We consider multiple factors in evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for losses on Real Estate financing
receivables, including loan-to-value ratios, collateral values at the individual loan level, debt service coverage ratios, delinquency status, and economic factors including interest rate and real estate market forecasts. In addition to evaluating
these factors, we deem a Real Estate loan to be impaired if its projected loan-to-value ratio at maturity is in excess of 100%, even if the loan is currently paying in accordance with its contractual terms. The allowance for losses on Real Estate
financing receivables is based on a discounted cash flow methodology, except in situations where the loan is within 24 months of maturity or foreclosure is deemed probable, in which case reserves are based on collateral values. If foreclosure is
deemed probable or if repayment is dependent solely on the sale of collateral, we deduct estimated selling costs from the fair value of the underlying collateral values. Collateral values for our Real Estate loans are determined based upon internal
cash flow estimates discounted at an appropriate rate and corroborated by external appraisals, as appropriate. Collateral valuations are updated at least semi-annually, or more frequently, for higher risk loans. A substantial majority of our Real
Estate impaired loans have specific reserves that are determined based on the underlying collateral values. For further discussion on determining fair value see the Fair Value Measurements section below.   
  Experience is not available for new products; therefore, while we are developing that experience, we set loss allowances based on our experience with the most
closely analogous products in our portfolio.      Our loss mitigation strategy intends to minimize economic loss and, at times, can result in rate
reductions, principal forgiveness, extensions, forbearance or other actions, which may cause the related loan to be classified as a TDR.      We utilize
certain loan modification programs for borrowers experiencing temporary financial difficulties in our Consumer loan portfolio. These loan modification programs are primarily concentrated in our U.S. credit card and non-U.S. residential mortgage
portfolios and include short-term (12 months or less) interest rate reductions and payment deferrals, which were not part of the terms of the original contract. We sold our U.S. residential mortgage business in 2007 and as such, do not participate
in the U.S. government-sponsored mortgage modification programs.      Our allowance for losses on financing receivables on these modified consumer loans is
determined based upon a formulaic approach that estimates the probable losses inherent in the portfolio based upon statistical analyses of the portfolio. Data related to redefault experience is also considered in our overall reserve adequacy review.
Once the loan has been modified, it returns to current status (re-aged) only after receipt of at least three consecutive minimum monthly payments or the equivalent cumulative amount, subject to a re-aging limitation of once a year, or twice in a
five-year period in accordance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council guidelines on Uniform Retail Credit Classification and Account Management policy issued in June 2000. We believe that the allowance for losses would not be
materially different had we not re-aged these accounts.      For commercial loans, we evaluate changes in terms and conditions to determine whether those
changes meet the criteria for classification as a TDR on a loan-by-loan basis. In CLL, these changes primarily include: changes to covenants, short-term payment deferrals and maturity extensions. For these changes, we receive economic consideration,
including additional fees and/or increased interest rates, and evaluate them under our normal underwriting standards and criteria. Changes to Real Estate s loans primarily include maturity extensions, principal payment acceleration, changes to
collateral terms, and cash sweeps, which are in addition to, or sometimes in lieu of, fees and rate increases. The determination of whether these changes to the terms and conditions of our commercial loans meet the TDR criteria includes our
consideration of all of the relevant facts and circumstances. When the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we carefully evaluate these changes to determine whether they meet the form of a concession. In these circumstances, if the change
is deemed to be a concession, we classify the loan as a TDR.   
         (103)   

Table of Contents  

    Partial Sales of Business Interests       On January 1, 2009, we adopted amendments to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 810,  Consolidation , which requires that gains or losses on sales of affiliate shares where we retain a controlling
financial interest to be recorded in equity. Gains or losses on sales that result in our loss of a controlling financial interest are recorded in earnings along with remeasurement gains or losses on any investments in the entity that we retained.
Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2010-02,  Accounting and Reporting for Decreases in Ownership of a Subsidiary , which clarified the scope of Topic 810,  Consolidation . Prior to January 1,
2009, we recorded gains or losses on sales of their own shares by affiliates except when realization of gains was not reasonably assured, in which case we recorded the results in shareowners  equity. We recorded gains or losses on sales of
interests in commercial and military engine and aeroderivative equipment programs.       Cash and Equivalents    
  Debt securities and money market instruments with original maturities of three months or less are included in cash equivalents unless designated as
available-for-sale and classified as investment securities.       Investment Securities       We report investments in debt and marketable equity securities, and certain other equity securities, at fair value. See Note 21 for further information on fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on
available-for-sale investment securities are included in shareowners  equity, net of applicable taxes and other adjustments. We regularly review investment securities for impairment using both quantitative and qualitative criteria.   
  If we do not intend to sell the security or it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of our amortized cost, we
evaluate qualitative criteria to determine whether we do not expect to recover the amortized cost basis of the security, such as the financial health of and specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer is in compliance with the
terms and covenants of the security. We also evaluate quantitative criteria including determining whether there has been an adverse change in expected future cash flows. If we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security,
we consider the security to be other-than-temporarily impaired, and we record the difference between the security s amortized cost basis and its recoverable amount in earnings and the difference between the security s recoverable amount
and fair value in other comprehensive income. If we intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the security is also considered
other-than-temporarily impaired and we recognize the entire difference between the security s amortized cost basis and its fair value in earnings.   
  Prior to April 1, 2009, unrealized losses that were other-than-temporary were recognized in earnings at an amount equal to the difference between the
security s amortized cost and fair value. In determining whether the unrealized loss was other-than-temporary, we considered both quantitative and qualitative criteria. Quantitative criteria included the length of time and magnitude of the
amount that each security was in an unrealized loss position and, for securities with fixed maturities, whether the issuer was in compliance with terms and covenants of the security. For structured securities, we evaluated whether there was an
adverse change in the timing or amount of expected cash flows. Qualitative criteria included the financial health of and specific prospects for the issuer, as well as our intent and ability to hold the security to maturity or until forecasted
recovery.      Realized gains and losses are accounted for on the specific identification method. Unrealized gains and losses on investment securities
classified as trading and certain retained interests are included in earnings.       Inventories    
  All inventories are stated at the lower of cost or realizable values. Cost for a significant portion of GE U.S. inventories is determined on a last-in, first-out
(LIFO) basis. Cost of other GE inventories is determined on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis. LIFO was used for 39% of GE inventories at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. GECS inventories consist of finished products held for sale; cost is
determined on a FIFO basis.   
         (104)   

Table of Contents  

    Intangible Assets       We do not amortize goodwill, but test it at least annually for impairment at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business one level below that operating segment (the component
level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by segment management. However, components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. We recognize an impairment charge if the
carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value and the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill. We use discounted cash flows to establish fair values. When available and as
appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. When all or a portion of a reporting unit is disposed of, goodwill is allocated to the gain or loss on disposition based on the relative fair values of the
business disposed of and the portion of the reporting unit that will be retained.      We amortize the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful
lives unless such lives are deemed indefinite. The cost of intangible assets is generally amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset s estimated economic life, except that individually significant customer-related intangible assets are
amortized in relation to total related sales. Amortizable intangible assets are tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Intangible
assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for impairment and written down to fair value as required.       GECS Investment Contracts, Insurance
Liabilities and Insurance Annuity Benefits       Certain entities, which we consolidate, provide guaranteed investment contracts to states, municipalities
and municipal authorities.      Our insurance activities also include providing insurance and reinsurance for life and health risks and providing certain
annuity products. Three product groups are provided: traditional insurance contracts, investment contracts and universal life insurance contracts. Insurance contracts are contracts with significant mortality and/or morbidity risks, while investment
contracts are contracts without such risks. Universal life insurance contracts are a particular type of long-duration insurance contract whose terms are not fixed and guaranteed.      For short-duration insurance contracts, including accident and health insurance, we report premiums as earned income over the terms of the related agreements, generally on a pro-rata basis. For traditional
long-duration insurance contracts including term, whole life and annuities payable for the life of the annuitant, we report premiums as earned income when due.      Premiums received on investment contracts (including annuities without significant mortality risk) and universal life contracts are not reported as revenues but rather as deposit liabilities. We recognize revenues
for charges and assessments on these contracts, mostly for mortality, contract initiation, administration and surrender. Amounts credited to policyholder accounts are charged to expense.      Liabilities for traditional long-duration insurance contracts represent the present value of such benefits less the present value of future net premiums based on mortality, morbidity, interest and other assumptions
at the time the policies were issued or acquired. Liabilities for investment contracts and universal life policies equal the account value, that is, the amount that accrues to the benefit of the contract or policyholder including credited interest
and assessments through the financial statement date.      Liabilities for unpaid claims and estimated claim settlement expenses represent our best estimate
of the ultimate obligations for reported and incurred-but-not-reported claims and the related estimated claim settlement expenses. Liabilities for unpaid claims and estimated claim settlement expenses are continually reviewed and adjusted through
current operations.   
         (105)   

Table of Contents  

    Fair Value Measurements       For financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, fair value is the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market
participant at the measurement date. In the absence of active markets for the identical assets or liabilities, such measurements involve developing assumptions based on market observable data and, in the absence of such data, internal information
that is consistent with what market participants would use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date.      Observable inputs reflect
market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. Preference is given to observable inputs. These two types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy:   

Level 1  

Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.   

Level 2  

Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are
observable or whose significant value drivers are observable.   

Level 3  

Significant inputs to the valuation model are unobservable.       We maintain policies
and procedures to value instruments using the best and most relevant data available. In addition, we have risk management teams that review valuation, including independent price validation for certain instruments. Further, in other instances, we
retain independent pricing vendors to assist in valuing certain instruments.      The following section describes the valuation methodologies we use to
measure different financial instruments at fair value on a recurring basis.       Investments in Debt and Equity Securities . When available, we use
quoted market prices to determine the fair value of investment securities, and they are included in Level 1. Level 1 securities primarily include publicly-traded equity securities.      When quoted market prices are unobservable, we obtain pricing information from an independent pricing vendor. The pricing vendor uses various pricing models for each asset class that are consistent with what other
market participants would use. The inputs and assumptions to the model of the pricing vendor are derived from market observable sources including: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids,
offers, and other market-related data. Since many fixed income securities do not trade on a daily basis, the methodology of the pricing vendor uses available information as applicable such as benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector
groupings, and matrix pricing. The pricing vendor considers available market observable inputs in determining the evaluation for a security. Thus, certain securities may not be priced using quoted prices, but rather determined from market observable
information. These investments are included in Level 2 and primarily comprise our portfolio of corporate fixed income, and government, mortgage and asset-backed securities. In infrequent circumstances, our pricing vendors may provide us with
valuations that are based on significant unobservable inputs, and in those circumstances we classify the investment securities in Level 3.   
         (106)   

Table of Contents  

   Annually, we conduct reviews of our primary pricing vendor to validate that the inputs used in that vendor s
pricing process are deemed to be market observable as defined in the standard. While we were not provided access to proprietary models of the vendor, our reviews have included on-site walk-throughs of the pricing process, methodologies and control
procedures for each asset class and level for which prices are provided. Our review also included an examination of the underlying inputs and assumptions for a sample of individual securities across asset classes, credit rating levels and various
durations, a process we continue to perform for each reporting period. In addition, the pricing vendor has an established challenge process in place for all security valuations, which facilitates identification and resolution of potentially
erroneous prices. We believe that the prices received from our pricing vendor are representative of prices that would be received to sell the assets at the measurement date (exit prices) and are classified appropriately in the hierarchy.   
  We use non-binding broker quotes as our primary basis for valuation when there is limited, or no, relevant market activity for a specific instrument or for other
instruments that share similar characteristics. We have not adjusted the prices we have obtained. Investment securities priced using non-binding broker quotes are included in Level 3. As is the case with our primary pricing vendor, third-party
brokers do not provide access to their proprietary valuation models, inputs and assumptions. Accordingly, our risk management personnel conduct internal reviews of pricing for all such investment securities quarterly to ensure reasonableness of
valuations used in our financial statements. These reviews are designed to identify prices that appear stale, those that have changed significantly from prior valuations, and other anomalies that may indicate that a price may not be accurate. Based
on the information available, we believe that the fair values provided by the brokers are representative of prices that would be received to sell the assets at the measurement date (exit prices).   
  Retained interests in securitizations are valued using a discounted cash flow model that considers the underlying structure of the securitization and estimated net
credit exposure, prepayment assumptions, discount rates and expected life.       Derivatives.  We use closing prices for derivatives included in Level
1, which are traded either on exchanges or liquid over-the-counter markets.      The majority of our derivatives are valued using internal models. The
models maximize the use of market observable inputs including interest rate curves and both forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. Derivative assets and liabilities included in Level 2 primarily represent interest rate swaps,
cross-currency swaps and foreign currency and commodity forward and option contracts.      Derivative assets and liabilities included in Level 3 primarily
represent interest rate products that contain embedded optionality or prepayment features.       Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements . Certain assets
are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These assets are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis, but are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances. These assets can include loans and long-lived assets that
have been reduced to fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that have been reduced based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, cost and equity method investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair value
when they are impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in formerly consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in control that results in deconsolidation of a subsidiary, if we sell a controlling interest and retain a noncontrolling stake
in the entity. Assets that are written down to fair value when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently adjusted to fair value unless further impairment occurs.      The following describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure financial and non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis and for assets within our pension plans and retiree
benefit plans at each reporting period, as applicable.   
         (107)   

Table of Contents  

    Loans . When available, we use observable market data, including pricing on recent closed market transactions,
to value loans that are included in Level 2. When this data is unobservable, we use valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data adjusted for inherent credit risk, and such loans are included in Level 3. When appropriate, loans
are valued using collateral values as a practical expedient (see Long-Lived Assets below).       Cost and Equity Method Investments . Cost and equity
method investments are valued using market observable data such as quoted prices when available. When market observable data is unavailable, investments are valued using a discounted cash flow model, comparative market multiples or a combination of
both approaches as appropriate. These investments are generally included in Level 3.      Investments in private equity, real estate and collective funds
are valued using net asset values. The net asset values are determined based on the fair values of the underlying investments in the funds. Investments in private equity and real estate funds are generally included in Level 3 because they are not
redeemable at the measurement date. Investments in collective funds are included in Level 2.       Long-lived Assets . Fair values of long-lived
assets, including aircraft and real estate, are primarily derived internally and are based on observed sales transactions for similar assets. In other instances, for example, collateral types for which we do not have comparable observed sales
transaction data, collateral values are developed internally and corroborated by external appraisal information. Adjustments to third-party valuations may be performed in circumstances where market comparables are not specific to the attributes of
the specific collateral or appraisal information may not be reflective of current market conditions due to the passage of time and the occurrence of market events since receipt of the information. For real estate, fair values are based on discounted
cash flow estimates which reflect current and projected lease profiles and available industry information about capitalization rates and expected trends in rents and occupancy and are corroborated by external appraisals. These investments are
generally included in Level 3.       Retained Investments in Formerly Consolidated Subsidiaries . Upon a change in control that results in
deconsolidation of a subsidiary, the fair value measurement of our retained noncontrolling stake in the former subsidiary is valued using an income approach, a market approach, or a combination of both approaches as appropriate. In applying these
methodologies, we rely on a number of factors, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections, market observable pricing multiples of similar businesses and comparable transactions, and possible control premium.
These investments are included in Level 3.       Accounting Changes       The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) made the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The
ASC combines all previously issued authoritative GAAP into one set of guidance codified by subject area. In these financial statements, references to previously issued accounting standards have been replaced with the relevant ASC references.
Subsequent revisions to GAAP by the FASB are incorporated into the ASC through issuance of Accounting Standards Updates (ASU).      On January 1, 2010,
we adopted ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17, amendments to ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing , and ASC 810,  Consolidation , respectively (ASU 2009-16   17). ASU 2009-16 eliminated the Qualified Special Purpose Entity (QSPE) concept,
and ASU 2009-17 required that all such entities be evaluated for consolidation as VIEs. Adoption of these amendments resulted in the consolidation of all of our sponsored QSPEs. In addition, we consolidated assets of VIEs related to direct
investments in entities that hold loans and fixed income securities, a media joint venture and a small number of companies to which we have extended loans in the ordinary course of business and subsequently were subject to a TDR.   
         (108)   

Table of Contents  

   We consolidated the assets and liabilities of these entities at amounts at which they would have been reported in our
financial statements had we always consolidated them. We also deconsolidated certain entities where we did not meet the definition of the primary beneficiary under the revised guidance; however, the effect was insignificant at January 1, 2010.
The incremental effect on total assets and liabilities, net of our investment in these entities, was an increase of $31,097 million and $33,042 million, respectively, at January 1, 2010. The net reduction of total equity (including
noncontrolling interests) was $1,945 million at January 1, 2010, principally related to the reversal of previously recognized securitization gains as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings. See Note 24 for additional information.
     On January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 805,  Business Combinations . This amendment significantly changed the accounting for
business acquisitions both during the period of the acquisition and in subsequent periods. Among the more significant changes in the accounting for acquisitions are the following:   

Acquired in-process research and development (IPR D) is accounted for as an asset, with the cost recognized as the research and development is realized or
abandoned. IPR D was previously expensed at the time of the acquisition.         

Contingent consideration is recorded at fair value as an element of purchase price with subsequent adjustments recognized in operations. Contingent consideration
was previously accounted for as a subsequent adjustment of purchase price.         

Subsequent decreases in valuation allowances on acquired deferred tax assets are recognized in operations after the measurement period. Such changes were
previously considered to be subsequent changes in consideration and were recorded as decreases in goodwill.         

Transaction costs are expensed. These costs were previously treated as costs of the acquisition.     

Upon gaining control of an entity in which an equity method or cost basis investment was held, the carrying value of that investment is adjusted to fair value
with the related gain or loss recorded in earnings. Previously, this fair value adjustment would not have been made.         In April 2009,
the FASB amended ASC 805 and changed the previous accounting for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. We adopted this amendment retrospectively effective January 1, 2009. The amendment requires
pre-acquisition contingencies to be recognized at fair value, if fair value can be determined or reasonably estimated during the measurement period. If fair value cannot be determined or reasonably estimated, the standard requires measurement based
on the recognition and measurement criteria of ASC 450,  Contingencies .      On January 1, 2009, we adopted an amendment to ASC 810, that
requires us to make certain changes to the presentation of our financial statements. This amendment requires us to classify earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests (previously referred to as  minority interest ) as part of
consolidated net earnings ($535 million and $200 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively) and to include the accumulated amount of noncontrolling interests as part of shareowners  equity ($5,262 million and $7,845 million at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively). The net earnings amounts we have previously reported are now presented as  Net earnings attributable to the Company  and, as required, earnings per share continues to reflect amounts attributable only to the
Company. Similarly, in our presentation of shareowners  equity, we distinguish between equity amounts attributable to GE shareowners and amounts attributable to the noncontrolling interests   previously classified as minority interest
outside of shareowners  equity. Beginning January 1, 2009, dividends to noncontrolling interests ($317 million and $548 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively) are classified as financing cash flows. In addition to these financial
reporting changes, this guidance provides for significant changes in accounting related to noncontrolling interests; specifically, increases and decreases in our controlling financial interests in consolidated subsidiaries will be reported in equity
similar to treasury stock transactions. If a change in ownership of a consolidated subsidiary results in loss of control and deconsolidation, any retained ownership interests are remeasured with the gain or loss reported in net earnings.   

         (109)   

Table of Contents  

   Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted ASC 808,  Collaborative Arrangements , that requires gross basis
presentation of revenues and expenses for principal participants in collaborative arrangements. Our Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure segments enter into collaborative arrangements with manufacturers and suppliers of components
used to build and maintain certain engines, aeroderivatives, and turbines, under which GE and these participants share in risks and rewards of these product programs. Adoption of the standard had no effect as our historical presentation had been
consistent with the new requirements.      We adopted amendments to ASC 320,  Investments   Debt and Equity Securities , and recorded a cumulative
effect adjustment to increase retained earnings as of April 1, 2009, of $62 million. See Note 3.      We adopted ASC 820,  Fair Value Measurements
and Disclosures , in two steps; effective January 1, 2008, we adopted it for all financial instruments and non-financial instruments accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis and effective January 1, 2009, for all non-financial
instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis. This guidance establishes a new framework for measuring fair value and expands related disclosures. See Note 21.      Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted ASC 825,  Financial Instruments . Upon adoption, we elected to report $172 million of commercial mortgage loans at fair value in order to recognize them on the same
accounting basis (measured at fair value through earnings) as the derivatives economically hedging these loans.   

      NOTE 2. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES OF BUSINESSES HELD FOR SALE AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS    
   Assets and Liabilities of Businesses Held for Sale        NBC
Universal       In December 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation (Comcast) to transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly
formed entity, comprising our NBCU business and Comcast s cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments, in exchange for cash and a 49% interest in the newly formed entity.
     On March 19, 2010, NBCU entered into a three-year credit agreement and a 364-day bridge loan agreement. On April 30, 2010, NBCU issued $4,000
million of senior, unsecured notes with maturities ranging from 2015 to 2040 (interest rates ranging from 3.65% to 6.40%). On October 4, 2010, NBCU issued $5,100 million of senior, unsecured notes with maturities ranging from 2014 to 2041
(interest rates ranging from 2.10% to 5.95%). Subsequent to these issuances, the credit agreement and bridge loan agreements were terminated, with a $750 million revolving credit agreement remaining in effect. Proceeds from these issuances were used
to repay $1,678 million of existing debt and pay a dividend to GE.      On September 26, 2010, we acquired approximately 38% of Vivendi S.A. s
(Vivendi) 20% interest in NBCU (7.7% of NBCU s outstanding shares) for $2,000 million.      Prior to and in connection with the transaction with
Comcast, we acquired the remaining Vivendi interest in NBCU (12.3% of NBCU s outstanding shares) for $3,578 million and made an additional payment of $222 million related to the previously purchased shares.   
  On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC
(NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received $6,197 million in cash from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity
method. As a result of the transaction, we expect to recognize a small after-tax gain in the first quarter of 2011.   
         (110)   

Table of Contents  

   With respect to our 49% interest in NBCU LLC, we hold redemption rights, which, if exercised, cause NBCU LLC or
Comcast to purchase half of our ownership interest after three and a half years and the remaining half after seven years (either directly or through the transfer of common stock of the corporate owner of NBCU LLC) subject to certain exceptions,
conditions and limitations. Our interest in NBCU LLC is also subject to call provisions, which, if exercised, allow Comcast to purchase our interest (either directly or through the transfer of common stock of the corporate owner of NBCU LLC) at
specified times subject to certain exceptions. The redemption prices for such transactions are determined pursuant to a contractually specified formula.   
  In connection with the transaction, we also entered into a number of agreements with Comcast governing the operation of the venture and transitional services,
employee, tax and other matters. Under the operating agreement, excess cash generated by the operations of NBCU LLC will be used to reduce borrowings rather than to pay distributions to us, except for distributions under a formula to enable us to
pay taxes on NBCU LLC s profits. In addition, Comcast is obligated to make payments to us for a share of tax savings associated with Comcast s purchase of its NBCU LLC member interest.   
  As part of the transfer, we provided guarantees and indemnifications related to certain pre-existing contractual arrangements entered into by NBCU. We have
provided guarantees, on behalf of NBCU LLC, for the acquisition of sports programming in the amount of $3,258 million, triggered only in the event NBCU LLC fails to meet its payment commitments. We also have agreed to indemnify Comcast against any
loss (after giving consideration to underlying collateral) related to a pre-existing credit support agreement covering $815 million of debt plus accrued interest owed by a joint venture of NBCU LLC.   
  At December 31, 2010, we classified the NBCU assets and liabilities of $33,758 million and $15,455 million, respectively, as held for sale. The major classes
of assets at December 31, 2010 were current receivables ($2,572 million), property, plant and equipment   net ($2,082 million), goodwill and other intangible assets   net ($22,263) and all other assets ($6,841 million), including film
and television production costs of $4,423 million. The major classes of liabilities at December 31, 2010 were accounts payable ($492 million), other GE current liabilities ($3,983 million), long-term debt ($9,906 million) and all other
liabilities ($1,073 million).      At December 31, 2009, we classified the NBCU assets and liabilities of $32,150 million and $5,751 million,
respectively, as held for sale. The major classes of assets at December 31, 2009 were current receivables ($2,136 million), property, plant and equipment   net ($1,805 million), goodwill and other intangible assets   net ($21,574) and
all other assets ($6,514 million), including film and television production costs of $4,507 million. The major classes of liabilities at December 31, 2009 were accounts payable ($398 million), other GE current liabilities ($4,051 million) and
all other liabilities ($1,300 million).       Other    
  In 2010, we committed to sell GE Capital Consumer businesses in Argentina, Brazil, and Canada, a CLL business in South Korea, and our Interpark business in Real
Estate. Assets and liabilities of these businesses of $3,127 million and $592 million, respectively, were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2010.      On November 12, 2009, we committed to sell our Security business (within Corporate Items and Eliminations). On February 28, 2010, we completed the sale of our Security business for $1,787 million. Assets
and liabilities of $1,780 million and $282 million, respectively, were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2009.      On January 7, 2009,
we exchanged our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland for a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank. We recognized a $184
million loss, net of tax, related to the classification of the assets held for sale at the lower of carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell.   
         (111)   

Table of Contents  

   On December 24, 2008, we committed to sell a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business, including
certain underlying mortgage receivables, and completed this sale during the first quarter of 2009. We recognized a $38 million loss, net of tax, related to the classifications of the assets held for sale at the lower of carrying amount or estimated
fair value less costs to sell.      Summarized financial information for businesses held for sale is shown below.   
   
     Discontinued Operations    
  Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) (our Central American bank and card business), GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan
business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing business (Consumer RV Marine),
Consumer Mexico and Plastics. Associated results of operations, financial position and cash flows are separately reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.      Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is shown below.   
         (112)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  The sum of GE industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, and GECS earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, is reported as GE
industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, on the Statement of Earnings.         
    Assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, primarily comprised cash, financing receivables and a deferred tax asset for a loss
carryforward, which expires in 2015, related to the sale of our GE Money Japan business.       BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC)    
  During the fourth quarter of 2010, we classified BAC as discontinued operations and completed the sale of BAC for $1,920 million. Immediately prior to the sale, and
in accordance with terms of a previous agreement, we increased our ownership interest in BAC from 75% to 100% for a purchase price of $633 million. As a result of the sale of our interest in BAC, we recognized an after-tax gain of $780 million in
2010.      BAC revenues from discontinued operations were $983 million, $943 million and $159 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In total, BAC
earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes were $854 million, $292 million and $89 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         (113)   

Table of Contents  

    GE Money Japan    
  During the third quarter of 2007, we committed to a plan to sell our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, upon determining that, despite restructuring, Japanese
regulatory limits for interest charges on unsecured personal loans did not permit us to earn an acceptable return. During the third quarter of 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which included Lake, along with our Japanese mortgage and
card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. As a result, we recognized an after-tax loss of $908 million in 2007 and an incremental loss of $361 million in 2008. In connection with the sale, we reduced the proceeds on the
sale for estimated interest refund claims in excess of the statutory interest rate. Proceeds from the sale were to be increased or decreased based on the actual claims experienced in accordance with loss-sharing terms specified in the sale
agreement, with all claims in excess of 258 billion Japanese Yen (approximately $3,000 million) remaining our responsibility. The underlying portfolio to which this obligation relates is in runoff and interest rates were capped for all designated
accounts by mid-2009. In the third quarter of 2010, we began making reimbursements under this arrangement.      Our overall claims experience developed
unfavorably through 2010. While our average daily claims continued to decline through August 2010, the pace of the decline was slower than expected, and claims severity increased. We believe that the level of excess interest refund claims has been
impacted by the challenging global economic conditions, in addition to Japanese legislative and regulatory changes. We accrued $566 million of incremental reserves for these claims during the first six months of 2010, in addition to the third
quarter charge discussed below.      Significantly, in September 2010, a large independent personal loan company in Japan filed for bankruptcy, which
precipitated a significant amount of publicity surrounding excess interest refund claims in the Japanese marketplace, along with substantial legal advertising. We observed an increase in claims during September 2010 and higher average daily claims
in the fourth quarter of 2010. Based on these factors and additional analysis, we recorded an adjustment to our reserves of $1,100 million in the third quarter of 2010 to bring the reserve to a better estimate of our probable loss. This adjustment
primarily reflects revisions in our assumptions and calculations of the number of estimated probable future incoming claims, increases in claims severity assumptions, reflecting recent trends in amounts paid per claim, and higher estimates of loss
for claims in process of settlement. As of December 31, 2010, our reserve for reimbursement of claims in excess of the statutory interest rate was $1,465 million.      The amount of these reserves is based on analyses of recent and historical claims experience, pending and estimated future excess interest refund requests, the estimated percentage of customers who present valid
requests, and our estimated payments related to those requests. Our estimated liability for excess interest refund claims at December 31, 2010 assumes the pace of incoming claims will decelerate, average exposure per claim remains consistent
with recent experience, and we see the impact of our loss mitigation efforts. Estimating the pace of decline in incoming claims can have a significant effect on the total amount of our liability. For example, our third quarter 2010 estimate assumes
incoming average daily claims will decline at a long-term average rate of 4% monthly. Holding all other assumptions constant, if claims declined at a rate of one percent higher or lower than assumed, our liability estimate would change by
approximately $250 million.      Uncertainties around the impact of laws and regulations, challenging economic conditions, the runoff status of the
underlying book of business and the effects of our mitigation efforts make it difficult to develop a meaningful estimate of the aggregate possible claims exposure. Recent trends, including the effect of governmental actions, market activity
regarding other personal loan companies and consumer activity, may continue to have an adverse effect on claims development.      GE Money Japan revenues
from discontinued operations were an insignificant amount in both 2010 and 2009, respectively, and $763 million in 2008. In total, GE Money Japan losses from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $1,671 million, $158 million and $651 million
for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         (114)   

Table of Contents  

    WMC       During the
fourth quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of WMC, our U.S. mortgage business. WMC substantially discontinued all new loan originations by the second quarter of 2007, and is not a loan servicer. In connection with the sale, WMC retained certain
obligations related to loans sold prior to the disposal of the business, including WMC s contractual obligations to repurchase previously sold loans as to which there was an early payment default or with respect to which certain contractual
representations and warranties were not met. All claims received for early payment default have either been resolved or are no longer being pursued.   
  Pending claims for unmet representations and warranties have declined from approximately $800 million at December 31, 2009 to approximately $350 million at
December 31, 2010. Reserves related to these contractual representations and warranties were $101 million at December 31, 2010, and $205 million at December 31, 2009. The amount of these reserves is based upon pending and estimated
future loan repurchase requests, the estimated percentage of loans validly tendered for repurchase, and our estimated losses on loans repurchased. Based on our historical experience, we estimate that a small percentage of the total loans WMC
originated and sold will be tendered for repurchase, and of those tendered, only a limited amount will qualify as  validly tendered,  meaning the loans sold did not satisfy specified contractual obligations. New claims received over the
past three years have declined from $859 million in 2008 to $320 million in 2010. WMC s current reserve represents our best estimate of losses with respect to WMC s repurchase obligations. Actual losses could exceed the reserve amount if
actual claim rates, valid tenders or losses WMC incurs on repurchased loans are higher than historically observed.      WMC revenues from discontinued
operations were $(4) million, $2 million and $(71) million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In total, WMC s losses from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $7 million, $1 million and $41 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.       Other Financial Services       In the
fourth quarter of 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our Consumer RV Marine portfolio and Consumer Mexico business. Consumer RV Marine revenues from discontinued operations were $210 million, $260 million and $296 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively. Consumer RV Marine losses from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $99 million, $83 million and $58 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Consumer Mexico revenues from discontinued operations were $228 million,
$303 million and $479 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Consumer Mexico earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $(59) million, $66 million and $31 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
   GE Industrial       GE industrial earnings (loss) from
discontinued operations, net of taxes, were $(4) million, $(18) million and $40 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The sum of GE Industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes, and GECS earnings (loss) from
discontinued operations, net of taxes, is reported as GE Industrial earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of taxes on the Statement of Earnings.      Assets of GE industrial discontinued operations were $50 million at both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Liabilities of GE industrial discontinued operations were $164 million and $163 million at December 31,
2010 and 2009, respectively, and primarily represent taxes payable and pension liabilities related to the sale of our Plastics business in 2007.   
         (115)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 3. INVESTMENT SECURITIES       Substantially all of our investment securities are classified as available-for-sale. These comprise mainly investment grade debt securities supporting obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run-off
insurance operations and holders of guaranteed investment contracts (GICs) in Trinity (which ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in the first quarter of 2010), and investment securities held at our global banks. We do not have any
securities classified as held to maturity.       

(a)  
  Substantially collateralized by U.S. mortgages. Of our total residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) portfolio at December 31, 2010, $1,318 million relates to
securities issued by government-sponsored entities and $1,491 million relates to securities of private label issuers. Securities issued by private label issuers are collateralized primarily by pools of individual direct mortgage loans of financial
institutions.     
    The fair value of investment securities decreased to $43,938 million at December 31, 2010, from $51,343 million at December 31,
2009, primarily driven by a decrease in retained interests that were consolidated as a result of our adoption of ASU 2009-16   17 and maturities, partially offset by improved market conditions.   
         (116)   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables present the gross unrealized losses and estimated fair values of our available-for-sale
investment securities.       

(a)  
  At December 31, 2010, other-than-temporary impairments previously recognized through other comprehensive income (OCI) on securities still held amounted to $(478) million, of
which $(368) million related to RMBS. Gross unrealized losses related to those securities at December 31, 2010 amounted to $(328) million, of which $(232) million related to RMBS.     
  We adopted amendments to ASC 320 and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to increase retained earnings by $62 million as of April 1, 2009.   
  We regularly review investment securities for impairment using both qualitative and quantitative criteria. We presently do not intend to sell our debt securities
and believe that it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities that are in an unrealized loss position before recovery of our amortized cost. We believe that the unrealized loss associated with our equity
securities will be recovered within the foreseeable future.      The vast majority of our U.S. corporate debt securities are rated investment grade by the
major rating agencies. We evaluate U.S. corporate debt securities based on a variety of factors, such as the financial health of and specific prospects for the issuer, including whether the issuer is in compliance with the terms and covenants of the
security. In the event a U.S. corporate debt security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, we isolate the credit portion of the impairment by comparing the present value of our expectation of cash flows to the amortized cost of the
security. We discount the cash flows using the original effective interest rate of the security.   
         (117)   

Table of Contents  

   The vast majority of our RMBS have investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies and are in a senior
position in the capital structure of the deal. Of our total RMBS at December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately $673 million and $897 million, respectively, relate to residential subprime credit, primarily supporting our guaranteed investment
contracts. These are collateralized primarily by pools of individual, direct mortgage loans (a majority of which were originated in 2006 and 2005), not other structured products such as collateralized debt obligations. In addition, of the total
residential subprime credit exposure at December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately $343 million and $456 million, respectively, was insured by Monoline insurers (Monolines) on which we continue to place reliance.   
  The vast majority of our commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) also have investment grade credit ratings from the major rating agencies and are in a senior
position in the capital structure of the deal. Our CMBS investments are collateralized by both diversified pools of mortgages that were originated for securitization (conduit CMBS) and pools of large loans backed by high-quality properties (large
loan CMBS), a majority of which were originated in 2006 and 2007.      Our asset-backed securities (ABS) portfolio is collateralized by a variety of
diversified pools of assets such as student loans and credit cards, as well as large senior secured loans targeting high-quality, middle-market companies in a variety of industries. The vast majority of our ABS securities are in a senior position in
the capital structure of the deal. In addition, substantially all of the securities that are below investment grade are in an unrealized gain position.   
  For ABS, including RMBS, we estimate the portion of loss attributable to credit using a discounted cash flow model that considers estimates of cash flows generated
from the underlying collateral. Estimates of cash flows consider internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment assumptions that incorporate management s best estimate of key assumptions, including default rates, loss severity and
prepayment rates. For CMBS, we estimate the portion of loss attributable to credit by evaluating potential losses on each of the underlying loans in the security. Collateral cash flows are considered in the context of our position in the capital
structure of the deal. Assumptions can vary widely depending upon the collateral type, geographic concentrations and vintage.      If there has been an
adverse change in cash flows for RMBS, management considers credit enhancements such as monoline insurance (which are features of a specific security). In evaluating the overall credit worthiness of the Monoline, we use an analysis that is similar
to the approach we use for corporate bonds, including an evaluation of the sufficiency of the Monoline s cash reserves and capital, ratings activity, whether the Monoline is in default or default appears imminent, and the potential for
intervention by an insurer or other regulator.      During 2010, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $460 million, of which $253 million was
recorded through earnings ($35 million relates to equity securities) and $207 million was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). At January 1, 2010, cumulative impairments recognized in earnings associated with debt
securities still held were $340 million. During 2010, we recognized first time impairments of $164 million and incremental charges on previously impaired securities of $38 million. These amounts included $41 million related to securities that were
subsequently sold.      During 2009, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $1,078 million, of which $753 million was recorded through earnings
($42 million relates to equity securities), and $325 million was recorded in AOCI.      During 2009, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $1,078
million, of which $33 million was reclassified to retained earnings at April 1, 2009, as a result of the amendments to ASC 320. Subsequent to April 1, 2009, first time and incremental credit impairments were $109 million and $257 million,
respectively. Previous credit impairments related to securities sold were $124 million.   
         (118)   

Table of Contents  

    Contractual Maturities of GECS Investment in Available-for Sale Debt Securities (Excluding Mortgage-Backed and
Asset-Backed Securities)        
    We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual
maturities because borrowers have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.      Supplemental information about gross realized gains and losses on
available-for-sale investment securities follows.       
    Although we generally do not have the intent to sell any specific securities at the end of the period, in the ordinary course of
managing our investment securities portfolio, we may sell securities prior to their maturities for a variety of reasons, including diversification, credit quality, yield and liquidity requirements and the funding of claims and obligations to
policyholders. In some of our bank subsidiaries, we maintain a certain level of purchases and sales volume principally of non-U.S. government debt securities. In these situations, fair value approximates carrying value for these securities.
     Proceeds from investment securities sales and early redemptions by issuers totaled $16,238 million, $7,823 million and $3,942 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively, principally from the sales of short-term securities in our bank subsidiaries in 2010 and 2009 and securities that supported the guaranteed investment contract portfolio in 2008.   
  We recognized a pre-tax loss on trading securities of $7 million and pre-tax gains of $408 million and $108 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Investments in retained interests decreased $291 million and $113 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively, reflecting changes in fair value. Effective January 1, 2010, with the adoption of ASU 2009-16   17, we no longer have any
retained interests that are recorded at fair value through earnings.   
         (119)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 4. CURRENT RECEIVABLES    

(a)  
  Included GE industrial customer receivables factored through a GECS affiliate and reported as financing receivables by GECS. See Note 27.     
  GE current receivables balances at December 31, 2010 and 2009, before allowance for losses, included $8,134 million and $7,455 million, respectively, from
sales of goods and services to customers, and $24 million and $37 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, from transactions with associated companies.      GE current receivables of $193 million and $104 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, arose from sales, principally of Aviation goods and services, on open account to various agencies of the
U.S. government. About 5% of GE sales of goods and services were to the U.S. government in 2010, compared with 6% in 2009 and 5% in 2008.   

      NOTE 5. INVENTORIES        
 
         (120)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 6. GECS FINANCING RECEIVABLES AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON FINANCING RECEIVABLES    

GECS financing receivables
include both loans and financing leases. Loans represent transactions in a variety of forms, including revolving charge and credit, mortgages, installment loans, intermediate-term loans and revolving loans secured by business assets. The portfolio
includes loans carried at the principal amount on which finance charges are billed periodically, and loans carried at gross book value, which includes finance charges.      Investment in financing leases consists of direct financing and leveraged leases of aircraft, railroad rolling stock, autos, other transportation equipment, data processing equipment, medical equipment, commercial
real estate and other manufacturing, power generation, and commercial equipment and facilities.      For federal income tax purposes, the leveraged leases
and the majority of the direct financing leases are leases in which GECS depreciates the leased assets and is taxed upon the accrual of rental income. Certain direct financing leases are loans for federal income tax purposes. For these transactions,
GECS is taxable only on the portion of each payment that constitutes interest, unless the interest is tax-exempt (e.g., certain obligations of state governments).      Investment in direct financing and leveraged leases represents net unpaid rentals and estimated unguaranteed residual values of leased equipment, less related deferred income. GECS has no general obligation for
principal and interest on notes and other instruments representing third-party participation related to leveraged leases; such notes and other instruments have not been included in liabilities but have been offset against the related rentals
receivable. The GECS share of rentals receivable on leveraged leases is subordinate to the share of other participants who also have security interests in the leased equipment. For federal income tax purposes, GECS is entitled to deduct the interest
expense accruing on non-recourse financing related to leveraged leases.   
         (121)   

Table of Contents  

    Net Investment in Financing Leases    

Contractual Maturities    
   
    We expect actual maturities to differ from contractual maturities.   
         (122)   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables provide additional information about our financing receivables and related activity in the
allowance for losses for our Commercial, Real Estate and Consumer portfolios.       Financing Receivables   net    
  The following table displays our Financing Receivables balances.       

(b)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS) to CLL and the Consumer business in
Italy from Consumer to CLL. Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.     

(c)  
  Primarily consisted of loans and financing leases in former consolidated, liquidating, securitization entities, which became wholly owned affiliates in December 2010.
    
         (123)   

Table of Contents  

    Allowance for Losses on Financing Receivables       The following tables provide a roll-forward of our Allowance for Losses on Financing Receivables.       

(b)  
  Other primarily included the effects of currency exchange.     

(c)  
  Net write-offs (write-offs less recoveries) in certain portfolios may exceed the beginning allowance for losses as our revolving credit portfolios turn over more than once per
year or, in all portfolios, can reflect losses that are incurred subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year due to information becoming available during the current year, which may identify further deterioration on existing financing
receivables.     

(d)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL.
Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.     
         (124)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Other primarily included the effects of securitization activity and currency exchange.     

(b)  
  Net write-offs (write-offs less recoveries) in certain portfolios may exceed the beginning allowance for losses as our revolving credit portfolios turn over more than once per
year or, in all portfolios, can reflect losses that are incurred subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year due to information becoming available during the current year, which may identify further deterioration on existing financing
receivables.     

(c)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL.
Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.     
         (125)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Other primarily included the effects of securitization activity and currency exchange.     

(b)  
  Net write-offs (write-offs less recoveries) in certain portfolios may exceed the beginning allowance for losses as our revolving credit portfolios turn over more than once per
year or, in all portfolios, can reflect losses that are incurred subsequent to the beginning of the fiscal year due to information becoming available during the current year, which may identify further deterioration on existing financing
receivables.     

(c)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL.
Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.        See Note 23 for supplemental information about the
credit quality of financing receivables and allowance for losses on financing receivables.   
         (126)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 7. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT    

(a)  
  Depreciable lives exclude land.     

(c)  
  The GECAS business of GE Capital recognized impairment losses of $438 million in 2010 and $127 million in 2009 recorded in the caption  Other costs and expenses  in the
Statement of Earnings to reflect adjustments to fair value based on an evaluation of average current market values (obtained from third parties) of similar type and age aircraft, which are adjusted for the attributes of the specific aircraft under
lease.        Consolidated depreciation and amortization related to property, plant and equipment was $10,013 million, $10,619 million and
$11,481 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         (127)   

Table of Contents  

   Amortization of GECS equipment leased to others was $6,786 million, $7,179 million and $8,173 million in 2010, 2009
and 2008, respectively. Noncancellable future rentals due from customers for equipment on operating leases at December 31, 2010, are as follows:       

NOTE 8. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS    
   
    Changes in goodwill balances follow.       
 
         (128)   

Table of Contents  

   Upon closing an acquisition, we estimate the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired and consolidate the
acquisition as quickly as possible. Given the time it takes to obtain pertinent information to finalize the acquired company s balance sheet, then to adjust the acquired company s accounting policies, procedures, and books and records to
our standards, it is often several quarters before we are able to finalize those initial fair value estimates. Accordingly, it is not uncommon for our initial estimates to be subsequently revised.   
  Goodwill related to new acquisitions in 2010 was $507 million and included the acquisition of Clarient, Inc. ($425 million) at Technology Infrastructure. Goodwill
balances decreased $603 million during 2010, primarily as a result of the deconsolidation of Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency) at GE Capital ($557 million) and the stronger U.S. dollar ($260 million).   
  Goodwill related to new acquisitions in 2009 was $3,418 million and included acquisitions of Interbanca S.p.A. ($1,394 million) and BAC ($1,083 million) at GE
Capital and Airfoils Technologies International   Singapore Pte. Ltd. (ATI-Singapore) ($342 million) at Technology Infrastructure. During 2009, the goodwill balance increased by $128 million related to acquisition accounting adjustments for
prior-year acquisitions. The most significant of these adjustments was an increase of $180 million associated with the 2008 acquisition of CitiCapital at GE Capital, partially offset by a decrease of $141 million associated with the 2008 acquisition
of Hydril Pressure Control by Energy Infrastructure. Also during 2009, goodwill balances decreased $20,094 million, primarily as a result of NBCU and our Security business being classified as held for sale ($19,001 million) and ($1,077 million),
respectively, by the deconsolidation of Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) ($634 million) at GE Capital and the disposition of 81% of GE Homeland Protection, Inc. ($423 million), partially offset by the weaker U.S. dollar ($1,666 million).
     On May 26, 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency, a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a 21% limited
partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency and the remeasurement of our limited partnership interest to fair value. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $119 million, which is reported in GECS revenues from services.   
  On June 25, 2009, we increased our ownership in BAC from 49.99% to 75% for a purchase price of $623 million following the terms of our 2006 investment
agreement (BAC Investment Agreement) with the then controlling shareholder. At that time, we remeasured our previously held equity investment to fair value, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $343 million. This transaction required us to consolidate
BAC, which was previously accounted for under the equity method.      In accordance with our stated plan to reduce GE Capital ending net investment, we
exited this business during 2010, and completed the sale of BAC for $1,920 million in December 2010. In accordance with the terms of the BAC Investment Agreement and prior to completing the sale, we acquired the remaining 25% interest in BAC for a
purchase price of $633 million. As a result of the sale of our 100% ownership interest in BAC, we recognized an after-tax gain of $780 million in 2010, which was recorded in discontinued operations. Goodwill related to new acquisitions in 2009
includes $1,083 million related to BAC, which represents the difference between the amount of goodwill initially recorded in 2009 upon BAC consolidation ($1,605 million), and the amount of goodwill reclassified to discontinued operations based on a
relative fair value allocation ($522 million), as required under ASC 350-20-35.      On March 20, 2009, we increased our ownership in ATI-Singapore
from 49% to 100% and concurrently acquired from the same seller a controlling financial interest in certain affiliates. We remeasured our previous equity interests to fair value, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $254 million, which is reported in
other income.   
         (129)   

Table of Contents  

   We test goodwill for impairment annually and more frequently if circumstances warrant. We determine fair values for
each of the reporting units using an income approach. When available and appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to corroborate discounted cash flow results. For purposes of the income approach, fair value is determined based on the present
value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and include an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on our most recent views of the
long-term outlook for each business. Actual results may differ from those assumed in our forecasts. We derive our discount rates using a capital asset pricing model and analyzing published rates for industries relevant to our reporting units to
estimate the cost of equity financing. We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective businesses and in our internally developed forecasts. Discount rates used in our reporting unit valuations
ranged from 9% to 14.5%. Valuations using the market approach reflect prices and other relevant observable information generated by market transactions involving comparable businesses.      Compared to the market approach, the income approach more closely aligns each reporting unit valuation to our business profile, including geographic markets served and product offerings. Required rates of return,
along with uncertainty inherent in the forecasts of future cash flows, are reflected in the selection of the discount rate. Equally important, under this approach, reasonably likely scenarios and associated sensitivities can be developed for
alternative future states that may not be reflected in an observable market price. A market approach allows for comparison to actual market transactions and multiples. It can be somewhat more limited in its application because the population of
potential comparables is often limited to publicly-traded companies where the characteristics of the comparative business and ours can be significantly different, market data is usually not available for divisions within larger conglomerates or
non-public subsidiaries that could otherwise qualify as comparable, and the specific circumstances surrounding a market transaction (e.g., synergies between the parties, terms and conditions of the transaction, etc.) may be different or irrelevant
with respect to our business. It can also be difficult, under certain market conditions, to identify orderly transactions between market participants in similar businesses. We assess the valuation methodology based upon the relevance and
availability of the data at the time we perform the valuation and weight the methodologies appropriately.      We performed our annual impairment test of
goodwill for all of our reporting units in the third quarter using data as of July 1, 2010. The impairment test consists of two steps: in step one, the carrying value of the reporting unit is compared with its fair value; in step two, which is
applied when the carrying value is more than its fair value, the amount of goodwill impairment, if any, is derived by deducting the fair value of the reporting unit s assets and liabilities from the fair value of its equity, and comparing that
amount with the carrying amount of goodwill. In performing the valuations, we used cash flows that reflected management s forecasts and discount rates that included risk adjustments consistent with the current market conditions. Based on the
results of our step one testing, the fair values of each of the GE Industrial reporting units and the CLL, Consumer, Energy Financial Services and GECAS reporting units exceeded their carrying values; therefore, the second step of the impairment
test was not required to be performed and no goodwill impairment was recognized.      Our Real Estate reporting unit had a goodwill balance of $1,089
million at December 31, 2010. As of July 1, 2010, the carrying amount exceeded the estimated fair value of our Real Estate reporting unit by approximately $3.2 billion. The estimated fair value of the Real Estate reporting unit is based on
a number of assumptions about future business performance and investment, including loss estimates for the existing finance receivable and investment portfolio, new debt origination volume and margins, and anticipated stabilization of the real
estate market allowing for sales of real estate investments at normalized margins. Our assumed discount rate was 12% and was derived by applying a capital asset pricing model and corroborated using equity analyst research reports and implied cost of
equity based on forecasted price to earnings per share multiples for similar companies. Given the volatility and uncertainty in the current commercial real estate environment, there is uncertainty about a number of assumptions upon which the
estimated fair value is based. Different loss estimates for the existing portfolio, changes in the new debt origination volume and margin assumptions, changes in the expected pace of the commercial real estate market recovery, or changes in the
equity return expectation of market participants may result in changes in the estimated fair value of the Real Estate reporting unit.   
         (130)   

Table of Contents  

   Based on the results of the step one testing, we performed the second step of the impairment test described above.
Based on the results of the second step analysis for the Real Estate reporting unit, the estimated implied fair value of goodwill exceeded the carrying value of goodwill by approximately $3.5 billion. Accordingly, no goodwill impairment was
required. In the second step, unrealized losses in an entity s assets have the effect of increasing the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. The results of the second step analysis were attributable to several factors. The primary driver
was the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of our Real Estate Equity Investments, which approximated $6.3 billion at that time. Other drivers for the favorable outcome include the unrealized losses in the Real Estate finance
receivable portfolio and the fair value premium on the Real Estate reporting unit allocated debt. The results of the second step analysis are highly sensitive to these measurements, as well as the key assumptions used in determining the estimated
fair value of the Real Estate reporting unit.      Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that
are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. If current conditions persist longer or deteriorate further than expected, it is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future
periods.       Intangible Assets Subject to Amortization        

(a)  
  Balance at December 31, 2010 reflects an adjustment of $423 million to the present value of future profits in our run-off insurance operation to reflect the effects that
would have been recognized had the related unrealized investment securities holding gains and losses actually been realized in accordance with ASC 320-10-S99-2.     
         (131)   

Table of Contents  

   During 2010, we recorded additions to intangible assets subject to amortization of $834 million. The components of
finite-lived intangible assets acquired during 2010 and their respective weighted-average amortizable period are: $113 million   Customer-related (14.8 years); $92 million   Patents, licenses and trademarks (5.6 years); $585 million  
Capitalized software (4.4 years); and $44 million   All other (15.0 years).      Consolidated amortization related to intangible assets subject to
amortization was $1,749 million, $2,085 million and $2,071 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We estimate annual pre-tax amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization over the next five calendar years to be as follows: 2011
  $856 million; 2012   $794 million; 2013   $733 million; 2014   $664 million; and 2015   $557 million.   
         (132)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 9. ALL OTHER ASSETS        

(a)  
  Contract costs and estimated earnings reflect revenues earned in excess of billings on our long-term contracts to construct technically complex equipment (such as power
generation, aircraft engines and aeroderivative units) and long-term product maintenance or extended warranty arrangements.     

(c)  
  GECS investments in real estate consisted principally of two categories: real estate held for investment and equity method investments. Both categories contained a wide range of
properties including the following at December 31, 2010: office buildings (45%), apartment buildings (16%), industrial properties (11%), retail facilities (7%), franchise properties (8%) and other (13%). At December 31, 2010,
investments were located in the Americas (48%), Europe (28%) and Asia (24%).     

(d)  
  The fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss position for less than 12 months at December 31, 2010, were $396 million and $55
million, respectively. The fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more at December 31, 2010, were $16 million and $2 million, respectively. The fair value of and unrealized
loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss position for less than 12 months at December 31, 2009, were $423 million and $67 million, respectively. The fair value of and unrealized loss on cost method investments in a continuous loss
position for 12 months or more at December 31, 2009, were $48 million and $13 million, respectively.     

(e)  
  Assets were classified as held for sale on the date a decision was made to dispose of them through sale or other means. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, such assets consisted
primarily of loans, aircraft, equipment and real estate properties, and were accounted for at the lower of carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell. These amounts are net of valuation allowances of $115 million and $145 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.     

(g)  
  Balance at December 31, 2010 reflects an adjustment of $860 million to deferred acquisition costs in our run-off insurance operation to reflect the effects that would have
been recognized had the related unrealized investment securities holding gains and losses actually been realized in accordance with ASC 320-10-S99-2.     
         (133)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 10. BORROWINGS AND BANK DEPOSITS    

(134)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Based on year-end balances and year-end local currency interest rates. Current portion of long-term debt included the effects of related fair value interest rate and currency
hedges, if any, directly associated with the original debt issuance.     

(c)  
  Included in total long-term borrowings were $2,395 million and $3,138 million of obligations to holders of GICs at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If the long-term
credit rating of GECC were to fall below AA-/Aa3 or its short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GECC could be required to provide up to approximately $2,300 million as of December 31, 2010, to repay holders of GICs.

(e)  
  Entirely variable denomination floating-rate demand notes.     

(g)  
  Subordinated debentures receive rating agency equity credit and were hedged at issuance to the U.S. dollar equivalent of $7,725 million.     

Additional information about borrowings and associated swaps can be found in Note 22.       Liquidity  is affected by debt maturities and our ability to repay or refinance such debt. Long-term debt maturities over the next five years follow.   

(a)  
  Fixed and floating rate notes of $710 million contain put options with exercise dates in 2011, and which have final maturity beyond 2015.     
  Committed credit lines totaling $51.8 billion had been extended to us by 58 banks at year-end 2010. Availability of these lines is shared between GE and GECS with
$10.6 billion and $51.8 billion available to GE and GECS, respectively. The GECS lines include $35.6 billion of revolving credit agreements under which we can borrow funds for periods exceeding one year. Additionally, $16.2 billion are 364-day lines
that contain a term-out feature that allows GE or GECS to extend the borrowings for one year from the date of expiration of the lending agreement. We pay banks for credit facilities, but amounts were insignificant in each of the past three years.
  
         (135)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 11. GECS INVESTMENT CONTRACTS, INSURANCE LIABILITIES AND INSURANCE ANNUITY BENEFITS    
  GECS investment contracts, insurance liabilities and insurance annuity benefits comprise mainly obligations to annuitants and policyholders in our run-off
insurance operations and holders of guaranteed investment contracts.       

(a)  
  Life insurance benefits are accounted for mainly by a net-level-premium method using estimated yields generally ranging from 3.0% to 8.5% in both 2010 and 2009.
       When insurance affiliates cede insurance to third parties, such as reinsurers, they are not relieved of their primary obligation to
policyholders. Losses on ceded risks give rise to claims for recovery; we establish allowances for probable losses on such receivables from reinsurers as required. Reinsurance recoverables are included in the caption  Other GECS
receivables  on our Statement of Financial Position, and amounted to $1,284 million and $1,188 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      We recognize reinsurance recoveries as a reduction of the Statement of Earnings caption  Investment contracts, insurance losses and insurance annuity benefits.  Reinsurance recoveries were $174 million,
$219 million and $221 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   

      NOTE 12. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS        Pension Benefits       We sponsor a number of pension plans. Principal pension plans, together with affiliate and
certain other pension plans (other pension plans) detailed in this note, represent about 99% of our total pension assets. We use a December 31 measurement date for our plans.       Principal Pension Plans  are the GE Pension Plan and the GE Supplementary Pension Plan.      The GE Pension Plan
provides benefits to certain U.S. employees based on the greater of a formula recognizing career earnings or a formula recognizing length of service and final average earnings. Certain benefit provisions are subject to collective bargaining.
Effective January 1, 2011, salaried employees who commence service on or after that date, will not be eligible to participate in the GE Pension Plan, but will participate in a defined contribution retirement plan.   
  The GE Supplementary Pension Plan is an unfunded plan providing supplementary retirement benefits primarily to higher-level, longer-service U.S. employees.
  
         (136)   

Table of Contents  

    Other Pension Plans  in 2010 included 33 U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans with pension assets or obligations
greater than $50 million. These defined benefit plans provide benefits to employees based on formulas recognizing length of service and earnings.   
   Pension Plan Participants        
     Cost of Pension Plans        

(a)  
  In 2009, included a $103 million loss as a result of our agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the NBCU business to a newly formed entity in which we will own a 49%
interest.         Actuarial assumptions  are described below. The actuarial assumptions at December 31 are used to measure the
year-end benefit obligations and the pension costs for the subsequent year.       
    To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension
plan assets, we consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In developing future return expectations for our principal benefit plans  assets, we evaluate
general market trends as well as key elements of asset class returns such as expected earnings growth, yields and spreads. Based on our analysis of future expectations of asset performance, past return results, and our current and expected asset
allocations, we have assumed an 8.0% long-term expected return on those assets for cost recognition in 2011. This is a reduction from the 8.5% we had assumed in 2010, 2009 and 2008. For the principal pension plans, we apply our expected rate of
return to a market-related value of assets, which stabilizes variability in the amounts to which we apply that expected return.      We amortize experience
gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the average future service of employees.   
         (137)   

Table of Contents  

    Funding policy  for the GE Pension Plan is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements
as set forth in employee benefit and tax laws plus such additional amounts as we may determine to be appropriate. We have not made contributions to the GE Pension Plan since 1987 and will not make any such contributions in 2011. In 2011, we expect
to pay approximately $200 million for benefit payments under our GE Supplementary Pension Plan and administrative expenses of our principal pension plans and expect to contribute approximately $670 million to other pension plans. In 2010,
comparative amounts were $183 million and $573 million, respectively.       Benefit obligations  are described in the following tables. Accumulated and
projected benefit obligations (ABO and PBO) represent the obligations of a pension plan for past service as of the measurement date. ABO is the present value of benefits earned to date with benefits computed based on current compensation levels. PBO
is ABO increased to reflect expected future compensation.       Projected Benefit Obligation    

(a)  
  Principally associated with discount rate changes.     
 
   Accumulated Benefit Obligation        
     Plans With Assets Less Than ABO    

(a)  
  Primarily related to the GE Supplementary Pension Plan.         Plan
Assets       The fair value of the classes of the pension plans  investments is presented below. The inputs and valuation techniques used to measure
the fair value of the assets are consistently applied and described in Note 1.   
         (138)   

Table of Contents  

    Fair Value of Plan Assets        
     Asset Allocation        

(a)  
  Target allocations were 17-37% for both U.S. equity securities and non-U.S. equity securities.     

(b)  
  Actual allocations were 26% for U.S. equity securities and 23% for non-U.S. equity securities.        Plan fiduciaries of the GE Pension Plan set investment policies and strategies for the GE Pension Trust and oversee its investment allocation, which includes selecting investment managers, commissioning periodic
asset-liability studies and setting long-term strategic targets. Long-term strategic investment objectives include preserving the funded status of the plan and balancing risk and return. Target allocation percentages are established at an asset
class level by plan fiduciaries. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and occasionally plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target range.      GE Pension Trust assets are invested subject to the following additional guidelines:       

Short-term securities must generally be rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such securities that may be rated A2/P2 and other short-term securities as may
be approved by the plan fiduciaries.          

Real estate investments may not exceed 25% of total assets.          

Investments in restricted securities (excluding real estate investments) that are not freely tradable may not exceed 30% of total assets (actual was 18% of trust
assets at December 31, 2010).         According to statute, the aggregate holdings of all qualifying employer securities (e.g., GE
common stock) and qualifying employer real property may not exceed 10% of the fair value of trust assets at the time of purchase. GE securities represented 3.6% and 3.3% of trust assets at year-end 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         (139)   

Table of Contents  

   The GE Pension Plan has a broadly diversified portfolio of investments in equities, fixed income, private equities,
real estate and hedge funds; these investments are both U.S. and non-U.S. in nature. As of December 31, 2010, no one sector concentration of assets exceeded 15% of total GE Pension Plan assets.   
  The following tables present GE Pension Plan investments measured at fair value.       

(a)  
  Primarily represented investment grade bonds of U.S. issuers from diverse industries.     

(b)  
  Primarily represented investments in non-U.S. corporate bonds and commercial mortgage-backed securities.     

(c)  
  Included direct investments and investment funds.     

(d)  
  Substantially all represented hedge fund investments.     
         (140)   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables present the changes in Level 3 investments for the GE Pension Plan.   
   Changes in Level 3 Investments for the Year Ended December 31, 2010        

(a)  
  Transfers in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the period.     

(b)  
  The net change in unrealized gains (losses) was included in the year-end asset value.         Changes in Level 3 Investments for the Year Ended December 31, 2009        

(a)  
  Transfers in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the period.     

(b)  
  The net change in unrealized gains (losses) was included in the year-end asset value.     
         (141)   

Table of Contents  

   Other pension plans  assets were $7,803 million and $6,919 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Equity and debt securities amounting to $6,938 million and $6,517 million represented approximately 90% and 95% of total investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The plans  investments were classified as 15%
Level 1, 75% Level 2 and 10% Level 3 at December 31, 2010. The plans  investments were classified as 15% Level 1, 80% Level 2 and 5% Level 3 at December 31, 2009. The changes in Level 3 investments were insignificant for the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.       Pension Asset (Liability)    

(a)  
  Fair value of assets less PBO, as shown in the preceding tables.     

(c)  
  For principal pension plans, represents the GE Supplementary Pension Plan liability.        In 2011, we estimate that we will amortize $195 million of prior service cost and $2,285 million of net actuarial loss for the principal pension plans from shareowners  equity into pension cost. For other
pension plans, the estimated prior service cost and net actuarial loss to be amortized in 2011 will be $15 million and $135 million, respectively. Comparable amortized amounts in 2010, respectively, were $238 million and $1,336 million for the
principal pension plans and $14 million and $210 million for other pension plans.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments    
   
     Retiree Health and Life Benefits    
  We sponsor a number of retiree health and life insurance benefit plans (retiree benefit plans). Principal retiree benefit plans are discussed below; other such
plans are not significant individually or in the aggregate. We use a December 31 measurement date for our plans.       Principal Retiree Benefit
Plans  provide health and life insurance benefits to certain employees who retire under the GE Pension Plan with 10 or more years of service. Eligible retirees share in the cost of healthcare benefits. These plans cover approximately 216,000
retirees and dependents.   
         (142)   

Table of Contents  

    Cost of Principal Retiree Benefit Plans    

(a)  
  In 2009, we recognized a $45 million loss as a result of our agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the NBCU business to a newly formed entity in which we will own a 49%
interest. Prior service cost amortization increased by $164 million and net actuarial gain amortization increased by $119 million as a result of this agreement.         Actuarial assumptions  are described below .  The actuarial assumptions at December 31 are used to measure the year-end benefit obligations and the retiree benefit plan costs for the subsequent
year.       

(c)  
  Includes benefits from new healthcare supplier contracts.        To
determine the expected long-term rate of return on retiree life plan assets, we consider current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various categories of plan assets. In developing future return
expectations for retiree benefit plan assets, we evaluate general market trends as well as key elements of asset class returns such as expected earnings growth, yields and spreads. Based on our analysis of future expectations of asset performance,
past return results, and our current and expected asset allocations, we have assumed an 8.0% long-term expected return on those assets for cost recognition in 2011. This is a reduction from the 8.5% we had assumed in 2010, 2009 and 2008. We apply
our expected rate of return to a market-related value of assets, which stabilizes variability in the amounts to which we apply that expected return.      We
amortize experience gains and losses as well as the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and plan provisions over a period no longer than the average future service of employees.       Funding Policy.  We fund retiree health benefits on a pay-as-you-go basis. We expect to contribute approximately $660 million in 2011 to fund such benefits. We fund retiree life insurance benefits at our
discretion.   
         (143)   

Table of Contents  

   Changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for retiree benefit plans follow.   
   Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation (APBO)        

(a)  
  For 2010, included the effects of healthcare reform provisions on our Medicare-approved prescription drug plan.     

(b)  
  For 2009, included a $152 million reduction in APBO as a result of our agreement with Comcast Corporation to transfer the NBCU business to a newly formed entity in which we will
own a 49% interest.     

A one percentage point change in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the following effects.   
   
     Plan Assets    
  The fair value of the classes of retiree benefit plans  investments is presented below. The inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of
assets are consistently applied and described in Note 1.       Fair Value of Plan Assets    

(a)  
  Net of Medicare Part D subsidy.     
         (144)   

Table of Contents  

    Asset Allocation        

(b)  
  Actual allocations were 25% for U.S. equity securities and 19% for non-U.S. equity securities.        Plan fiduciaries set investment policies and strategies for the trust and oversee its investment allocation, which includes selecting investment managers and setting long-term strategic targets. The primary
long-term strategic investment objective is balancing investment risk and return. Target allocation percentages are established at an asset class level by plan fiduciaries. Target allocation ranges are guidelines, not limitations, and occasionally
plan fiduciaries will approve allocations above or below a target range.      Trust assets invested in short-term securities must generally be invested in
securities rated A1/P1 or better, except for 15% of such securities that may be rated A2/P2 and other short-term securities as may be approved by the plan fiduciaries. According to statute, the aggregate holdings of all qualifying employer
securities (e.g., GE common stock) and qualifying employer real property may not exceed 10% of the fair value of trust assets at the time of purchase. GE securities represented 4.5% and 3.7% of trust assets at year-end 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     Retiree life plan assets were $1,125 million and $1,138 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Equity and debt securities amounting
to $942 million and $959 million represented approximately 78% and 80% of total investments at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The plans  investments were classified as 39% Level 1, 39% Level 2 and 22% Level 3 at
December 31, 2010. The plans  investments were classified as 42% Level 1, 37% Level 2 and 21% Level 3 at December 31, 2009. The changes in Level 3 investments were insignificant for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.
      Retiree Benefit Asset (Liability)        

(a)  
  Fair value of assets less APBO, as shown in the preceding tables.     
         (145)   

Table of Contents  

   In 2011, we estimate that we will amortize $630 million of prior service cost and $110 million of net actuarial gain
from shareowners  equity into retiree benefit plans cost. Comparable amortized amounts in 2010 were $631 million of prior service cost and $22 million of net actuarial gains.       Estimated Future Benefit Payments        
     Postretirement Benefit Plans    
   2010 Cost of Postretirement Benefit Plans and Changes in Other Comprehensive Income    

(146)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 13. ALL OTHER LIABILITIES       This caption includes liabilities for various items including non-current compensation and benefits, deferred income, interest on tax liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits, environmental remediation, asset
retirement obligations, derivative instruments, product warranties and a variety of sundry items.      Accruals for non-current compensation and benefits
amounted to $25,356 million and $24,921 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These amounts include postretirement benefits, pension accruals, and other compensation and benefit accruals such as deferred incentive compensation.
     We are involved in numerous remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs
exclude possible insurance recoveries and, when dates and amounts of such costs are not known, are not discounted. When there appears to be a range of possible costs with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the low end of such range.
     In 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to dredge PCB-containing sediment from the upper Hudson River.
The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The
panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decisions setting forth the final
performance standards for Phase 2 of the dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we agreed with EPA to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the
final performance standards set by EPA. We have reviewed EPA s final performance standards for Phase 2 to assess the potential scope and duration of Phase 2, as well as operational and engineering changes that could be required. Based on this
review and our best professional engineering judgment, we increased our reserve for the probable and estimable costs for completing the Hudson River dredging project by $845 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.   
  Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop a meaningful estimate of
the reasonably possible aggregate environmental remediation exposure; these costs could differ from our current estimates. Total reserves related to environmental remediation, including asbestos claims, were $3,510 million at December 31, 2010.

NOTE 14. INCOME TAXES        Provision for Income Taxes        
 
         (147)   

Table of Contents  

   GE and GECS file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. This enables GE to use GECS tax deductions and credits
to reduce the tax that otherwise would have been payable by GE. The GECS effective tax rate for each period reflects the benefit of these tax reductions in the consolidated return. GE makes cash payments to GECS for these tax reductions at the time
GE s tax payments are due. The effect of GECS on the amount of the consolidated tax liability from the formation of the NBCU joint venture will be settled in cash when it otherwise would have reduced the liability of the group absent the tax on
formation.      Consolidated U.S. earnings (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes were $5,078 million in 2010, $(212) million in 2009 and
$2,956 million in 2008. The corresponding amounts for non-U.S.-based operations were $9,130 million in 2010, $10,207 million in 2009 and $16,814 million in 2008.      Consolidated current tax expense includes amounts applicable to U.S. federal income taxes of a benefit of $3,253 million, $833 million and $651 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to the benefit
from GECS deductions and credits in excess of GE s current U.S. tax expense. Consolidated current tax expense amounts applicable to non-U.S. jurisdictions were $3,258 million, $2,385 million and $3,027 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Consolidated deferred taxes related to U.S. federal income taxes were an expense of $2,099 million in 2010 and a benefit of $2,501 million and $836 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and amounts applicable to non-U.S.
jurisdictions of a benefit of $1,167 million, $264 million and $499 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      Deferred income tax balances reflect
the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes
are actually paid or recovered. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the
adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a
deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established.      Our businesses are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S.
federal, state and foreign tax laws, regulations and policies. Changes to these laws or regulations may affect our tax liability, return on investments and business operations. For example, GE s effective tax rate is reduced because active
business income earned and indefinitely reinvested outside the United States is taxed at less than the U.S. rate. A significant portion of this reduction depends upon a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of U.S. tax on certain
active financial services income until that income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision is consistent with international tax norms and permits U.S. financial services companies to compete more effectively with foreign
banks and other foreign financial institutions in global markets. This provision, which expires at the end of 2011, has been scheduled to expire and has been extended by Congress on six previous occasions, including in December of 2010, but there
can be no assurance that it will continue to be extended. In the event the provision is not extended after 2011, the current U.S. tax imposed on active financial services income earned outside the United States would increase, making it more
difficult for U.S. financial services companies to compete in global markets. If this provision is not extended, we expect our effective tax rate to increase significantly after 2012.      We have not provided U.S. deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated companies that have been reinvested indefinitely. These earnings relate to ongoing operations and, at
December 31, 2010, were approximately $94 billion. Most of these earnings have been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations and we do not intend to repatriate these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Because of the availability of U.S.
foreign tax credits, it is not practicable to determine the U.S. federal income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not reinvested indefinitely. Deferred taxes are provided for earnings of non-U.S. affiliates and associated
companies when we plan to remit those earnings.   
         (148)   

Table of Contents  

   During 2009, following the change in our external credit ratings, funding actions taken and review of our operations,
liquidity and funding, we determined that undistributed prior-year earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of GECS, on which we had previously provided deferred U.S. taxes, would be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. This change increased the amount
of prior-year earnings indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $2 billion, resulting in an income tax benefit of $700 million in 2009.   
  During 2008, because the use of foreign tax credits no longer required the repatriation of prior-year earnings, we increased the amount of prior-year earnings that
were indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. by approximately $1 billion, resulting in an income tax benefit of $350 million.      Annually, we file over
6,400 income tax returns in over 250 global taxing jurisdictions. We are under examination or engaged in tax litigation in many of these jurisdictions. During 2010, the IRS completed the audit of our consolidated U.S. income tax returns for
2003-2005. At December 31, 2010, the IRS was auditing our consolidated U.S. income tax returns for 2006-2007. In addition, certain other U.S. tax deficiency issues and refund claims for previous years were unresolved. The IRS has disallowed the
tax loss on our 2003 disposition of ERC Life Reinsurance Corporation. We expect to contest the disallowance of this loss. It is reasonably possible that the 2006-2007 U.S. audit cycle will be completed during the next 12 months, which could result
in a decrease in our balance of  unrecognized tax benefits    that is, the aggregate tax effect of differences between tax return positions and the benefits recognized in our financial statements. We believe that there are no other
jurisdictions in which the outcome of unresolved issues or claims is likely to be material to our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. We further believe that we have made adequate provision for all income tax uncertainties.
Resolution of audit matters, including the IRS audit of our consolidated U.S. income tax returns for 2003-2005, reduced our 2010 consolidated effective tax rate by 5.9 percentage points.      The balance of unrecognized tax benefits, the amount of related interest and penalties we have provided and what we believe to be the range of reasonably possible changes in the next 12 months, were:   

(a)  
  Some portion of such reduction might be reported as discontinued operations.        A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:       
 
         (149)   

Table of Contents  

   We classify interest on tax deficiencies as interest expense; we classify income tax penalties as provision for income
taxes. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, $75 million of interest income and $172 million and $268 million of interest expense, respectively, and $5 million, $14 million and $19 million of tax expenses related to penalties,
respectively, were recognized in the Statement of Earnings.      A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the actual income tax
rate is provided below.       Reconciliation of U.S. Federal Statutory Income Tax Rate to Actual Income Tax Rate    

(a)  
  2009 included (7.0)% and 27.4% from indefinite reinvestment of prior-year earnings for consolidated and GECS, respectively.     

(b)  
  2008 included (1.8)% and (6.2)% from indefinite reinvestment of prior-year earnings for consolidated and GECS, respectively.     
   Deferred Income Taxes       Aggregate deferred income tax amounts
are summarized below.       
 
         (150)   

Table of Contents  

   Principal components of our net liability (asset) representing deferred income tax balances are as follows:

(a)  
  Represented the tax effects of temporary differences related to expense accruals for a wide variety of items, such as employee compensation and benefits, pension plan
liabilities, interest on tax liabilities, product warranties and other sundry items that are not currently deductible.     
 
         (151)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 15. SHAREOWNERS  EQUITY    

(a)  
  Additions resulting from issuances in 2008 were inconsequential for preferred stock and $33 million for common stock.     

(e)  
  Includes adjustments of $1,171 million as of December 31, 2010 to deferred acquisition costs, present value of future profits, and investment contracts, insurance
liabilities and insurance annuity benefits in our run-off insurance operation to reflect the effects that would have been recognized had the related unrealized investment securities holding gains and losses actually been realized in accordance with
ASC 320-10-S99-2.     

(f)  
  For 2010, included $(3) million of prior service costs for plan amendments, $513 million of amortization of prior service costs, $(487) million of gains (losses) arising during
the year and $1,056 million of amortization of gains (losses)   net of deferred taxes of $1 million, $346 million, $(261) million and $486 million, respectively. For 2009, included $(9) million of prior service costs for plan amendments, $814
million of amortization of prior service costs, $(2,793) million of gains (losses) arising during the year and $184 million of amortization of gains (losses)   net of deferred taxes of $(10) million, $434 million, $(528) million and $99
million, respectively. For 2008, included $(43) million of prior service costs for plan amendments, $534 million of amortization of prior service costs, $(13,980) million of gains (losses) arising during the year and $201 million of amortization of
gains (losses)   net of deferred taxes of $(24) million, $441 million, $(7,893) million and $97 million, respectively.     
         (152)   

Table of Contents  

(g)  
  The 2010 opening balance was adjusted as of January 1, 2010, for the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles of $1,708 million related to the adoption of ASU
2009-16   17. The 2009 opening balance was adjusted as of April 1, 2009, for the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles of $62 million related to adopting amendments on impairment guidance in ASC 320,  Investments
  Debt and Equity Securities . The cumulative effect of adopting ASC 825,  Financial Instruments , at January 1, 2008, was insignificant.     

(i)  
  Included the effects of accretion of redeemable securities to their redemption value of $38 million and $(62) million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.     
   Shares of GE Preferred Stock       On October 16, 2008, we
issued 30,000 shares of 10% cumulative perpetual preferred stock (par value $1.00 per share) having an aggregate liquidation value of $3.0 billion, and warrants to purchase 134,831,460 shares of common stock (par value $0.06 per share) for aggregate
proceeds of $3.0 billion in cash. The proceeds were allocated to the preferred shares ($2.5 billion) and the warrants ($0.5 billion) on a relative fair value basis and recorded in other capital. The preferred stock is redeemable at our option three
years after issuance at a price of 110% of liquidation value plus accrued and unpaid dividends. The warrants are exercisable for five years at an exercise price of $22.25 per share of common stock and are settled through physical share issuance.
Upon redemption of the preferred shares, the difference between the redemption amount and the carrying amount of the preferred stock will be recorded as a reduction of retained earnings and considered a deemed dividend for purposes of computing
earnings per share.       Shares of GE Common Stock    
  On September 25, 2008, we suspended our three-year, $15 billion share repurchase program, which was initiated in December 2007. On July 23, 2010, we
extended the program which would have otherwise expired on December 31, 2010, through 2013 and we resumed purchases under the program in the third quarter of 2010. Under this program, on a book basis, we repurchased 111.2 million shares
for a total of $1,814 million during 2010.      On October 7, 2008, GE completed an offering of 547.8 million shares of common stock at a price of
$22.25 per share.      GE has 13.2 billion authorized shares of common stock ($0.06 par value).      Common shares issued and outstanding are summarized in the following table.       
 
         (153)   

Table of Contents  

    Noncontrolling Interests       Noncontrolling interests in equity of consolidated affiliates includes common shares in consolidated affiliates and preferred stock issued by affiliates of GECC. Preferred shares that we are required to redeem at a
specified or determinable date are classified as liabilities. The balance is summarized as follows:       

(a)  
  Included noncontrolling interests in partnerships and common shares of consolidated affiliates.     

(b)  
  The preferred stock pays cumulative dividends at an average rate of 6.81%.        Changes to noncontrolling interests are as follows.       

(a)  
  On September 26, 2010, we acquired 7.7% of NBCU s outstanding shares from Vivendi for $2,000 million, of which $1,878 million was recorded as a reduction in
noncontrolling interests and $151 million was recorded as a reduction in additional paid in capital reflecting the amount paid in excess of the carrying value of the noncontrolling interest.     

(b)  
  Includes the effects of deconsolidating both Regency $(979) million during the second quarter of 2010 and Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) $(331) million during the first
quarter of 2009.     

(c)  
  Changes to the individual components of AOCI attributable to noncontrolling interests were insignificant.     

      NOTE 16. OTHER STOCK-RELATED INFORMATION       We grant stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and performance share units (PSUs) to employees under the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan. This plan replaced the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. In addition, we
grant options and RSUs in limited circumstances to consultants, advisors and independent contractors (primarily non-employee talent at NBC Universal) under a plan approved by our Board of Directors in 1997 (the consultants  plan). There are
outstanding grants under one shareowner-approved option plan for non-employee directors. Share requirements for all plans may be met from either unissued or treasury shares. Stock options expire 10 years from the date they are granted and vest over
service periods that range from one to five years. RSUs give the recipients the right to receive shares of our stock upon the vesting of their related restrictions. Restrictions on RSUs vest in various increments and at various dates, beginning
after one year from date of grant through grantee retirement. Although the plan permits us to issue RSUs settleable in cash, we have only issued RSUs settleable in shares of our stock. PSUs give recipients the right to receive shares of our stock
upon the achievement of certain performance targets.      All grants of GE options under all plans must be approved by the Management Development and
Compensation Committee, which consists entirely of independent directors.   
         (154)   

Table of Contents  

    Stock Compensation Plans        

(a)  
  In 2007, the Board of Directors approved the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan). The Plan replaced the 1990 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The maximum number of shares that may
be granted under the Plan is 500 million shares, of which no more than 250 million may be available for awards granted in any form provided under the Plan other than options or stock appreciation rights. The approximate 105.9 million
shares available for grant under the 1990 Plan were retired upon approval of the 2007 Plan. Total shares available for future issuance under the 2007 Plan amounted to 184.8 million shares at December 31, 2010.     

(b)  
  Not applicable.     

(c)  
  Total shares available for future issuance under the consultants  plan amount to 28.2 million shares.     
  Outstanding options expire on various dates through December 9, 2020.      The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 2010.       Stock
Options Outstanding        
    At year-end 2009, options with an average exercise price of $36.94 were exercisable on 147 million shares.   

(a)  
  Average contractual life remaining in years.     
         (155)   

Table of Contents  

    Stock Option Activity        
    We measure the fair value of each stock option grant at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The weighted
average grant-date fair value of options granted during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $4.11, $3.81 and $5.26, respectively. The following assumptions were used in arriving at the fair value of options granted during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively:
risk-free interest rates of 2.9%, 3.2% and 3.4%; dividend yields of 3.9%, 3.9% and 4.4%; expected volatility of 35%, 49% and 27%; and expected lives of six years and eleven months, six years and ten months, and six years and nine months. Risk-free
interest rates reflect the yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities. Expected dividend yields presume a set dividend rate. For stock options granted in 2010, 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008, we used a historical five-year average for the
dividend yield. Expected volatilities are based on implied volatilities from traded options and historical volatility of our stock. The expected option lives are based on our historical experience of employee exercise behavior.   
  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $23 million, an insignificant amount and $45 million, respectively. As of
December 31, 2010, there was $697 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years, of which approximately $236 million, pre tax, is
expected to be recognized in 2011.      Stock option expense recognized in net earnings amounted to $178 million in 2010, $120 million in 2009 and $69
million in 2008. Cash received from option exercises during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $37 million, an insignificant amount and $353 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized from stock options exercised during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $7 million,
an insignificant amount and $15 million, respectively.       Other Stock-based Compensation    

(156)   

Table of Contents  

   The fair value of each restricted stock unit is the market price of our stock on the date of grant. The weighted
average grant date fair value of RSUs granted during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $15.89, $13.63 and $28.74, respectively. The total intrinsic value of RSUs vested during 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounted to $111 million, $139 million and $274 million,
respectively. As of December 31, 2010, there was $334 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSUs. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of two years, of which approximately $147
million, pre tax, is expected to be recognized in 2011. As of December 31, 2010, 0.7 million PSUs with a weighted average remaining contractual term of two years, an aggregate intrinsic value of $13 million and $2 million of unrecognized
compensation cost were outstanding. Other share-based compensation expense for RSUs and PSUs recognized in net earnings amounted to $116 million, $127 million and $155 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
  The total income tax benefit recognized in earnings for all share-based compensation arrangements amounted to $143 million, $118 million and $106 million in 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively.      When stock options are exercised and restricted stock vests, the difference between the assumed tax benefit and the actual
tax benefit must be recognized in our financial statements. In circumstances in which the actual tax benefit is lower than the estimated tax benefit, that difference is recorded in equity, to the extent there are sufficient accumulated excess tax
benefits. At December 31, 2010, our accumulated excess tax benefits are sufficient to absorb any future differences between actual and estimated tax benefits for all of our outstanding option and restricted stock grants.   

      NOTE 17. OTHER INCOME        

(157)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 18. GECS REVENUES FROM SERVICES    

(a)  
  On January 1, 2010, we adopted ASU 2009-16   17 which required us to consolidate substantially all of our former QSPEs. As a result, 2010 GECS revenues from
services include interest, investment and fee income from these entities, which were not presented on a consolidated basis in 2009. During 2010, we recognized no gains from securitization transactions, as they were recorded as on-book financings.
See Note 24.     

(c)  
  Included a gain on the sale of a limited partnership interest in PTL and a related gain on the remeasurement of the retained investment to fair value totaling $296 million in the
first quarter of 2009. See Note 24.     

      NOTE 19. SUPPLEMENTAL COST INFORMATION       We funded research and development expenditures of $3,939 million in 2010, $3,288 million in 2009 and $3,113 million in 2008. Research and development costs are classified in cost of goods sold in the Statement of
Earnings. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $979 million, $1,050 million and $1,287 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
  Rental expense under operating leases is shown below.       
    At December 31, 2010, minimum rental commitments under
noncancellable operating leases aggregated $2,397 million and $2,380 million for GE and GECS, respectively. Amounts payable over the next five years follow.       
    GE s selling, general and administrative expenses totaled
$16,341 million in 2010, $14,842 million in 2009 and $14,401 million in 2008. The increase in 2010 is primarily due to increased selling expenses to support global growth and higher pension costs, partially offset by lower restructuring and other
charges.   
         (158)   

Table of Contents  

   Our Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure segments enter into collaborative arrangements with
manufacturers and suppliers of components used to build and maintain certain engines, aeroderivatives, and turbines, under which GE and these participants share in risks and rewards of these product programs. Under these arrangements, participation
fees earned and recorded as other income totaled $4 million, $1 million and $394 million for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Payments to participants are recorded as costs of services sold ($563 million, $504 million and $423 million
for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) or as cost of goods sold ($1,751 million, $1,731 million and $1,882 million for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively).   

      NOTE 20. EARNINGS PER SHARE INFORMATION    
   
    Effective January 1, 2009, our unvested restricted stock unit awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend
equivalents are considered participating securities and, therefore, are included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. Application of this treatment had an insignificant effect.   

(a)  
  Included an insignificant amount of dividend equivalents in each of the three years presented.     

(b)  
  Included an insignificant amount related to accretion of redeemable securities in 2010 and 2009.        For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, there were approximately 344 million, 328 million and 204 million, respectively, of outstanding stock awards that were not included in the
computation of diluted earnings per share because their effect was antidilutive.      Earnings-per-share amounts are computed independently for earnings
from continuing operations, earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of per-share amounts from continuing operations and discontinued operations may not equal the total per-share amounts for net earnings.
  
         (159)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 21. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS       For a description of how we estimate fair value, see Note 1.      The following tables present our assets and liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Included in the tables are investment securities of $27,141 million and $25,729 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily supporting obligations to annuitants and policyholders
in our run-off insurance operations, and $5,706 million and $6,629 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, supporting obligations to holders of GICs in Trinity (which ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in the first
quarter of 2010), and investment securities held at our global banks. Such securities are mainly investment grade.   
         (160)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Included in Level 1 at December 31, 2010 was $76 million of available-for-sale equity transferred from Level 2 due to the expiration of sale restrictions on the security.
Additionally $110 million of government non-U.S. bonds were reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2. Other transfers to and from Level 1 and Level 2 were insignificant.     

(c)  
  The netting of derivative receivables and payables is permitted when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. Included fair value adjustments related to our own and
counterparty credit risk.     
 
         (161)   

Table of Contents  

(e)  
  The fair value of derivatives included an adjustment for non-performance risk. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the cumulative adjustment was a loss of $10 million and a gain
of $9 million, respectively. See Note 22 for additional information on the composition of our derivative portfolio.     

(f)  
  Included private equity investments and loans designated under the fair value option.     

(g)  
  Primarily represented the liability associated with certain of our deferred incentive compensation plans.        The following tables present the changes in Level 3 instruments measured on a recurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The majority of our Level 3 balances consist of
investment securities classified as available-for-sale with changes in fair value recorded in shareowners  equity.       Changes in Level 3
Instruments for the Year Ended December 31, 2010        

(b)  
  Earnings effects are primarily included in the  GECS revenues from services  and  Interest and other financial charges  captions in the Statement of Earnings.

(c)  
  Transfers in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the period. Transfers out of Level 3 were a result of increased use of quotes from independent pricing
vendors based on recent trading activity.     

(d)  
  Represented the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in earnings.     

(e)  
  Represented derivative assets net of derivative liabilities and included cash accruals of $9 million not reflected in the fair value hierarchy table.     

(f)  
  Gains (losses) included in net realized/unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings were offset by the earnings effects from the underlying items that were economically
hedged. See Note 22.     
         (162)   

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Level 3 Instruments for the Year Ended December 31, 2009    

(a)  
  Earnings effects are primarily included in the  GECS revenues from services  and  Interest and other financial charges  captions in the Statement of Earnings.

(b)  
  Transfers in and out of Level 3 are considered to occur at the beginning of the period. Transfers out of Level 3 were a result of increased use of quotes from independent pricing
vendors based on recent trading activity.     

(c)  
  Represented the amount of unrealized gains or losses for the period included in earnings.     

(d)  
  Primarily comprised of interest accretion.     

(e)  
  Represented derivative assets net of derivative liabilities and included cash accruals of $19 million not reflected in the fair value hierarchy table.     
         (163)   

Table of Contents  

    Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements       The following table represents non-recurring fair value amounts (as measured at the time of the adjustment) for those assets remeasured to fair value on a non-recurring basis during the fiscal year and still held
at December 31, 2010 and 2009. These assets can include loans and long-lived assets that have been reduced to fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that have been reduced based on the fair value of the underlying collateral,
cost and equity method investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair value when they are impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in formerly consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in control that results in
deconsolidation of a subsidiary, if we sell a controlling interest and retain a noncontrolling stake in the entity. Assets that are written down to fair value when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently adjusted to fair value unless
further impairment occurs.       

(b)  
  During 2010, our retained investment in Regency, a formerly consolidated subsidiary, was remeasured to a Level 1 fair value of $549 million.     
  The following table represents the fair value adjustments to assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and still held at December 31, 2010 and
2009.       

(b)  
  Includes $2,089 million of impairments related to real estate equity properties and investments recorded in other costs and expenses during 2010.     
         (164)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS       The following table provides information about the assets and liabilities not carried at fair value in our Statement of Financial Position. Consistent with ASC 825,  Financial Instruments , the table excludes
finance leases and non-financial assets and liabilities. Apart from certain of our borrowings and certain marketable securities, few of the instruments discussed below are actively traded and their fair values must often be determined using
financial models. Realization of the fair value of these instruments depends upon market forces beyond our control, including marketplace liquidity.       

(a)  
  These financial instruments do not have notional amounts.     

(d)  
  Principally cost method investments.     

(e)  
  Fair values exclude interest rate and currency derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings. Had they been included, the fair value of borrowings at December 31, 2010 and
2009 would have been reduced by $4,298 million and $2,856 million, respectively.     
    A description of how we estimate fair values follows.       Loans    
  Based on quoted market prices and recent transactions when available. When this data is unobservable, we use a discounted future cash flows methodology, using
current market interest rate data adjusted for inherent credit risk.       Borrowings and bank deposits    
  Based on valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data which are comparable to market quotes adjusted for our non-performance risk.   
         (165)   

Table of Contents  

    Investment contract benefits       Based on expected future cash flows, discounted at currently offered rates for immediate annuity contracts or the income approach for single premium deferred annuities.   
   Guaranteed investment contracts       Based on valuation
methodologies using current market interest rate data, adjusted for our non-performance risk.       All other instruments    
  Based on observable market transactions, valuation methodologies using current market interest rate data adjusted for inherent credit risk and/or quoted market
prices.      Assets and liabilities that are reflected in the accompanying financial statements at fair value are not included in the above disclosures;
such items include cash and equivalents, investment securities and derivative financial instruments.      Additional information about certain categories in
the table above follows.       Insurance   credit life       Certain insurance affiliates, primarily in Consumer, issue credit life insurance designed to pay the balance due on a loan if the borrower dies before the loan is repaid. As part of our overall risk management
process, we cede to third parties a portion of this associated risk, but are not relieved of our primary obligation to policyholders.       Loan
Commitments        

(b)  
  Included a $972 million commitment as of December 31, 2009, associated with a secured financing arrangement that could have increased to a maximum of $4,998 million based on
the asset volume under the arrangement. This commitment was terminated during the third quarter of 2010.     
 
     Derivatives and hedging       As a matter of policy, we use derivatives for risk management purposes, and we do not
use derivatives for speculative purposes. A key risk management objective for our financial services businesses is to mitigate interest rate and currency risk by seeking to ensure that the characteristics of the debt match the assets they are
funding. If the form (fixed versus floating) and currency denomination of the debt we issue do not match the related assets, we typically execute derivatives to adjust the nature and tenor of funding to meet this objective. The determination of
whether we enter into a derivative transaction or issue debt directly to achieve this objective depends on a number of factors, including market related factors that affect the type of debt we can issue.   
         (166)   

Table of Contents  

   The notional amounts of derivative contracts represent the basis upon which interest and other payments are calculated
and are reported gross, except for offsetting foreign currency forward contracts that are executed in order to manage our currency risk of net investment in foreign subsidiaries. Of the outstanding notional amount of $347,000 million, approximately
86% or $300,000 million, is associated with reducing or eliminating the interest rate, currency or market risk between financial assets and liabilities in our financial services businesses. The remaining derivative activities primarily relate to
hedging against adverse changes in currency exchange rates and commodity prices related to anticipated sales and purchases and contracts containing certain clauses which meet the accounting definition of a derivative. The instruments used in these
activities are designated as hedges when practicable. When we are not able to apply hedge accounting, or when the derivative and the hedged item are both recorded in earnings currently, the derivatives are deemed economic hedges and hedge accounting
is not applied. This most frequently occurs when we hedge a recognized foreign currency transaction (e.g., a receivable or payable) with a derivative. Since the effects of changes in exchange rates are reflected currently in earnings for both the
derivative and the transaction, the economic hedge does not require hedge accounting.      The following table provides information about the fair value of
our derivatives, by contract type, separating those accounted for as hedges and those that are not.       
    Derivatives are classified in the captions  All other assets  and  All other liabilities  in our financial
statements.   

(a)  
  The netting of derivative receivables and payables is permitted when a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists. Amounts included fair value adjustments related to our
own and counterparty non-performance risk. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the cumulative adjustment for non-performance risk was a loss of $10 million and a gain of $9 million, respectively.     
   Fair value hedges       We use interest rate and currency
exchange derivatives to hedge the fair value effects of interest rate and currency exchange rate changes on local and non-functional currency denominated fixed-rate debt. For relationships designated as fair value hedges, changes in fair value of
the derivatives are recorded in earnings within interest and other financial charges, along with offsetting adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged debt. The following table provides information about the earnings effects of our fair value
hedging relationships for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.   
         (167)   

Table of Contents  

Fair value hedges resulted in $(550) million and $(209) million of ineffectiveness in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2010 and 2009,
there were insignificant amounts and $(225) million excluded from the assessment of effectiveness, respectively.       Cash flow hedges    
  We use interest rate, currency exchange and commodity derivatives to reduce the variability of expected future cash flows associated with variable rate borrowings
and commercial purchase and sale transactions, including commodities. For derivatives that are designated in a cash flow hedging relationship, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivative is reported as a component of AOCI and
reclassified into earnings contemporaneously and in the same caption with the earnings effects of the hedged transaction.      The following table provides
information about the amounts recorded in AOCI, as well as the gain (loss) recorded in earnings, primarily in interest and other financial charges, when reclassified out of AOCI, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.   
   
    The total pre-tax amount in AOCI related to cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions was $1,941 million at December 31, 2010.
We expect to transfer $(1,004) million to earnings as an expense in the next 12 months contemporaneously with the earnings effects of the related forecasted transactions. In 2010, we recognized insignificant gains and losses related to hedged
forecasted transactions and firm commitments that did not occur by the end of the originally specified period. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the maximum term of derivative instruments that hedge forecasted transactions was 25 years and 26
years, respectively, and related to hedges of anticipated interest payments associated with external debt.      For cash flow hedges, the amount of
ineffectiveness in the hedging relationship and amount of the changes in fair value of the derivatives that are not included in the measurement of ineffectiveness are both reflected in earnings each reporting period. These amounts are primarily
reported in GECS revenues from services and totaled $19 million and $49 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of which $(18) million represents amounts excluded from the assessment of effectiveness for the year
ended December 31, 2009.   
         (168)   

Table of Contents  

    Net investment hedges in foreign operations       We use currency exchange derivatives to protect our net investments in global operations conducted in non-U.S. dollar currencies. For derivatives that are designated as hedges of net investment in a foreign
operation, we assess effectiveness based on changes in spot currency exchange rates. Changes in spot rates on the derivative are recorded as a component of AOCI until such time as the foreign entity is substantially liquidated or sold. The change in
fair value of the forward points, which reflects the interest rate differential between the two countries on the derivative, is excluded from the effectiveness assessment.      The following table provides information about the amounts recorded in AOCI for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, as well as the gain (loss) recorded in GECS revenues from services when reclassified
out of AOCI.       
    The amounts related to the change in the fair value of the forward points that are excluded from the measure of effectiveness were
$(906) million and $(899) million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are recorded in interest and other financial charges.       Free-standing derivatives       Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are
recorded in earnings each period. As discussed above, these derivatives are typically entered into as economic hedges of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, commodity prices and other risks. Gains or losses related to the derivative
are typically recorded in GECS revenues from services or other income, based on our accounting policy. In general, the earnings effects of the item that represent the economic risk exposure are recorded in the same caption as the derivative. Losses
for the year ended December 31, 2010 on derivatives not designated as hedges were $(302) million comprised of amounts related to interest rate contracts of $185 million, currency exchange contracts of $(666) million, and other derivatives of
$179 million. These losses were more than offset by the earnings effects from the underlying items that were economically hedged. Gains for the year ended December 31, 2009 on derivatives not designated as hedges, without considering the
offsetting earnings effects from the item representing the economic risk exposure, were $1,021 million comprised of amounts related to interest rate contracts of $211 million, currency exchange contracts of $499 million, and other derivatives of
$311 million.       Counterparty credit risk       Fair
values of our derivatives can change significantly from period to period based on, among other factors, market movements and changes in our positions. Accordingly, we actively monitor these exposures and take appropriate actions in response. We
manage counterparty credit risk (the risk that counterparties will default and not make payments to us according to the terms of our standard master agreements) on an individual counterparty basis. Where we have agreed to netting of derivative
exposures with a counterparty, we offset our exposures with that counterparty and apply the value of collateral posted to us to determine the exposure. When net exposure to a counterparty, based on the current market values of agreements and
collateral, exceeds credit exposure limits (see following table), we typically take action to reduce such exposures. These actions may include prohibiting additional transactions with the counterparty, requiring additional collateral from the
counterparty (as described below) and terminating or restructuring transactions.   
         (169)   

Table of Contents  

   As discussed above, we have provisions in certain of our master agreements that require counterparties to post
collateral (typically, cash or U.S. Treasuries) when our receivable due from the counterparty, measured at current market value, exceeds a specified limit. At December 31, 2010, our exposure to counterparties, including interest due, net of
collateral we hold, was $1,232 million. The fair value of such collateral was $7,689 million, of which $2,112 million was cash and $5,577 million was in the form of securities held by a custodian for our benefit. Under certain of these same
agreements, we post collateral to our counterparties for our derivative obligations, the fair value of which was $1,528 million at December 31, 2010.      Following is our policy relating to initial credit rating requirements and to exposure limits to counterparties.   
   Counterparty credit criteria        

Credit rating   

Moody s   

S P   

Foreign exchange forwards (less than one year)   

P-1  

A-1  

All derivatives between one and five years   

Aa3  
  (a)   

AA-  
  (a)    
 
    All derivatives greater than five years   

Aaa  
  (a)   

AAA  
  (a)    

(a)  
  Counterparties that have an obligation to provide collateral to cover credit exposure in accordance with a credit support agreement typically have a minimum A3/A- rating.
        Exposure limits        

(a)  
  For derivatives with exposures less than one year, counterparties are permitted to have unsecured exposure up to $150 million with a minimum rating of A-1/P-1. Exposure to a
counterparty is determined net of collateral.        Additionally, our standard master agreements typically contain mutual downgrade provisions
that provide the ability of each party to require termination if the long-term credit rating of the counterparty were to fall below A-/A3. In certain of these master agreements, each party also has the ability to require termination if the
short-term rating of the counterparty were to fall below A-1/P-1. The net amount relating to our derivative liability of $2,799 million subject to these provisions, after consideration of collateral posted by us, and outstanding interest payments,
was $1,022 million at December 31, 2010.   
         (170)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 23. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE CREDIT QUALITY OF FINANCING RECEIVABLES AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES ON
FINANCING RECEIVABLES       Pursuant to new disclosures required by ASC 310-10, effective December 31, 2010, we provide further detailed information
about the credit quality of our Commercial, Real Estate and Consumer financing receivables portfolios. For each portfolio, we describe the characteristics of the financing receivables and provide information about collateral, payment performance,
credit quality indicators, and impairment. While we provide data on selected credit quality indicators in accordance with the new disclosure requirements of ASC 310-10, we manage these portfolios using delinquency and nonearning data as key
performance indicators. The categories used within this section such as impaired loans, troubled debt restructuring and nonaccrual financing receivables are defined by the authoritative guidance and we base our categorization on the related scope
and definitions contained in the related standards. The categories of nonearning and delinquent are defined by us and are used in our process for managing our financing receivables. Definitions of these categories are provided below:   
   Impaired loans  are larger balance or restructured loans for which it is probable that the lender will be unable to collect all amounts due according to
original contractual terms of the loan agreement.       Troubled debt restructurings  are those loans for which we have granted a concession to a
borrower experiencing financial difficulties where we do not receive adequate compensation. Such loans are classified as impaired, and are individually reviewed for specific reserves.       Nonaccrual financing receivables  are those on which we have stopped accruing interest. We stop accruing interest at the earlier of the time at which collection of an account becomes doubtful or the account
becomes 90 days past due. Although we stop accruing interest in advance of payments, we recognize interest income as cash is collected when appropriate provided the amount does not exceed that which would have been earned at the historical effective
interest rate.       Nonearning financing receivables  are a subset of nonaccrual financing receivables for which cash payments are not being received
or for which we are on the cost recovery method of accounting (i.e., any payments are accounted for as a reduction of principal). This category excludes loans purchased at a discount (unless they have deteriorated post acquisition).   
   Delinquent financing receivables  are those that are 30 days or more past due based on their contractual terms.   
  The same financing receivable may meet more than one of the definitions above. Accordingly, these categories are not mutually exclusive and it is possible for a
particular loan to meet the definitions of a TDR, impaired loan, nonaccrual loan and nonearning loan and be included in each of these categories in the tables that follow. The categorization of a particular loan also may not be indicative of the
potential for loss.       COMMERCIAL       Substantially
all of our commercial portfolio comprises secured collateral positions. CLL products include loans and leases collateralized by a wide variety of equipment types, cash flow loans, asset-backed loans and factoring arrangements. Our loans and leases
are secured by assets such as heavy machinery, vehicles, medical equipment, corporate aircraft, and office imaging equipment. Cash flow financing is secured by our ability to liquidate the underlying assets of the borrower and the asset-backed loans
and factoring arrangements are secured by customer accounts receivable, inventory, and/or machinery and equipment. The portfolios in our Energy Financial Services and GECAS businesses are primarily collateralized by energy generating assets and
commercial aircraft, respectively. Our senior secured position and risk management expertise provide loss mitigation against borrowers with weak credit characteristics.   
         (171)   

Table of Contents  

    Financing Receivables and Allowance for Losses       The following table provides further information about general and specific reserves related to Commercial financing receivables.       

(b)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Transportation Financial Services business from GECAS to CLL and the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL.
Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period presentation.     

(c)  
  Primarily consisted of loans and financing leases in former consolidated, liquidating securitization entities, which became wholly owned affiliates in December 2010.
        Past Due Financing Receivables    
  The following table displays payment performance of Commercial financing receivables.   

(172)   

Table of Contents  

    Nonaccrual Financing Receivables       The following table provides further information about Commercial financing receivables that are classified as nonaccrual. Of our $5,463 million of nonaccrual financing receivables at December 31, 2010, $1,016
million are currently paying in accordance with their contractual terms.       

(a)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL. Prior period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period
presentation.     
     Impaired Loans       The following table provides information about loans classified as impaired and specific
reserves related to Commercial.       

(a)  
  We recognized $88 million of interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010, principally on a cash basis. A substantial majority of this amount was related to income
recognized in our CLL   Americas business.     
         (173)   

Table of Contents  

    Credit Quality Indicators       Substantially all of our Commercial financing receivables portfolio is secured lending and we assess the overall quality of the portfolio based on the potential risk of loss measure. The metric incorporates both
the borrower s credit quality along with any related collateral protection.      Our internal risk ratings process is an important source of
information in determining our allowance for losses and represents a comprehensive, statistically validated approach to evaluate risk in our financing receivables portfolios. In deriving our internal risk ratings, we stratify our Commercial
portfolios into twenty-one categories of default risk and/or six categories of loss given default to group into three categories: A, B and C. Our process starts by developing an internal risk rating for our borrowers, which are based upon our
proprietary models using data derived from borrower financial statements, agency ratings, payment history information, equity prices and other commercial borrower characteristics. We then evaluate the potential risk of loss for the specific lending
transaction in the event of borrower default, which takes into account such factors as applicable collateral value, historical loss and recovery rates for similar transactions, and our collection capabilities. Our internal risk ratings process and
the models we use are subject to regular monitoring and validation controls. The frequency of rating updates is set by our credit risk policy, which requires annual Audit Committee approval. The models are updated on a regular basis and
statistically validated annually, or more frequently as circumstances warrant.      The table below summarizes our Commercial financing receivables by risk
category. As described above, financing receivables are assigned one of twenty-one risk ratings based on our process and then these are grouped by similar characteristics into three categories in the table below. Category A is characterized by
either high credit quality borrowers or transactions with significant collateral coverage which substantially reduces or eliminates the risk of loss in the event of borrower default. Category B is characterized by borrowers with weaker credit
quality than those in Category A, or transactions with moderately strong collateral coverage which minimizes but may not fully mitigate the risk of loss in the event of default. Category C is characterized by borrowers with higher levels of default
risk relative to our overall portfolio or transactions where collateral coverage may not fully mitigate a loss in the event of default.       Commercial
   
    For our secured financing receivables portfolio, our collateral position and ability to work out problem accounts mitigates our
losses. Our asset managers have deep industry expertise that enables us to identify the optimum approach to default situations. We price risk premiums for weaker credits at origination, closely monitor changes in creditworthiness through our risk
ratings and watch list process, and are engaged early with deteriorating credits to minimize economic loss. Secured financing receivables within risk Category C are predominantly in our CLL businesses and are primarily comprised of senior term
lending facilities and factoring programs secured by various asset types including inventory, accounts receivable, cash, equipment and related business facilities as well as franchise finance activities secured by underlying equipment.   
         (174)   

Table of Contents  

   Loans within Category C are reviewed and monitored regularly, and classified as impaired when it is probable that they
will not pay in accordance with contractual terms. Our internal risk rating process identifies credits warranting closer monitoring; and as such, these loans are not necessarily classified as nonearning or impaired.   
  At December 31, 2010, our unsecured Commercial financing receivables portfolio of $208 million, $964 million and $783 million was rated A, B and C,
respectively. Substantially all of these financing receivables are attributable to our Interbanca S.p.A. and GE Sanyo Credit acquisitions in Europe and Asia, respectively.       REAL ESTATE       Our real estate portfolio primarily comprises fixed and floating loans secured by commercial real
estate. Our Debt portfolio is underwritten based on the cash flows generated by underlying income-producing commercial properties and secured by first mortgages. Our Business properties portfolio is underwritten primarily by the credit quality of
the borrower and secured by tenant and owner-occupied commercial properties.       Financing Receivables and Allowance for Losses    
  The following table provides further information about general and specific reserves related to Real Estate financing receivables.   

Past Due Financing Receivables       The following table displays payment performance of Real Estate financing
receivables.       
 
         (175)   

Table of Contents  

    Nonaccrual Financing Receivables       The following table provides further information about Real Estate financing receivables that are classified as nonaccrual. Of our $9,719 million of nonaccrual financing receivables at December 31, 2010,
$7,888 million are currently paying in accordance with their contractual terms.       
     
     Impaired Loans       The following table provides information about loans classified as impaired and specific
reserves related to Real Estate.       

(a)  
  We recognized $189 million of interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010, principally on a cash basis. A substantial majority of this amount related to our Real
Estate Debt business.         Credit Quality Indicators       Due to the primarily non-recourse nature of our Debt portfolio, loan-to-value ratios provide the best indicators of the credit quality of the portfolio. By contrast, the credit quality of the Business properties
portfolio is primarily influenced by the strength of the borrower s general credit quality, which is reflected in our internal risk rating process, consistent with the process we use for our Commercial portfolio.   
         (176)   

Table of Contents  

Within Real Estate, these financing receivables are primarily
concentrated in our North American and European Lending platforms and are secured by various property types. Collateral values for Real Estate Debt financing receivables are updated at least semi-annually, or more frequently for higher risk loans. A
substantial majority of the Real Estate Debt financing receivables with loan-to-value ratios greater than 95% are paying in accordance with contractual terms. Substantially all of these loans and substantially all of the Real Estate Business
properties financing receivables included in Category C are impaired loans which are subject to the specific reserve evaluation process described in Note 1. The ultimate recoverability of impaired loans is driven by collection strategies that do not
necessarily depend on the sale of the underlying collateral and include full or partial repayments through third-party refinancing and restructurings.   
   CONSUMER       Our Consumer portfolio is largely non-U.S. and
primarily comprises residential mortgage, sales finance, and auto and personal loans in various European and Asian countries. At December 31, 2010, our U.S. consumer financing receivables included private-label credit card and sales financing
for over 51 million customers across the U.S. with no metropolitan area accounting for more than 6% of the portfolio. Of the total U.S. consumer financing receivables, approximately 63% relate to credit card loans, which are often subject to
profit and loss sharing arrangements with the retailer (which are recorded in revenues), and the remaining 37% are sales finance receivables, which provide financing to customers in areas such as electronics, recreation, medical and home
improvement.   
         (177)   

Table of Contents  

    Financing Receivables and Allowance for Losses       The following table provides further information about general and specific reserves related to Consumer financing receivables.       

(a)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL. Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period
presentation.     
     Past Due Financing Receivables       The following table displays payment performance of Consumer financing
receivables.       

(a)  
  Included $268 million and $236 million of loans at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which are over 90 days past due and accruing interest. A substantial majority of
these loans are covered by third-party mortgage insurance, which provide for payment of principal and interest on the underlying loan.     
         (178)   

Table of Contents  

    Nonaccrual Financing Receivables       The following table provides further information about Consumer financing receivables that are classified as nonaccrual.       

(a)  
  During the first quarter of 2010, we transferred the Consumer business in Italy from Consumer to CLL. Prior-period amounts were reclassified to conform to the current-period
presentation.     
     Impaired Loans       The vast majority of our Consumer nonaccrual financing receivables are smaller balance
homogeneous loans evaluated collectively, by portfolio, for impairment and therefore are outside the scope of the disclosure requirement for impaired loans. Accordingly, impaired loans in our Consumer business represent restructured smaller balance
homogeneous loans meeting the definition of a TDR, and therefore subject to the disclosure requirement for impaired loans, and commercial loans in our Consumer Other portfolio. The recorded investment of these impaired loans totaled $2,554
million (with an unpaid principal balance of $2,244 million) and comprised $106 million with no specific allowance, primarily all in our Consumer Other portfolio, and $2,448 million with a specific allowance of $555 million at December 31,
2010. The impaired loans with a specific allowance included $428 million with a specific allowance of $114 million in our Consumer Other portfolio and $2,020 million with a specific allowance of $441 million across the remaining Consumer
business and had an unpaid principal balance and average investment of $2,139 million and $1,771 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. We recognized $115 million of interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010, principally
on a cash basis. A substantial majority of this amount related to income recognized in our Consumer U.S. installment and revolving credit business.   
   Credit Quality Indicators       Our Consumer financing
receivables portfolio comprises both secured and unsecured lending. Secured financing receivables comprise residential loans and lending to small and medium-sized enterprises predominantly secured by auto and equipment, inventory finance, and cash
flow loans. Unsecured financing receivables include private-label credit card financing. A substantial majority of these cards are not for general use and are limited to the products and services sold by the retailer. The private label portfolio is
diverse with no metropolitan area accounting for more than 6% of the related portfolio.       Non-U.S. residential mortgages    
  For our secured non-U.S. residential mortgage book, we assess the overall credit quality of the portfolio through loan-to-value ratios (the ratio of the outstanding
debt on a property to the value of that property at origination). In the event of default and repossession of the underlying collateral, we have the ability to remarket and sell the properties to eliminate or mitigate the potential risk of loss. The
table below provides additional information about our non-U.S. residential mortgages based on loan-to-value ratios.   
         (179)   

Table of Contents  

The majority of these financing receivables are in our U.K. and
France portfolios and have re-indexed loan-to-value ratios of 83% and 60%, respectively. We have third-party mortgage insurance for approximately 73% of the balance of Consumer non-U.S. residential mortgage loans with loan-to-value ratios greater
than 90% at December 31, 2010. Such loans were primarily originated in the U.K. and France.       Installment and Revolving Credit    
  For our unsecured lending products, including the non-U.S. and U.S. installment and revolving credit and non-U.S. auto portfolios, we assess overall credit quality
using internal and external credit scores. Our internal credit scores imply a probability of default which we consistently translate into three approximate credit bureau equivalent credit score categories, including (a) 681 or higher which are
considered the strongest credits; (b) 615 to 680, considered moderate credit risk; and (c) 614 or less, which are considered weaker credits.       
    Of those financing receivable accounts with credit bureau
equivalent scores of 614 or less at December 31, 2010, 94% and 6% relate to installment and revolving credit accounts and non-U.S. auto accounts, respectively. These smaller balance accounts have an average outstanding balance less than one
thousand U.S. dollars and are primarily concentrated in our retail card and sales finance receivables in the U.S. (which are often subject to profit and loss sharing arrangements), and closed-end loans outside the U.S., which minimizes the potential
for loss in the event of default. For lower credit scores, we adequately price for the incremental risk at origination and monitor credit migration through our risk ratings process. We continuously adjust our credit line underwriting management and
collection strategies based on customer behavior and risk profile changes. During 2008 through 2010, we strengthened our underwriting processes by actively reducing credit lines and approval rates along with increasing our collection efforts to
mitigate the potential risk of loss in these portfolios and we have experienced an improvement in nonearning assets.       Consumer Other
      Secured lending in Consumer Other comprises loans to small and medium-sized enterprises predominantly secured by auto and equipment, inventory
finance, and cash flow loans. We develop our internal risk ratings for this portfolio in a manner consistent with the process used to develop our Commercial credit quality indicators, described above. We use the borrower s credit quality and
underlying collateral strength to determine the potential risk of loss from these activities.      At December 31, 2010, Consumer Other financing
receivables of $6,417 million, $822 million and $1,067 million were rated A, B, and C, respectively.   
         (180)   

Table of Contents  

24. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES       We securitize financial assets and arrange other forms of asset-backed financing in the ordinary course of business. These transactions are similar to those used by many financial institutions. Beyond improving
returns, these transactions serve as alternative funding sources for a variety of diversified lending and securities transactions. Historically, we have used both GE-supported and third-party VIEs to execute off-balance sheet securitization
transactions funded in the commercial paper and term markets. The largest group of VIEs that we are involved with are former QSPEs, which under guidance in effect through December 31, 2009 were excluded from the scope of consolidation standards
based on their characteristics. Except as noted below, investors in these entities only have recourse to the assets owned by the entity and not to our general credit. We do not have implicit support arrangements with any VIE. We did not provide
non-contractual support for previously transferred financing receivables to any VIE in 2010 or 2009.      On January 1, 2010, we adopted FASB ASU
2009-16   17, which amended ASC 860,  Transfers and Servicing , and ASC 810,  Consolidation , respectively. These amendments eliminated the scope exception for QSPEs and required that all such entities be evaluated for
consolidation as VIEs, which resulted in the consolidation of all of our sponsored QSPEs. Among other changes, the amendments to ASC 810 replaced the existing quantitative approach for identifying the party that should consolidate a VIE, which was
based on exposure to a majority of the risks and rewards, with a qualitative approach, based on determination of which party has the power to direct the most economically significant activities of the entity. The revised guidance will sometimes
change the composition of entities that meet the definition of a VIE and the determination about which party should consolidate a VIE, as well as requiring the latter to be evaluated continuously.   
  In evaluating whether we have the power to direct, as defined in the standard, we consider the purpose for which the VIE was created, the importance of each of the
activities in which it is engaged and our decision-making role, if any, in those activities that significantly determine the entity s economic performance as compared to other economic interest holders. This evaluation requires consideration of
all facts and circumstances relevant to decision-making that affects the entity s future performance and the exercise of professional judgment in deciding which decision-making rights are most important.   
  In determining whether we have the right to receive benefits or the obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE, we evaluate all
of our economic interests in the entity, regardless of form (debt, equity, management and servicing fees, and other contractual arrangements). This evaluation considers all relevant factors of the entity s design, including: the entity s
capital structure, contractual rights to earnings (losses), subordination of our interests relative to those of other investors, contingent payments, as well as other contractual arrangements that have potential to be economically significant. The
evaluation of each of these factors in reaching a conclusion about the potential significance of our economic interests is a matter that requires the exercise of professional judgment.      As of January 1, 2010 and subsequently, we evaluated all entities that fall within the scope of the amended ASC 810 to determine whether we were required to consolidate or deconsolidate them based on the
approach described above. In addition to the securitization QSPEs described above, we were required to consolidate assets of VIEs related to direct investments in entities that hold loans and fixed income securities, a media joint venture and a
small number of companies to which we have extended loans in the ordinary course of business and have subsequently been subject to a TDR. The incremental effect of these entities on our total assets and liabilities, net of our investment in them,
was an increase of approximately $31,097 million and $33,042 million, respectively, at January 1, 2010. There also was a net reduction of total equity (including noncontrolling interests) of approximately $1,945 million at January 1, 2010,
principally related to the reversal of previously recognized securitization gains as a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings.   
         (181)   

Table of Contents  

   The assets of QSPEs that we consolidated were $29,792 million, net of our existing retained interests of $8,782
million, and liabilities were $31,616 million at January 1, 2010. Significant assets of the QSPEs included net financing receivables and trade receivables of $39,463 million and investment securities of $1,015 million at January 1, 2010.
Significant liabilities included non-recourse borrowings of $36,112 million. The assets and liabilities of other VIEs we consolidated were $1,305 million and $1,426 million, respectively.       Consolidated Variable Interest Entities       We consolidate VIEs because we have the power to direct the activities
that significantly affect the VIEs economic performance, typically because of our role as either servicer or manager for the VIE. Our consolidated VIEs fall into three main groups, which are further described below:   

Trinity is a group of sponsored special purpose entities that holds investment securities, the majority of which are investment grade, and are funded by the
issuance of GICs. These entities were consolidated in 2003, and ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in the first quarter of 2010.         If the long-term credit rating of GECC were to fall below AA-/Aa3 or its short-term credit rating were to fall below A-1+/P-1, GECC would be required to provide approximately $1,508 million to such entities as of
December 31, 2010 pursuant to letters of credit issued by GECC. To the extent that the entities  liabilities exceed the ultimate value of the proceeds from the sale of their assets and the amount drawn under the letters of credit, GECC is
required to provide such excess amount. As the borrowings of these entities are already reflected in our consolidated Statement of Financial Position, there would be no change in our debt if this were to occur. As of December 31, 2010, the
carrying value of the liabilities of these entities  was $5,690 million and the fair value of their assets was $5,989 million (which included net unrealized losses on investment securities of $690 million). With respect to these investment
securities, we intend to hold them at least until such time as their individual fair values exceed their amortized cost. We have the ability to hold all such debt securities until maturity.   

Securitization QSPEs comprise previously off-book QSPEs that were consolidated on January 1, 2010 in connection with our adoption of ASU 2009-16  
17. These entities were created to facilitate securitization of financial assets and other forms of asset-backed financing which serve as an alternative funding source by providing access to the commercial paper and term markets. The securitization
transactions executed with these entities are similar to those used by many financial institutions and substantially all are non-recourse. We provide servicing for substantially all of the assets in these entities.     
  The financing receivables in these entities have similar risks and characteristics to our other financing receivables and were underwritten to the
same standard. Accordingly, the performance of these assets has been similar to our other financing receivables; however, the blended performance of the pools of receivables in these entities reflects the eligibility criteria that we apply to
determine which receivables are selected for transfer. Contractually the cash flows from these financing receivables must first be used to pay third-party debt holders as well as other expenses of the entity. Excess cash flows are available to GE.
The creditors of these entities have no claim on other assets of GE.      

Other remaining assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs relate primarily to five categories of entities: (1) enterprises we acquired that had previously
created asset-backed financing entities to fund commercial real estate, middle-market and equipment loans; we are the collateral manager for these entities; (2) joint ventures that lease light industrial equipment and that hold a limited
partnership interest in certain media properties; (3) entities that have executed on-balance sheet securitizations of financial assets and of third-party trade receivables; (4) insurance entities that, among other lines of business,
provide property and casualty and workers  compensation coverage for GE; and (5) other entities that are involved in power generating, leasing and real estate activities.      
         (182)   

Table of Contents  

   The table below summarizes the assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs described above.   

(a)  
  Entities consolidated on July 1, 2003 or January 1, 2004 as a result of amendments to U.S. GAAP. During 2010, the capital structure of the consolidated liquidating
securitization entities changed and they are now consolidated under the voting interest model.     

(c)  
  In certain transactions entered into prior to December 31, 2004, we provided contractual credit and liquidity support to third parties who funded the purchase of securitized
or participated interests in assets. We have not entered into additional arrangements since that date. Liquidity and credit support was $936 million at December 31, 2010 and $2,088 million at December 31, 2009.     

(d)  
  Other assets, borrowings and other liabilities exclude intercompany balances that are eliminated in consolidation.     
  GECS revenues from services from our consolidated VIEs were $6,914 million in 2010. Related expenses consisted primarily of provisions for losses of $1,596 million
and interest and other financial charges of $767 million in 2010. These amounts do not include intercompany revenues and costs, principally fees and interest between GE and the VIEs, which are eliminated in consolidation.   
         (183)   

Table of Contents  

   The gross financing receivables and outstanding debt, which is substantially all non-recourse, in Securitization QSPEs
at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 is provided below.       

(a)  
  Included floorplan receivables.     

(b)  
  Asset amounts exclude intercompany receivables for cash collected on behalf of the entities by GE as servicer, which are eliminated in consolidation. Such receivables provide the
cash to repay the entities  liabilities. If these intercompany receivables were included in the table above, assets would exceed the outstanding debt shown.         Investments in Unconsolidated Variable Interest Entities       Our involvement with unconsolidated VIEs consists of
the following activities: assisting in the formation and financing of the entity, providing recourse and/or liquidity support, servicing the assets and receiving variable fees for services provided. We are not required to consolidate these entities
because the nature of our involvement with the activities of the VIEs does not give us power over decisions that significantly affect their economic performance.      Unconsolidated VIEs at December 31, 2010 include our non-controlling stake in PTL ($5,790 million); investments in real estate entities ($2,071 million), which generally consist of passive limited partnership
investments in tax-advantaged, multi-family real estate and investments in various European real estate entities; debt investment fund ($1,877 million); and exposures to joint ventures that purchase factored receivables ($1,596 million).
Substantially all of our other unconsolidated entities consist of passive investments in various asset-backed financing entities.      The largest
unconsolidated VIE with which we are involved is PTL, which is a truck rental and leasing joint venture. The total consolidated assets and liabilities of PTL at December 31, 2008 were $7,444 million and $1,339 million, respectively. As part of
our strategy to reduce our investment in the equipment management market, we reduced our partnership interest in PTL from 79% at December 31, 2005 to 50.9% at December 31, 2008 through a series of dispositions to Penske Truck Leasing
Corporation (PTLC), the general partner of PTL, and an entity affiliated with PTLC. In addition, in the first quarter of 2009, we sold a 1% partnership interest in PTL, a previously consolidated VIE, to PTLC. The disposition of this partnership
interest, coupled with our resulting minority position on the PTL advisory committee and related changes in our contractual rights, resulted in the deconsolidation of PTL. We recognized a pre-tax gain on the sale of $296 million, including a gain on
the remeasurement of our retained investment of $189 million. The transaction price was determined on an arm s-length basis and GE obtained a fairness opinion from a third-party financial advisor because of the related party nature of the
transaction. The measurement of the fair value of our retained investment in PTL was based on a methodology that incorporated both discounted cash flow information and market data. In applying this methodology, we utilized different sources of
information, including actual operating results, future business plans, economic projections and market observable pricing multiples of similar businesses. The resulting fair value of our retained interest reflected our position as a noncontrolling
shareowner at the conclusion of the transaction. At December 31, 2010, our remaining investment in PTL of $5,790 million comprised a 49.9% partnership interest of $935 million and loans and advances of $4,855 million. GECC continues to provide
loans under long-term revolving credit and letter of credit facilities to PTL.   
         (184)   

Table of Contents  

   The classification of our variable interests in these entities in our financial statements is based on the nature of
the entity and the type of investment we hold. Variable interests in partnerships and corporate entities are classified as either equity method or cost method investments. In the ordinary course of business, we also make investments in entities in
which we are not the primary beneficiary but may hold a variable interest such as limited partner interests or mezzanine debt investments. These investments are classified in two captions in our financial statements:  All other assets  for
investments accounted for under the equity method, and  Financing receivables   net  for debt financing provided to these entities. Our investments in unconsolidated VIEs at December 31, 2010 and 2009 follow.   
   
    In addition to the entities included in the table above, we also hold passive investments in RMBS, CMBS and ABS issued by VIEs. Such
investments were, by design, investment grade at issuance and held by a diverse group of investors. Further information about such investments is provided in Note 3.   

      NOTE 25. COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES        Commitments       In our Aviation business of Technology Infrastructure, we had committed to provide financing
assistance on $1,128 million of future customer acquisitions of aircraft equipped with our engines, including commitments made to airlines in 2010 for future sales under our GE90 and GEnx engine campaigns. The GECAS business of GE Capital had placed
multiple-year orders for various Boeing, Airbus and other aircraft with list prices approximating $14,574 million and secondary orders with airlines for used aircraft of approximately $790 million at December 31, 2010.   
  As of December 31, 2010, NBC Universal had certain commitments to acquire film and television programming. On January 28, 2011, we transferred the NBCU
business to a newly formed entity and, as a result, these commitments are no longer ours. See Note 2 for further discussion of the NBCU transaction.   
   Product Warranties       We provide for estimated product
warranty expenses when we sell the related products. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best available information   mostly historical claims experience   claims costs may differ from amounts provided. An
analysis of changes in the liability for product warranties follows.       

(a)  
  Primarily related to Technology Infrastructure and Energy Infrastructure.     
         (185)   

Table of Contents  

    Guarantees       At
December 31, 2010, we were committed under the following guarantee arrangements beyond those provided on behalf of QSPEs and VIEs. See Note 24.       

Credit Support.  We have provided $8,327 million of credit support on behalf of certain customers or associated companies, predominantly joint ventures and
partnerships, using arrangements such as standby letters of credit and performance guarantees. These arrangements enable these customers and associated companies to execute transactions or obtain desired financing arrangements with third parties.
Should the customer or associated company fail to perform under the terms of the transaction or financing arrangement, we would be required to perform on their behalf. Under most such arrangements, our guarantee is secured, usually by the asset
being purchased or financed, or possibly by certain other assets of the customer or associated company. The length of these credit support arrangements parallels the length of the related financing arrangements or transactions. The liability for
such credit support was $53 million at December 31, 2010.          

Indemnification Agreements.  These are agreements that require us to fund up to $228 million at December 31, 2010 under residual value guarantees on a
variety of leased equipment. Under most of our residual value guarantees, our commitment is secured by the leased asset. The liability for these indemnification agreements was $47 million at December 31, 2010. We also had $2,502 million of
other indemnification commitments, substantially all of which relate to standard representations and warranties in sales of businesses or assets.          

Contingent Consideration.  These are agreements to provide additional consideration to a buyer or seller in a business combination if contractually
specified conditions related to the acquisition or disposition are achieved. Adjustments to the proceeds from our sale of GE Money Japan are further discussed in Note 2. All other potential payments related to contingent consideration are
insignificant.         Our guarantees are provided in the ordinary course of business. We underwrite these guarantees considering economic,
liquidity and credit risk of the counterparty. We believe that the likelihood is remote that any such arrangements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We record liabilities for
guarantees at estimated fair value, generally the amount of the premium received, or if we do not receive a premium, the amount based on appraisal, observed market values or discounted cash flows. Any associated expected recoveries from third
parties are recorded as other receivables, not netted against the liabilities.   

      NOTE 26. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOWS INFORMATION       Changes in operating assets and liabilities are net of acquisitions and dispositions of principal businesses.   
  Amounts reported in the  Payments for principal businesses purchased  line in the Statement of Cash Flows is net of cash acquired and included debt
assumed and immediately repaid in acquisitions.      Amounts reported in the  All other operating activities  line in the Statement of Cash Flows
consists primarily of adjustments to current and noncurrent accruals and deferrals of costs and expenses, adjustments for gains and losses on assets and adjustments to assets. GECS had non-cash transactions related to foreclosed properties and
repossessed assets totaling $1,915 million and $1,364 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2008, GE received $300 million (12.7 million shares) worth of its shares in connection with the disposition of NBC Universal s 57% interest in the
Sundance Channel.   
         (186)   

Table of Contents  

   Certain supplemental information related to GE and GECS cash flows is shown below.   

(187)   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 27. INTERCOMPANY TRANSACTIONS       Effects of transactions between related companies are made on an arms-length basis, are eliminated and consist primarily of GECS dividends to GE or capital contributions from GE to GECS; GE customer receivables
sold to GECS; GECS services for trade receivables management and material procurement; buildings and equipment (including automobiles) leased between GE and GECS; information technology (IT) and other services sold to GECS by GE; aircraft engines
manufactured by GE that are installed on aircraft purchased by GECS from third-party producers for lease to others; and various investments, loans and allocations of GE corporate overhead costs.   
  These intercompany transactions are reported in the GE and GECS columns of our financial statements, but are eliminated in deriving our consolidated financial
statements. Effects of these eliminations on our consolidated cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities include the following. Net decrease (increase) in GE customer receivables sold to GECS of $81 million, $(157) million and $90
million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from operating and investing activities at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Capital contributions from GE to GECS of $9,500 million and $5,500 million have been eliminated from
consolidated cash from investing and financing activities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were no such capital contributions at December 31, 2010. GECS dividends to GE of $2,351 million have been eliminated from
consolidated cash from operating and financing activities at December 31, 2008. There were no such dividends at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Eliminations of intercompany borrowings (includes GE investment in GECS short-term
borrowings, such as commercial paper) of $293 million, $715 million and $(471) million have been eliminated from financing activities at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Other reclassifications and eliminations of $(205) million,
$741 million and $(188) million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from operating activities and $107 million, $(817) million and $(320) million have been eliminated from consolidated cash from investing activities at December 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.         NOTE 28. OPERATING SEGMENTS        Basis for presentation       Our operating businesses are organized based on the nature of markets and customers.
Segment accounting policies are the same as described in Note 1. Segment results for our financial services businesses reflect the discrete tax effect of transactions.      Effective January 1, 2010, we reorganized our segments to better align our Consumer   Industrial and Energy businesses for growth. As a result of this reorganization, we created a new segment called
Home   Business Solutions that includes the Appliances and Lighting businesses from our previous Consumer   Industrial segment and the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms business of our previous Enterprise
Solutions business (formerly within our Technology Infrastructure segment). In addition, the Industrial business of our previous Consumer   Industrial segment and the Sensing   Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy businesses
of Enterprise Solutions are now part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure segment. The Security business of Enterprise Solutions is reported in Corporate Items and Eliminations prior to its sale in the first quarter of 2010. Also,
effective January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously
reported in GECAS, is included in CLL and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in Consumer, is included in CLL.      A description of our
operating segments as of December 31, 2010, can be found below, and details of segment profit by operating segment can be found in the Summary of Operating Segments table in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    
         (188)   

Table of Contents  

    Energy Infrastructure       Power plant products and services, including design, installation, operation and maintenance services are sold into global markets. Gas, steam and aeroderivative turbines, generators, combined cycle systems,
controls and related services, including total asset optimization solutions, equipment upgrades and long-term maintenance service agreements are sold to power generation and other industrial customers. Renewable energy solutions include wind
turbines and solar technology. Water treatment services and equipment include specialty chemical treatment programs, water purification equipment, mobile treatment systems and desalination processes. Energy offers integrated solutions using sensors
for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. In addition, it provides protection and control, communications,
power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Electrical equipment and control products include power panels,
switchgear and circuit breakers.      The Oil   Gas business sells surface and subsea drilling and production systems including blowout preventers,
equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders and high pressure reactors to national, international and independent oil and gas companies. Services include equipment overhauls and upgrades, pipeline inspection
and integrity services, remote monitoring and diagnostic, and contractual service agreements.       Technology Infrastructure    
  Aviation products and services include jet engines, aerospace systems and equipment, replacement parts and repair and maintenance services for all categories of
commercial aircraft; for a wide variety of military aircraft, including fighters, bombers, tankers and helicopters; for marine applications; and for executive and regional aircraft. Products and services are sold worldwide to airframe manufacturers,
airlines and government agencies.      Healthcare products include diagnostic imaging systems such as Magnetic Resonance (MR), Computed Tomography (CT) and
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanners, X-ray, nuclear imaging, digital mammography, and Molecular Imaging technologies. Healthcare-manufactured technologies include patient and resident monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone
densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care devices. Related services include equipment monitoring and repair, information technologies and customer productivity services. Products also include diagnostic imaging
agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing and purification, and tools for protein and cellular analysis for pharmaceutical and academic research, including a pipeline of precision molecular
diagnostics in development for neurology, cardiology and oncology applications. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market.
     Transportation products and maintenance services include diesel electric locomotives, transit propulsion equipment, motorized wheels for off-highway
vehicles, gearing technology for wind turbines, drill motors, marine and stationary power generation, railway signaling and office systems.      Effective
January 1, 2011, we reorganized the Technology Infrastructure segment into three segments   Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. Results for 2010 and prior periods are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2010
and do not reflect the January 1, 2011 reorganization.       NBC Universal       Principal businesses are the broadcast of U.S. network television, production and distribution of films and television programs, operation of television stations, operation of cable/satellite television networks
around the world, operation of theme parks, and investment and programming activities in digital media and the Internet.   
         (189)   

Table of Contents  

   Prior to September 2010, we owned 80% of NBCU and Vivendi owned 20%. In September 2010, we acquired approximately 38%
of Vivendi s 20% ownership interest in NBCU (7.7% of NBCU s outstanding shares). Prior to and in connection with the transaction with Comcast, we acquired the remaining Vivendi interest in NBCU (12.3% of NBCU s outstanding shares). On
January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast transferred certain of its assets comprising cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments to a newly
formed entity, NBCU LLC. In connection with the transaction, we received cash of $6,197 million from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will account for our investment in NBCU LLC under
the equity method.       GE Capital       CLL products
include loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles;
corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries.      Consumer offers a range of financial products including private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposits and other savings
products; and small and medium enterprise lending on a global basis.      Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions and
finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties.   
  Energy Financial Services offers financial products to the global energy and water industries including structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing,
product finance, and broad-based commercial finance.      GECAS provides financial products to airlines, aircraft operators, owners, lenders and investors,
including leases, and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing.   
         (190)   

Table of Contents  

    Home   Business Solutions       Products include major appliances and related services for products such as refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air
conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. These products are distributed both to retail outlets and direct to consumers, mainly for the replacement market, and to building contractors
and distributors for new installations. Lighting products include a wide variety of lamps and lighting fixtures, including light-emitting diodes. Plant automation hardware, software and embedded computing systems including controllers, embedded
systems, advanced software, motion control, operator interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Home   Business Solutions. Products and services are sold in North America and in global markets under various GE and
private-label brands.       Revenues        

(a)  
  Revenues of GE businesses include income from sales of goods and services to customers and other income.     

(b)  
  Sales from one component to another generally are priced at equivalent commercial selling prices.        Revenues from customers located in the United States were $70,506 million, $72,240 million and $85,012 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues from customers located outside the United States were
$79,705 million, $83,038 million and $96,569 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         (191)   

Table of Contents  

(a)  
  Assets of discontinued operations are included in Corporate items and eliminations for all periods presented.     

(b)  
  Total assets of the Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, GE Capital and Home   Business Solutions operating segments at December 31, 2010, include
investment in and advances to associated companies of $667 million, $856 million, $25,662 million and $430 million, respectively. Investments in and advances to associated companies contributed approximately $58 million, $40 million, $284 million,
$2,035 million and $30 million to segment pre-tax income of Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, GE Capital and Home   Business Solutions operating segments, respectively, for the year ended December 31,
2010. Aggregate summarized financial information for significant associated companies assuming a 100% ownership interest included: total assets of $198,571 million, primarily financing receivables of $97,561 million; total liabilities of $152,812
million, primarily bank deposits of $75,661 million; revenues totaling $15,659 million; and net earnings totaling $2,895 million.     

(c)  
  Additions to property, plant and equipment include amounts relating to principal businesses purchased.     

(a)  
  Included amounts for Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal and Home   Business Solutions for which our measure of segment profit excludes
interest and other financial charges and income taxes.        Property, plant and equipment   net associated with operations based in the
United States were $17,596 million, $19,798 million and $27,667 million at year-end 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Property, plant and equipment   net associated with operations based outside the United States were $48,618 million, $49,172
million and $50,861 million at year-end 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         192   

Table of Contents  

NOTE 29. QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)    
   
    For GE, gross profit from sales is sales of goods and services
less costs of goods and services sold.      Earnings-per-share amounts are computed independently each quarter for earnings from continuing operations,
earnings (loss) from discontinued operations and net earnings. As a result, the sum of each quarter s per-share amount may not equal the total per-share amount for the respective year; and the sum of per-share amounts from continuing operations
and discontinued operations may not equal the total per-share amounts for net earnings for the respective quarters.   
      Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
      Not applicable.   
     Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.       Under the direction of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting and concluded that (i) our
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2010, and (ii) no change in internal control over financial reporting occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2010, that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, such internal control over financial reporting.      Management s annual report on internal control over
financial reporting and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm appears in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report.   
         (193)   

Table of Contents  

      Item 9B. Other Information.    
  Not applicable.       Part III    
     Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.       Executive Officers of the Registrant (As of February 1, 2011)       

Name    
      
     Position    
      
   Age   
      
     Date assumed   
   Executive   
   Officer Position     

Jeffrey R. Immelt  
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  54  
      
  January 1997   
 
  Kathryn A. Cassidy  
      
    Senior Vice President and GE Treasurer   
      
  56  
      
  March 2003   
 
  Pamela Daley  
      
    Senior Vice President, Corporate Business Development   
      
  58  
      
  July 2004   
 
  Brackett B. Denniston III  
      
    Senior Vice President and General Counsel   
      
  63  
      
  February 2004   
 
  John Krenicki, Jr.  
      
    Vice Chairman of General Electric Company; President   CEO, GE Energy Infrastructure   
      
  48  
      
  July 2008   
 
  John F. Lynch  
      
    Senior Vice President, Human Resources   
      
  58  
      
  January 2007   
 
  Jamie S. Miller  
      
    Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer   
      
  42  
      
  April 2008   
 
  Michael A. Neal  
      
    Vice Chairman of General Electric Company; President   CEO, GE Capital   
      
  57  
      
  September 2002   
 
  John G. Rice  
      
    Vice Chairman of General Electric Company; President   CEO, Global Growth   Operations   
      
  54  
      
  September 1997   
 
  Keith S. Sherin  
      
    Vice Chairman of General Electric Company and Chief Financial Officer   
      
  52  
      
  January 1999       All Executive Officers are elected by the Board of Directors for
an initial term which continues until the Board meeting immediately preceding the next annual statutory meeting of shareowners, and thereafter are elected for one-year terms or until their successors have been elected. All Executive Officers have
been executives of General Electric Company for the last five years except for Ms. Miller. Prior to joining GE in April 2008, Ms. Miller served as the Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of Wellpoint, Inc. Prior
to joining Wellpoint in August 2007, Ms. Miller served as a partner with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. From May 2004 to August 2005, she was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at Genworth Financial (formerly GE
Financial Assurance) having joined in 2003 as Controller.      The remaining information called for by this item is incorporated by reference to
 Election of Directors,   Corporate Governance  and  Board of Directors and Committees  in our definitive proxy statement for our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held April 27, 2011, which will be filed
within 120 days of the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 (the 2011 Proxy Statement).         Item 11.
Executive Compensation.       Incorporated by reference to  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report, 
 2010 Summary Compensation Table,   2010 Grants of Plan-Based Awards,   2010 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,   2010 Option Exercises and Stock Vested,   2010 Pension Benefits, 
 2010 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation,   Potential Payments Upon Termination  and  2010 Non-management Directors  Compensation  in the 2011 Proxy Statement.   
         (194)   

Table of Contents  

      Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters.       Incorporated by reference to  Information on Stock Ownership  in the 2011 Proxy Statement. The remaining information
called for by this item relating to  Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans  is provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data  of this Form 10-K Report.         Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence.       Incorporated by reference to  Related Person Transactions  and  Corporate Governance  in the 2011 Proxy
Statement.         Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services.    
  Incorporated by reference to  Independent Auditor  in the 2011 Proxy Statement.       Part IV          Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.    
   (a)1. Financial Statements        Included in Part II of this
report:        

Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareowners  Equity for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008   

Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2010 and 2009   

Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008   

Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

Other financial information:   

Summary of Operating Segments   

Notes to consolidated financial statements   

Operating segment information   

Geographic segment information   

Operations by quarter (unaudited)   

(a)2. Financial Statement Schedules       The schedules listed in Reg. 210.5-04 have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.   
         (195)   

Table of Contents  

    (a)3. Exhibit Index        
 
         (196)   

Table of Contents  

4(i)   
     
  Senior Note Indenture dated as of January 1, 2003, between General Electric and The Bank of New York, as trustee for the senior debt securities (Incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 4(a) to General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 29, 2003 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

4(j)   
     
  Form of GECC Global Medium-Term Note, Series A, Fixed Rate Registered Note (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(r) to GECC s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File
No. 333-156929 (Commission file number 001-06461)).   

4(k)   
     
  Form of GECC Global Medium-Term Note, Series A, Floating Rate Registered Note (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(s) to the GECC s Registration Statement on Form S-3,
File No. 333-156929 (Commission file number 001-06461)).   

4(l)   
     
  Form of LIBOR Floating Rate Note (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 29, 2003 (Commission file number
001-00035)).   

4(m)   
     
  Ninth Amended and Restated Fiscal and Paying Agency Agreement among GECC, GE Capital Australia Funding Pty Ltd., GE Capital European Funding, GE Capital Canada Funding Company,
GE Capital U.K. Funding and The Bank of New York Mellon and The Bank of New York Mellon (Luxembourg) S.A., as fiscal and paying agents, dated as of April 6, 2010 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(i) to GECC s Annual Report on Form 10-K
(Commission file number 001-06461) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010).   

4(n)   
     
  Indenture dated December 1, 2005, between General Electric and The Bank of New York, as successor trustee (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) of General Electric s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 9, 2005 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

4(o)   
     
  Form of 5.250% Note due 2017 (Incorporated by referenced to Exhibit 4(b) of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2007 (Commission file number
001-00035)).   

4(p)   
     
  Letter from the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of General Electric to GECC dated September 15, 2006, with respect to returning dividends, distributions or
other payments to GECC in certain circumstances described in the Indenture for Subordinated Debentures dated September 1, 2006, between GECC and the Bank of New York, as successor trustee (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to GECC s
Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-132807 (Commission file number 001-06461)).   

4(q)   
     
  Form of Warrants issued on October 16, 2008 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 2008
(Commission file number 001-00035)).   

4(r)   
     
  Agreement to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request a copy of instruments defining the rights of holders of certain long-term debt of the registrant and
consolidated subsidiaries.*   

(10)   
     
  Except for 10(u)-10(z) below, all of the following exhibits consist of Executive Compensation Plans or Arrangements:   

(a)  
      
  General Electric Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended effective July 1, 1991 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file
number 001-00035) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1991).   

(b)  
      
  General Electric Financial Planning Program, as amended through September 1993 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to General Electric Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file
number 001-00035) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993).    
         (197)   

Table of Contents  

(198)   

Table of Contents  

(p)  
      
  Form of Agreement for Periodic Restricted Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.4 of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

(q)  
      
  Form of Agreement for Long Term Performance Award Grants to Executive Officers under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
of General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

(r)  
      
  Form of Agreement for Performance Stock Unit Grants to Executive Officers under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of
General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 27, 2007 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

(s)  
      
  First Restatement of the General Electric International Employee Stock Purchase Plan effective May 1, 2002 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to General Electric s Registration
Statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-163106 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

(t)  
      
  Form of Agreement for Long Term Performance Award Grants to Executive Officers under the General Electric Company 2007 Long-term Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 of
General Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 12, 2010 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

(u)  
      
  Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of December 3, 2009 between General Electric Company and Vivendi S.A. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(t) to General Electric s Annual Report
on Form 10-K (Commission file number 001-00035) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009).   

(v)  
      
  Commitment Letter dated as of December 3, 2009 among NBC Universal, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., Morgan Stanley Senior
Funding, Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, Bank of America, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) to General Electric s Annual Report on Form 10-K (Commission file number 001-00035) for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2009).   

(w)  
      
  Amended and Restated Income Maintenance Agreement, dated October 29, 2009, between the Registrant and General Electric Capital Corporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to
General Electric Capital Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (Commission file number 001-06461)).   

(x)  
      
  Three-Year Credit Agreement dated March 19, 2010 among NBC Universal, Inc., the Financial Institutions Party Thereto JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Issuing Lender,
Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents and Bank of America, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Co-Documentation Agents (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to General
Electric s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 19, 2010 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

(y)  
      
  Bridge Loan Agreement dated March 19, 2010 among NBC Universal, Inc. and the Financial Institutions Party Thereto JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit
Partners L.P. and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Co-Syndication Agents and Bank of America, N.A. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as Co-Documentation Agents (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to General Electric s Current
Report on Form 8-K dated March 19, 2010 (Commission file number 001-00035)).   

(z)  
      
  Time Sharing Agreement dated November 22, 2010 between General Electric Company and Jeffrey R. Immelt.*   

(11)   
     
  Statement re Computation of Per Share Earnings.**    
         (199)   

Table of Contents  

*  
  Filed electronically herewith.         

**  
  Information required to be presented in Exhibit 11 is provided in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8.  Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K Report in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification 260,  Earnings Per Share .     
         (200)   

Table of Contents  

***  
  Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files on Exhibit 101 hereto are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of
Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under those sections.
    
         (201)   

Table of Contents  

      Signatures       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, and in the capacities indicated, thereunto duly authorized in the Town of Fairfield and State of Connecticut on the 25th day of February 2011.   
  General Electric Company   
  (Registrant)       

By  
     
    /s/ Keith S. Sherin    

Keith S. Sherin   

Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer                    

(Principal Financial Officer)    
         (202)   

Table of Contents  

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signer  

Title  

Date   

/s/ Keith S. Sherin   

Principal Financial Officer  

February 25, 2011   

Keith S. Sherin     Vice Chairman and  
  Chief Financial Officer   

/s/ Jamie S. Miller   

Principal Accounting Officer  

February 25, 2011   

Jamie S. Miller     Vice President and
Controller   

Jeffrey R. Immelt*  

Chairman of the Board of Directors     (Principal Executive Officer)   

W. Geoffrey Beattie*  

Director  

James I. Cash, Jr.*  

Director  

William M. Castell*  

Director  

Ann M. Fudge*  

Director  

Susan Hockfield*  

Director  

Andrea Jung*  

Director  

Alan G. Lafley*  

Director  

Robert W. Lane*  

Director  

Ralph S. Larsen*  

Director  

Rochelle B. Lazarus*  

Director  

James J. Mulva*  

Director  

Sam Nunn*  

Director  

Roger S. Penske*  

Director  

Robert J. Swieringa*  

Director  

James S. Tisch*  

Director  

Douglas A. Warner III*  

Director  

A majority of the Board of Directors  

*By  
     
    /s/ Michael R. McAlevey   

Michael R. McAlevey     Attorney-in-fact  
  February 25, 2011   

(203)   

<EX-4.(R)>
 2
 dex4r.htm
 AGREEMENT TO FURNISH INSTRUMENTS DEFINING THE RIGHTS OF HOLDERS

Agreement to furnish instruments defining the rights of holders 

Exhibit 4(r)        

Kathryn A. Cassidy      Senior Vice President
and GE Treasurer         General Electric Company  
  3135 Easton Turnpike     Fairfield, CT
06828        Securities and Exchange Commission      100 F Street, NE      Washington, DC 20549      February 25, 2011      Subject: General Electric Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2010        File No. 001-00035      Dear Sirs:      Neither General Electric Company (the  Company ) nor any of its consolidated subsidiaries has
outstanding any instrument with respect to its long-term debt, other than those filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, under which the total amount of securities
authorized exceeds 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR Sec. 229.601), the Company hereby agrees to furnish to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, a copy of each instrument that defines the rights of holders of such long term debt not filed or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.      Very truly yours,      GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY       

/s/ Kathryn A. Cassidy    
 
  Kathryn A. Cassidy   
 
  Senior Vice President and GE Treasurer    

</EX-4.(R)>

<EX-10.(G)>
 3
 dex10g.htm
 GENERAL ELECTRIC SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION PLAN

General Electric Supplementary Pension Plan 

Exhibit 10(g)        GE Supplementary        Pension Plan        Effective January 1, 2011         Introduction     
  The GE Supplementary Pension Plan shall consist of two parts as set forth herein. Part I describes Supplementary Pension Annuity Benefits, and Part II describes
Executive Retirement Installment Benefits.      Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, effective January 1, 2011, Part I of the Plan is
closed. Accordingly, an Employee shall be eligible for a Supplementary Pension Annuity Benefit only if he participated in this Plan on or before December 31, 2010 (and shall actually receive such benefit only if he meets all the other
applicable requirements therefor). For purposes of determining whether an Employee participated in the Plan on or before December 31, 2010: (a) any period of service described in Section XV(b) shall be disregarded and (b) an Employee
shall be deemed to have met such requirement if he waived participation in the GE Pension Plan, but was otherwise eligible to participate in this Plan and is not an Excluded Employee under the GE Pension Plan.   
  Part I and Part II of the Plan provide mutually exclusive benefits, and eligible Employees shall earn their entire benefits under the Plan either under Part I or
Part II, but not both. Consistent with the foregoing, and subject to the service disregard rule in Section XV(b) and to the deemed participation rule described in (b) of the preceding paragraph, an Employee who first participates in this Plan
under Part II may only participate under Part II, and an Employee who first participated in this Plan under Part I may only participate under Part I.   
  The Pension Board may adopt such rules as it deems necessary to determine which Part of the Plan applies to which Employees.   
  As described in Section XXIII, certain provisions of Part I apply to Part II, but no provisions of Part II apply to Part I (except that, as described above, the
service disregard rule in Section XV(b) shall apply in determining which Part of the Plan applies to which Employees).   

Part I: Supplementary Pension Annuity Benefits     
   (closed to new participants)       As more fully
described in the Introduction (and subject to the rules thereof), this Part I of the Plan is closed effective January 1, 2011, and an Employee shall be eligible to participate under this Part I (and not Part II) only if he participated in the
Plan on or before December 31, 2010 (and shall actually receive a benefit under this Part only if he meets all the other applicable requirements therefor).       Section I.        Eligible Employees       Each Employee who is assigned to the GE Executive or higher Career Band (or a position of equivalent responsibility as determined by the Pension Board), who has five or more years of Pension Qualification Service
and who is a participant in the GE Pension Plan shall be eligible to participate, and shall participate, in this Supplementary Pension Plan to the extent of the benefits provided herein, provided that:   

(a)  
  the foregoing shall not apply to an Employee of a Company other than General Electric Company which has not agreed to bear the cost of this Plan with respect to its Employees,
and         

(b)  
  except as provided in Section V, an Employee who retires under the optional retirement provisions of the GE Pension Plan before the first day of the month following attainment of
age 60, or an Employee who leaves the Service of the Company before attainment of age 60, shall not be eligible for a Supplementary Pension under this Plan.        An employee of any other company who participates in the GE Pension Plan, though the employing company does not participate in the GE Pension Plan, shall be eligible for benefits under this Plan, provided that such
employee meets the job position requirement specified above, and the employee s participation in the Supplementary Pension Plan is accepted by the Pension Board.      An Employee who was eligible to participate in this Plan by virtue of his assigned position level or position of equivalent responsibility throughout any consecutive three years of the fifteen year period ending on
the last day of the month preceding his termination of Service date for retirement and who meets the other requirements specified in this Section shall be eligible for the benefits provided herein even though he does not meet the eligibility
requirements on the date his Service terminates.      The Chief Executive Officer of General Electric Company, or his delegate, may approve the continued
participation in the Plan of an individual who is localized outside the United States as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate and who otherwise meets all of the eligibility conditions set forth herein during such localization. The designated
individual s service and pay while localized, with appropriate offsets for local country   
         2   

benefits, shall be counted in calculating his Supplementary Pension. Such calculation and the individual s entitlement to any benefits herein shall be determined consistent with the
principles of the Plan as they apply to participants who are not localized, provided that the Chief Executive Officer, or his delegate, may direct such other treatment, if any, as he deems appropriate.   
   Section II.        Definitions    

(a)  
  Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit - The Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit shall mean the annual equivalent of the maximum possible Primary Insurance Amount payable,
after reduction for early retirement, as an old-age benefit to an employee who retired at age 62 on January 1st of the calendar year in which occurred the Employee s actual date of retirement or death, whichever is earlier; provided,
however, that in the case of an Employee who is a New Plan Participant on the date of his termination of Service, age 65 shall be substituted for age 62 above. Such Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be determined by the Company in
accordance with the Federal Social Security Act in effect at the end of the calendar year immediately preceding such January 1st.        For determinations which become effective on or after January 1, 1978, if an Employee has less than 35 years of Pension Benefit Service, the Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be the amount
determined under the first paragraph of this definition hereof multiplied by a factor, the numerator of which shall be the number of years of the Employee s Pension Benefit Service to his date of retirement or death, whichever is earlier, and
the denominator of which shall be 35.      The Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit as so determined shall be adjusted to include any
social security, severance or similar benefit provided under foreign law or regulation as the Pension Board may prescribe.       

(b)  
  Annual Pension Payable under the GE Pension Plan - The Annual Pension Payable under the GE Pension Plan shall mean the sum of (1) the total annual past service annuity,
future service annuity and Personal Pension Account Annuity deemed to be credited to the Employee as of his date of retirement or death, whichever is earlier, plus any additional annual amount required to provide the minimum pension under the GE
Pension Plan and (2) any annual pension (or the annual pension equivalent of other forms of payment) payable under any other pension plan, policy, contract, or government program attributable to periods for which Pension Benefit Service is
granted by the Chairman of the Board or the Pension Board or is credited by the GE Pension Plan provided the Pension Board determines such annual pension shall be deductible from the benefit payable under this Plan. All such amounts shall be
determined before application of any reduction factors for optional or disability retirement, for election of any optional form of Pension at retirement, a qualified domestic relations order(s), if any, or in connection with any other adjustment
made pursuant to the GE Pension Plan or any other pension plan.     
         3   

For the purposes of this paragraph, the Employee s Annual Pension Payable under the GE Pension
Plan shall include the Personal Pension Account Annuity deemed payable to the Employee or the Employee s spouse on the date of the Employee s retirement or death as the case may be, regardless of whether such annuity commenced on such
date.       

(c)  
  Annual Retirement Income - For Employees who retire on or after July 1, 1988 or who die in active Service on or after such date, an Employee s Annual Retirement Income
shall mean the amount determined by multiplying 1.75% of the Employee s Average Annual Compensation by the number of years of Pension Benefit Service completed by the Employee at the date of his retirement or death, whichever is earlier.

(d)  
  Average Annual Compensation - Average Annual Compensation means one-third of the Employee s Compensation for the highest 36 consecutive months during the last 120 completed
months before his date of retirement or death, whichever is earlier. In computing an Employee s Average Annual Compensation, his normal straight-time earnings shall be substituted for his actual Compensation for any month in which such normal
straight-time earnings are greater. The Pension Board shall specify the basis for determining any Employee s Compensation for any portion of the 120 completed months used to compute the Employee s Average Annual Compensation during which
the Employee was not employed by an Employer participating in this Plan.         

(e)  
  Compensation - For periods after December 31, 1969,  Compensation  for the purposes of this Plan shall mean with respect to the period in question salary
(including any deferred salary approved by the Pension Board as compensation for purposes of this Plan) plus:         

(1)  
  for persons then eligible for Incentive Compensation, the total amount of any Incentive Compensation earned except to the extent such Incentive Compensation is excluded by the
Board of Directors or a committee thereof;         

(2)  
  for persons who would then have been eligible for Incentive Compensation if they had not been participants in a Sales Commission Plan or other variable compensation plan, the
total amount of sales commissions (or other variable compensation earned);         

(3)  
  for all other persons, the sales commissions and other variable compensation earned by them but only to the extent such earnings were then included under the GE Pension Plan;
    
         4   

plus any amounts (other than salary and those mentioned in clauses (1) through (3) above)
which were then included as Compensation under the GE Pension Plan except any amounts which the Pension Board may exclude from the computation of  Compensation  and subject to the powers of the Committee under Section IX hereof.
     For periods before January 1, 1970,  Compensation  for the purposes of this Plan has the same meaning as under the GE
Pension Plan applying the rules in effect during such periods.      The definition set forth in this paragraph (e) shall apply to the
calculation of any and all Supplementary Pension benefits payable on and after January 1, 1976. All such payments made prior to January 1, 1976 shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan in effect prior to such date.
     Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in no event will Incentive Compensation, commissions and similar variable
compensation paid after the end of the calendar year in which the Employee s Service terminates be disregarded as Compensation hereunder as a result of the exclusion of such remuneration from Compensation under the GE Pension Plan pursuant to
the last sentence of the first paragraph of the definition of  Compensation  set forth in Section XXVI therein.       

(f)  
  Grandfathered Employee - Grandfathered Employee means an Employee who did not accrue or acquire a non-forfeitable interest in any benefits hereunder on or after January 1,
2005.         

(g)  
  Grandfathered Plan Benefit - Grandfathered Plan Benefit means:         

(1)  
  in the case of Grandfathered Employees, their entire Supplementary Pension hereunder.     

(2)  
  in the case of Grandfathered Specified Employees, the accrued, non-forfeitable annuity to which the Grandfathered Specified Employee would have been entitled under this Plan if
the Grandfathered Specified Employee voluntarily terminated employment on December 31, 2004, and received a payment of the benefits available from this Plan (A) on the earliest possible date allowed under this Plan to receive a payment of
benefits following Separation from Service, and (B) in any payment form permitted under the GE Pension Plan on December 31, 2004. If a Grandfathered Specified Employee elects to receive benefits in the form of a 75% Alternative Survivor
Benefit under the principles of Section IX.10 of the GE Pension Plan, then his Grandfathered Plan Benefit with respect to such form of distribution shall be the portion attributable to his accrued benefit as of December 31, 2004 as determined
above and based on the methodology set forth in Section IX.10 of the GE Pension Plan for converting benefits to this form of distribution.     
         5   

(h)  
  Grandfathered Specified Employee - Grandfathered Specified Employee means a Specified Employee determined as of December 31, 2008 who had a non-forfeitable interest
hereunder as of December 31, 2004.         

(i)  
  Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit - Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit means all of the Supplementary Pension payable under this Plan except for the Grandfathered Plan Benefit.

(j)  
  Officers - Officers shall mean the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairmen, the President, the Vice Presidents, Officer Equivalents and such other Employees as the Committee
referred to in Section IX hereof may designate.         

(k)  
  Pension Benefit Service - Pension Benefit Service shall have the same meaning herein as in the GE Pension Plan except that for periods before January 1, 1976, the term
Credited Service as a full-time Employee shall also include all Service credited under the GE Pension Plan to such Employee for any period during which he was a full-time Employee for purposes of such GE Pension Plan.     
  Pension Benefit Service shall also include:       

(1)  
  any period of Service with the Company or an Affiliate as the Pension Board may otherwise provide by rules and regulations issued with respect to this Plan, and,

(2)  
  any period of service with another employer as may be approved from time to time by the Chairman of the Board but only to the extent that any conditions specified in such
approval have been met.         

(l)  
  Pension Qualification Service - Pension Qualification Service shall have the same meaning herein as in the GE Pension Plan except that for periods before January 1, 1976 the
term Credited Service used in determining such Pension Qualification Service shall mean only Service for which an Employee is credited with a past service annuity or a future service annuity under the GE Pension Plan (plus his first year of Service
where such year is recognized as additional Credited Service under that Plan), except as the Pension Board may otherwise provide by rules and regulations issued with respect to this Plan.     

(m)  
  Separation from Service - Separation from Service means an Employee s termination of employment with the Company and all Affiliates (defined for purposes of this Plan as any
company or business entity in which General Electric Company has a 50% or more interest whether or not a participating employer in the Plan); provided that, Separation from Service for purposes of the Plan shall be interpreted consistent with the
requirements of Section 409A and regulations and other guidance issued thereunder. For purposes of clarity, any references in this Plan to Service in the context of determining the time or form of benefits will not extend beyond an
Employee s Separation from Service.     
         6   

(n)  
  Specified Employee - Specified Employee means a specified employee as described in the Company s Procedures for Determining Specified Employees under Code Section 409A,
as amended from time to time.        All other terms used in this Plan which are defined in the GE Pension Plan shall have the same meanings
herein as therein, unless otherwise expressly provided in this Plan.       Section III.    
   Amount of Supplementary Pension at or After Normal Retirement    

(a)  
  The annual Supplementary Pension payable to an eligible Employee who retires on or after his normal retirement date within the meaning of the GE Pension Plan shall be equal to
the excess, if any, of the Employee s Annual Retirement Income, over the sum of:         

(1)  
  the Employee s Annual Pension Payable under the GE Pension Plan;         

(2)  
     1   /  2   of the Employee s Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit;          

(3)  
  the Employee s annual excess benefit, if any, payable under the GE Excess Benefit Plan; and     

(4)  
  The Employee s annual benefit, if any, payable under the GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan.     
  Such Supplementary Pension shall be subject to the limitations specified in Section IX.   

(b)  
  The Supplementary Pension of an Employee who continues in the Service of the Company or an Affiliate after his normal retirement date shall not commence before his actual
retirement date following Separation from Service, regardless of whether such Employee has attained age
70-   1   /  2   and commenced receiving his pension under the GE
Pension Plan.          

(c)  
  Consistent with established Company procedures, if an eligible Employee commences his Supplementary Pension at the time set forth in Section X(a) but remains in protected service
for other purposes by reason of not also retiring under the GE Pension Plan, his initial Supplementary Pension Plan benefit shall be based on his service credits earned up to the commencement date of his Supplementary Pension Plan benefit. Following
the eligible Employee s break in protected service, the dollar amount (but not the time or form of distribution) of the eligible Employee s Supplementary Pension Plan benefit shall be adjusted consistent with such procedures to take into
account any additional service credits the eligible Employee may have earned under the GE Pension Plan and any related offsets.     
         7   

Section IV.        Amount of Supplementary Pension at Optional or Disability Retirement        

(a)  
  The annual Supplementary Pension payable to an eligible Employee who, following attainment of age 60, retires hereunder on an optional retirement date within the meaning of
Section V.1. of the GE Pension Plan shall be computed in the manner provided by Section III(a) (for an Employee retiring on his normal retirement date) but taking into account only Pension Benefit Service and Average Annual Compensation to the
actual date of optional retirement. Such Supplementary Pension shall be subject to the limitations specified in Section IX. In the event such Employee is a New Plan Participant on the date of his termination of Service, such Supplementary Pension,
as so limited, shall be reduced to reflect commencement before his normal retirement date by applying the methodology provided under Section V.3. of the GE Pension Plan. Consistent with the foregoing, such reduction shall equal 5/12% for each month
from such Employee s optional retirement date to his normal retirement date. Said reduction shall not be imposed, however, in the event such Employee terminates from the Service of the Company on or after (1) attainment of at least age 62
and (2) completion of at least 25 years of Pension Qualification Service under the GE Pension Plan.         

(b)  
  The annual Supplementary Pension payable to an eligible Employee who retires on a Disability Pension under Section VII of the GE Pension Plan and who qualifies as disabled by
receiving income replacement benefits under a Company plan for a period of not less than three months and otherwise meeting the requirements under Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(4) and regulations and other guidance issued thereunder shall
first be computed in the manner provided by Section III(a) (for an Employee retiring on his normal retirement date) taking into account only Pension Benefit Service and Average Annual Compensation to the actual date of disability retirement. Such
Supplementary Pension shall be subject to the limitations specified in Section IX. Such Supplementary Pension, as so limited, shall be reduced to reflect commencement before the Employee s earliest optional retirement age by applying the
methodology provided under Section VII.3. of the GE Pension Plan, subject to Section X(a)(3)(A)(ii) below.        If the
Disability Pension payable to the Employee under the GE Pension Plan is discontinued thereunder as a result of the cessation of the Employee s disability prior to the attainment of age 60, the Supplementary Pension provided under this Section
IV(b) shall be forfeited and the Employee shall only be eligible for a Supplementary Pension to the extent he separately qualifies under another provision set forth herein.   
         8   

Section V.        Special Benefit Protection for Certain Employees        

(a)  
  A former Employee whose Service with the Company is terminated on or after June 27, 1988, before attainment of age 60 and after completion of 25 or more years of Pension
Qualification Service who does not withdraw his contributions from the GE Pension Plan before retirement and who meets one of the following conditions shall be eligible for a Supplementary Pension under this Plan commencing at the time set forth in
Section X.(a).         

(1)  
  The Employee s Service is terminated because of a Plant Closing.         

(2)  
  The Employee s Service is terminated for transfer to a Successor Employer. The conditions of this paragraph (2) shall not be satisfied, however, if the transferred
Employee retires under the GE Pension Plan before July 1, 2000 and prior to the later of (A) his termination of service with the Successor Employer and (B) the first of the month following attainment of age 60.

(3)  
  The Employee s Service terminated after one year on layoff with protected service.        Effective July 1, 1994 and regardless of whether the Employee terminated Service on, before or after such date, for purposes of this Section V(a) and any other provision of this Plan, a former Employee will be
deemed to have withdrawn his contributions from the GE Pension Plan at such time the payment of benefits attributable to such contributions commences, regardless of whether such contributions are paid in the form of a lump sum or an annuity.

(b)  
  The Supplementary Pension, if any, for Employees who meet the conditions in Section V(a) shall be calculated in accordance with the provisions of Section IV(a), including the
imposition of the reduction described therein to reflect a commencement date occurring before normal retirement date in the case of Employees who are New Plan Participants on the date of their termination of Service. For purposes of making this
calculation, the Employee s: (1) Pension Benefit Service to the Service termination date shall be considered; (2) Average Annual Compensation shall be based on the last 120 completed months before such Service termination date; and
(3) Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit shall be determined as though the Employee s retirement date was such Service termination date.         

(c)  
  No Supplementary Pension shall be payable to any former Employee who elects to accelerate the commencement of his pension under the GE Pension Plan under Section XI.4.b(iii)
therein, nor shall any death or survivor benefits be payable hereunder with respect to such an Employee.     
         9   

(d)  
  In the event a former Employee whose service with the Company was terminated under circumstances entitling him to a benefit pursuant to this Section V is reemployed, such
Employee will retain a non-forfeitable interest in a benefit equal to the amount payable under this provision attributable to such Employee s first period of service (with the calculation of any offsets determined in accordance with established
administrative practices and based upon assumptions in effect as of such Employee s first termination date). The same principle shall apply in determining the non-forfeitable interest hereunder of similarly-situated Employees with less than 25
years of Pension Qualification Service who, as a result of Company action, attained a non-forfeitable interest in their Supplementary Pension upon transfer to a successor employer and are subsequently re-employed by the Company.
        Section VI.    
   Survivor Benefits       If a survivor benefit
applies with respect to an Employee s Supplementary Pension pursuant to Section X below, his Supplementary Pension shall be reduced in the same manner as the pension payable under the GE Pension Plan is reduced under such circumstances in
accordance with the principles of Section IX of the GE Pension Plan.       Section VII.    
   Payments Upon Death       If an eligible Employee
dies in active Service or following retirement on a Supplementary Pension, or if a former Employee entitled to a Supplementary Pension pursuant to Section V dies prior to such retirement, (1) the principles of Section X of the GE Pension Plan
(disregarding any references therein to Employee contributions) shall apply to determine whether a death benefit is payable to the beneficiary or Surviving Spouse of such Employee under this Supplementary Pension Plan, and (2) any such death
benefit shall be computed and paid in accordance with such principles, based on the Supplementary Pension payable under this Plan; provided, however, that:       

(a)  
    with respect to any pre-retirement death benefit attributable to Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits where a Surviving Spouse otherwise would have a choice to
receive such benefit as an annuity in accordance with the principles of Section X.9 of the GE Pension Plan (Preretirement Spouse Benefit) or as a lump sum in accordance with the principles of either Section X.2 (Five Year Certain (Death After
Optional Retirement Age)) or Section X.3 (Five Year Certain (Death After 15 Years Pension Qualification Service)) of the GE Pension Plan, the lump sum value of such benefit under each applicable paragraph shall be determined (in the case of the
Preretirement Spouse Benefit, based on the actuarial assumptions described in paragraph 3 of Section XV of the GE Pension Plan), and then the Surviving Spouse shall receive whichever resulting lump sum value is larger as of the first day of the
     
         10   

month following the Employee s death. For purposes of clarity, such Surviving Spouse shall not be eligible to receive an annuity in the form of the Preretirement Spouse Benefit under the
principles of Section X.9 of the GE Pension Plan; and          

(b)  
  with respect to any post-retirement death benefit attributable to Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits under the principles of Section X.11 of the GE Pension Plan (Five Year Certain
(No Survivor Benefit)), the calculation of the lump sum shall be determined without making any discount to present value. Consistent with the foregoing, such lump sum shall equal the excess of (1) 5 times the Employee s Supplementary
Pension payable as a single life annuity over (2) the total payments under this Plan to the Employee.         Section VIII.
       Employees Retired Before July 1, 1973       [Reserved-See Section VIII of this Plan prior to this reservation.]       Section IX.    
   Limitation on Benefits        

(a)  
  Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, if the sum of:         

(1)  
  the Supplementary Pension otherwise payable to an Employee hereunder;         

(2)  
  the Employee s Annual Pension Payable under the GE Pension Plan;         

(3)  
  100% of the Annual Estimated Social Security Benefit but before any adjustment for less than 35 years of Pension Benefit Service;     

(4)  
  the Employee s annual excess benefit, if any, payable under the GE Excess Benefit Plan; and     

(5)  
  The Employee s annual benefit, if any, payable under the GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan;     
  exceeds 60% of his Average Annual Compensation (with such Supplementary Pension and the amounts set forth in (2), (4) and (5) above
determined before imposition of any applicable reduction factor or adjustment for optional or disability retirement, a survivor benefit or otherwise), such Supplementary Pension (as so determined) shall be reduced by the amount of the excess. Any
further reductions or adjustments prescribed herein, including those applicable to Employees who are New Plan Participants on the date of their termination of Service, shall be applied against such reduced Supplementary Pension.   
         11   

(b)  
  Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan (other than Section XIV(e)) to the contrary, the amount of Supplementary Pension and any death or survivor benefit payable to or on
behalf of any Employee who is or was an Officer shall be determined in accordance with such general rules and regulations as may be adopted by a Committee appointed by the Board of Directors for such purpose, subject to the limitation that any such
Supplementary Pension or death benefit may not exceed the amount which would be payable hereunder in the absence of such rules and regulations.         Section X.        Payment of Supplementary Pension Benefits    

(a)  
   Time and Form of Payment.  This Section governs the time and form of payment of the Supplementary Pension on and after the retirement of an eligible Employee. See Section
VII above for certain additional rules regarding Payments on Death.         

(1)  
   General Provisions.  Supplementary Pensions shall be payable in monthly installments, each equal to 1/12th of the annual amount determined under the applicable Section. In
addition, the provisions of the GE Pension Plan with respect to the following shall apply to amounts payable under this Plan:        (A) The date of the last payment of any Supplementary Pension.      (B) Treatment of amounts payable to a
missing person.      In no event shall the accelerated payment option of Section XI.4.b(iii) of the GE Pension Plan apply with respect to
this Plan.       

(2)  
   Grandfathered Plan Benefits.  Payment of Supplementary Pensions provided for herein which are attributable to Grandfathered Plan Benefits shall be in the same form and
commence as of the same date as distribution is made pursuant to the Participant s election under the GE Pension Plan (subject to the special rule in Section III(b) of this Plan for Employees over age 70-   1   /  2  ).      

(3)  
   Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits.         (A)
 Time of Payment.        

(i)  
    Except as provided in paragraph (ii) below (relating to disability pensions), all payments of Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits shall commence on the first
day of the month after the Employee s Separation from Service or the Employee s attainment of age 60, if later; provided, however, that if an Employee is a Specified Employee, payment of any Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit shall not be made
within the first six months following the Employee s Separation from Service. In the event distribution to a      
         12   

Specified Employee is so delayed, payment of the Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit shall begin on the first day of the seventh month following Separation from Service and the first such payment
shall be increased to reflect the missed payments (with interest accumulated in accordance with Pension Board procedures).          

(ii)  
  Payment of Supplementary Pensions attributable to disability as provided for in Section IV(b) shall commence on the first day of the month after the Employee s Separation
from Service; provided, however, that the Employee shall forfeit any payments attributable to months prior to the first date on which a Disability Pension is actually paid under Section VII of the GE Pension Plan. For this purpose, any retroactive
payments that may be made under the GE Pension Plan shall be disregarded and no corresponding retroactive payments shall be made hereunder. However, if retroactive payments are made under the GE Pension Plan, the reduction factor to be applied
against the Supplementary Pension to reflect early commencement for disability shall be based on the date as of which the first retroactive payment, if any, is made under the GE Pension Plan.     

(B)  
   Form of Payment.  Unless an Employee makes an effective election pursuant to paragraph (B)(i) below, such benefits shall be paid as a 50% Survivor Benefit in accordance
with the principles of Section IX.1 and other provisions of the GE Pension Plan applicable thereto (for Employees who are married at the time their Supplementary Pension begins) or as a single life annuity in accordance with the principles of
Section XV, X.11 and other provisions of the GE Pension Plan applicable thereto (for Employees who are not married at the time their Supplementary Pension begins); provided, however, that:     

(i)  
    As an alternative to the normal distribution forms set forth in this paragraph (B), a married Employee may elect to receive all payments of Non-Grandfathered
Plan Benefits as a single life annuity as described above, a 100% Alternative Survivor Benefit in accordance with the principles of Section IX.3 and other provisions of the GE Pension Plan applicable thereto, or a 75% Alternative Survivor Benefit in
accordance with the principles of Section IX.10 and other provisions of the GE Pension Plan applicable thereto. In the case of a disability pension payable under Section IV(b) above, however, the 100% Alternative Survivor Benefit shall not be
available. An election under this paragraph may not be made more than 60 days following the date as of which payment is otherwise to commence in accordance with paragraph (3)(A) above. For purposes of clarity, if an Employee is a Specified
Employee for whom the Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit is delayed in accordance with paragraph (3)(A)(i) above, an election under this paragraph may be made anytime within the first six months following the Employee s Separation from
Service. If such Specified Employee dies during the six-month delay,      
         13   

the Specified Employee will be treated as if he retired before death, without regard to such delay, and commenced receiving his benefit either in accordance with his actual election under this
paragraph as to the form of distribution, or in accordance the rules in paragraph (3)(B) above if no such election was made before death.          

(ii)  
  Regardless of the initial form of payment for Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits, the revocation feature provided in Section IX.8 of the GE Pension Plan shall not apply to
Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits.         

(b)  
   Impact of Reemployment.  If an Employee is reemployed by the Company or an Affiliate, the following provisions shall apply with respect to the determination of the
Employee s Supplementary Pension:         

(1)  
   Grandfathered Plan Benefits . If the Employee s pension under the GE Pension Plan is suspended or may not commence for any month in accordance with the re-employment
provisions of that plan, the Employee s Supplementary Pension attributable to Grandfathered Plan Benefits that would otherwise be payable during such re-employment shall be forfeited under this Plan. For this purpose, any addition to the
Employee s Supplementary Pension which he may earn hereunder following such re-employment shall not cause such Grandfathered Plan Benefits to be reclassified as Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits. Upon the Employee s subsequent Separation
from Service, the Employee s original distribution election, if any, with respect to such original Grandfathered Plan Benefits shall be disregarded and such original Grandfathered Plan Benefit (adjusted for any additional accrual or reduction)
will be paid in accordance with the terms of the Plan in effect at the time of such subsequent Separation from Service applicable to Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits. If such subsequent Separation from Service is by reason of death, any survivor or
death benefits attributable to such original Grandfathered Plan Benefits (as so adjusted) will be determined in accordance with this Plan s pre-retirement death and survivor benefit provisions then applicable to Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits.
The preceding two sentences shall not apply to Grandfathered Specified Employees.         

(2)  
   Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits . If the Employee is rehired after having commenced receiving his Supplementary Pension, and in accordance with the terms of the GE Pension
Plan, the Employee would have had his pension therefrom suspended upon such re-employment, the Employee shall forfeit any benefits from this Plan attributable to his Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit that would otherwise be payable during such
re-employment. Upon the Employee s subsequent Separation from Service:         

(A)  
  If the Employee s Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit is the same or has decreased, then:     

(i)  
  the Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit earned during the first period of employment will resume immediately in the same form of distribution and with the same conversion and
reduction factors that applied to the original distribution of such benefit;     
         14   

(ii)  
  if such original distribution form was a 50% Survivor Benefit, 75% Alternative Survivor Benefit or 100% Alternative Survivor Benefit, any survivor benefits will be payable only
if the Surviving Spouse was married to the Participant at the time of his original retirement; and         

(iii)  
  such benefit will be reduced, as necessary, if the Employee s Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit decreases as a result of his second period of employment.
       If such subsequent Separation from Service is by reason of death, then any death or survivor benefits attributable to
Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits will be based on such original form of distribution with payment commencing on the first of the month following death. Survivor benefits will be payable only if the Surviving Spouse was married to the Employee at the
time of his original retirement and is otherwise eligible to receive payments hereunder.       

(B)  
  If the Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit payable upon such subsequent Separation from Service has increased as a result of the Employee s second period of employment, then the
above provisions set forth in paragraph (2)(A) will govern the Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit earned during the first period of employment (as applicable), and the following will apply to any additional Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit:

(i)  
  the additional benefit amount shall be distributed separately commencing on the first of the month following such subsequent Separation from Service based upon the
Employee s age, marital status and the otherwise applicable Plan terms at that time and any new distribution election made by the Employee in accordance with Section X(a)(3) above, and     

(ii)  
  if such subsequent Separation from Service is by reason of death, any survivor or death benefits attributable to such additional Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit will be determined
separately in accordance with this Plan s pre-retirement death and survivor benefit provisions.         

(3)  
  If an Employee is rehired under circumstances where he previously accrued a non-forfeitable interest in his Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit but had not commenced receiving such
benefit prior to his reemployment, the following shall apply:         

(A)  
    Such Employee shall forfeit the dollar amount of any Plan Benefits that would otherwise be paid while re-employed. However, such Employee will continue
     
         15   

to retain an interest in the Plan (herein referred to as his  retained interest ) equal to the original non-forfeitable amount, as determined in accordance with Section V(d) above.

(B)  
  Such retained interest and any additional Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit to which the Employee is entitled shall be payable following the Employee s subsequent Separation
from Service at the time and in the manner provided in Section X(a)(3). If the Employee dies before retirement, any survivor or death benefits attributable to such retained interest will be determined in accordance with this Plan s
pre-retirement death and survivor benefit provisions.         

(C)  
  If the Employee continues in service after attaining age 60, the Employee s retained interest shall commence after his subsequent Separation from Service at the time and in
the manner provided in Section X(a)(3) and shall be calculated using reduction and conversion factors applicable to an age 60 commencement (but based on the spouse at actual retirement, if any).     

(c)  
   Beneficiary and Spousal Consent.  An Employee s beneficiary for the purposes of this Plan shall be the beneficiary designated by him under the GE Pension Plan, except
in those instances where a separate beneficiary designation is in effect under this Plan. The provisions of the GE Pension Plan with respect to the designation or selection of a beneficiary shall apply to the designation or selection of a
beneficiary under this Plan. For purposes of clarity, the requirement in the GE Pension Plan for a Spouse s Consent to the designation or selection of a beneficiary, or the election of alternative distribution forms hereunder, shall apply under
this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits, any elections governing beneficiaries made in accordance with Section VII(b) of this Plan, as restated July 1, 1991, or subsequent actions of the Company
related thereto, shall continue to apply. No such elections, however, shall direct a different time or form of payment of Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits from the time and form of payment prescribed under this Plan, nor shall any Employee who did
not make such an election before this restatement be permitted to submit such an election.         

(d)  
  With respect to Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits, any provision of this Section X or other provision of this Plan that refers to the time or form of benefits under the GE Pension
Plan shall be deemed to be a reference to the terms of the GE Pension Plan in effect on December 31, 2008.         Section XI.
       Administration        

(a)  
    This Plan shall be administered by the Pension Board, which shall have authority to make, amend, interpret and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for
the      
         16   

administration of this Plan and decide or resolve in its sole and absolute discretion any and all questions or claims, including interpretations of this Plan, as may arise in connection with this
Plan.          

(b)  
  In the administration of this Plan, the Pension Board may, from time to time, employ agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit and may from time to
time consult with counsel who may also serve as counsel to the Company.         

(c)  
  The decision or action of the Pension Board in respect of any question arising out of or in connection with the administration, interpretation and application of this Plan and
the rules and regulations hereunder shall be final and conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan or making any claim hereunder.         Section XII.        Termination, Suspension or Amendment    
  The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, terminate, suspend or amend this Plan at any time or from time to time, in whole or in part. However, no such
termination, suspension or amendment shall adversely affect (a) the benefits of any Employee who retired under the Plan prior to the date of such termination, suspension or amendment or (b) the right of any then current Employee to receive
upon retirement, or of his or her Surviving Spouse or beneficiary to receive upon such Employee s death, the amount as a Supplementary Pension or death benefit, as the case may be, to which such person would have been entitled under this Plan
computed to the date of such termination, suspension or amendment, taking into account the Employee s Pension Benefit Service and Average Annual Compensation calculated as of the date of such termination, suspension or amendment. Any amendment
or termination shall comply with the restrictions of Section 409A of the Code to the extent applicable. No amendment or termination of the Plan may accelerate a scheduled payment of Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits, nor may any amendment or
termination permit a subsequent deferral of Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits.       Section XIII.    
   Adjustments in Supplementary Pension Following Retirement        

(a)  
  Effective January 1, 1975, the amount of Supplementary Pension then payable to any Employee who retired before January 1, 1975 shall be reduced by the amount of any
increase which becomes effective January 1, 1975 in the Pension payable under the GE Pension Plan to such Employee.         

(b)  
    If the Pension payable under the GE Pension Plan to any Employee is increased following his retirement which increase becomes effective after January 1,
1975,      
         17   

the amount of the Supplementary Pension thereafter payable to such Employee under this Supplementary Pension Plan shall be determined by the Board of Directors.      

(c)  
  Effective November 1, 1977, if the benefit payable to a pensioner or Surviving Spouse under the GE Pension Plan is increased in accordance with paragraphs 25 (a),
(b) or (c) of Section XIV of that Plan, the Supplementary Pension or death benefit, if any, payable under this Plan to such pensioner or Surviving Spouse on and after November 1, 1977 shall be increased by the same percentage. Any
such increase shall not be reduced by the percentage limitations specified in Section IX.         

(d)  
  Effective May 1, 1979, if the benefit payable to a pensioner or Surviving Spouse under the GE Pension Plan is increased by a percentage in accordance with paragraphs 26 (a),
(b) or (c) of Section XIV of that Plan, or would have been increased by a percentage in accordance with such paragraphs except for the fact that such pensioner or Surviving Spouse received a lump-sum settlement under the GE Pension Plan,
the Supplementary Pension or death benefit, if any, payable under this Plan to such pensioner or Surviving Spouse on and after May 1, 1979 shall be increased by the same percentage. Any such increase shall not be reduced by the percentage
limitations specified in Section IX.         

(e)  
  If the Pension benefit or Service credits under the GE Pension Plan are increased for a retired employee in accordance with paragraph 27 or 28 of Section XIV of that Plan, or in
accordance with the opportunity made available under that Plan effective January 1, 1980 to make up Employee contributions plus interest for periods during which the Employee was otherwise eligible but failed to participate because of late
enrollment or voluntary suspension, the Supplementary Pension payable to the Employee under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account. For this purpose, Section III of this Plan as amended effective July 1, 1979
shall apply. Any change in the Employee s Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding change under the GE Pension Plan.     

(f)  
  Effective February 1, 1981, if the benefit payable to a pensioner or Surviving Spouse under the GE Pension Plan is increased by a percentage in accordance with paragraphs 29
(a), (b) or (c) of Section XIV of that Plan, or would have been increased by a percentage in accordance with such paragraphs except for the fact that such pensioner or Surviving Spouse received a lump sum settlement under the GE Pension
Plan, the Supplementary Pension or death benefit, if any, payable under this Plan to such pensioner or Surviving Spouse on and after February 1, 1981 shall be increased by the same percentage. Any such increase shall not be reduced by the
percentage limitations specified in Section IX.         

(g)  
  Effective January 1, 1983, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan is increased in accordance with paragraph 30 of Section XIV of that Plan, the
Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account. Any change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding change under the GE Pension
Plan.     
         18   

(h)  
  Effective December 1, 1984, if the benefit payable to a pensioner or Surviving Spouse under the GE Pension Plan is increased by a percentage in accordance with paragraph 32
(a), (b) or (c) of Section XIV of that Plan, or would have been increased by a percentage in accordance with such paragraphs except for the fact that such pensioner or Surviving Spouse received a lump-sum settlement under the GE Pension
Plan, the Supplementary Pension or death benefit, if any, payable under this Plan to such pensioner or Surviving Spouse on and after December 1, 1984, shall be increased by the same percentage. Any such increase shall not be reduced by the
percentage limitations specified in Section IX.         

(i)  
  Effective July 1, 1985, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan is increased in accordance with paragraph 34 of Section XIV of that Plan, the
Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account. Any change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding change under the GE Pension
Plan.         

(j)  
  Effective January 1, 1988, if the benefit payable to a pensioner or Surviving Spouse under the GE Pension Plan is increased by a percentage in accordance with paragraph 35
of Section XIV of that Plan, or would have been increased by a percentage in accordance with such paragraph except for the fact that such pensioner or Surviving Spouse received a lump sum settlement under the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary
Pension or death benefit, if any, payable under this Plan to such pensioner or Surviving Spouse on and after January 1, 1988 shall be increased by the same percentage. Any such increase shall not be reduced by the percentage limitations
specified in Section IX.         

(k)  
  Effective July 1, 1988, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan or the GE Excess Benefit Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 36 of Section XIV
of the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account. Any change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding
increase under the GE Pension Plan or GE Excess Benefit Plan.         

(l)  
  Effective July 1, 1991, if the benefit payable to a pensioner or Surviving Spouse under the GE Pension Plan is increased by a percentage in accordance with paragraph 37 of
Section XIV of that Plan, or would have been increased by a percentage in accordance with such paragraph except for the fact that such pensioner or Surviving Spouse received a lump sum settlement under the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension
or death benefit, if any, payable under this Plan to such pensioner or Surviving Spouse on and after January 1, 1991 shall be increased by the same percentage. Any such increase shall not be reduced by the percentage limitations specified in
Section IX.     
         19   

(m)  
  Effective December 1, 1991, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan, the GE Excess Benefit Plan or GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and
Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 38 of Section XIV of the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account. Any
change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding increase under the GE Pension Plan, GE Excess Benefit Plan or GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan.

(n)  
  Effective December 1, 1994, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan, the GE Excess Benefit Plan or the GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option
and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 39 of Section XIV of the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account.
Any change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding increase under the GE Pension Plan, GE Excess Benefit Plan or GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan.

(o)  
  Effective November 1, 1996, if the benefit payable under the GE Pension Plan or the GE Excess Benefit Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 47, 48 or 49 of Section XIV
of the GE Pension Plan, said increase shall be disregarded for purposes of calculating the amount payable under this Plan.         

(p)  
  Effective December 1, 1997, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan, the GE Excess Benefit Plan or the GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option
and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 51 of Section XIV of the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account.
Any change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding increase under the GE Pension Plan, GE Excess Benefit Plan or GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan.

(q)  
  Effective May 1, 2000, if the benefit payable under the GE Pension Plan or the GE Excess Benefit Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 54, 55 or 56 of Section XIV of
the GE Pension Plan, said increase shall be disregarded for purposes of calculating the amount payable under this Plan.         

(r)  
    Effective December 1, 2000, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan, the GE Excess Benefit Plan or the GE Executive Special Early
Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan is increased as a      
         20   

result of paragraph 58 of Section XIV of the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account. Any
change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding increase under the GE Pension Plan, GE Excess Benefit Plan or GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan.

(s)  
  Effective December 1, 2003, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan, the GE Excess Benefit Plan or the GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option
and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 67 of Section XIV of the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account.
Any change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding increase under the GE Pension Plan, GE Excess Benefit Plan or GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan.

(t)  
  Effective December 1, 2007, if the benefit payable to a pensioner under the GE Pension Plan, the GE Excess Benefit Plan or the GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option
and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan is increased as a result of paragraph 70 of Section XIV of the GE Pension Plan, the Supplementary Pension payable to the pensioner under this Plan shall be recalculated to take any such increase into account.
Any change in the Supplementary Pension shall take effect on the same date as the corresponding increase under the GE Pension Plan, GE Excess Benefit Plan or GE Executive Special Early Retirement Option and Plant Closing Retirement Option Plan.
        Section XIV    
   General Conditions        

(a)  
    No interest of an Employee, retired employee (whether retired before or after July 1, 1973), Surviving Spouse or beneficiary under this Plan and no benefit
payable hereunder shall be assigned as security for a loan, and any such purported assignment shall be null, void and of no effect, nor shall any such interest or any such benefit be subject in any manner, either voluntarily or involuntarily, to
anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment or encumbrance by or through an Employee, retired employee, Surviving Spouse or beneficiary. If any attempt is made to alienate, pledge or charge any such interest or any such benefit for any debt,
liabilities in tort or contract, or otherwise, of any Employee, retired employee, Surviving Spouse, or beneficiary, contrary to the prohibitions of the preceding sentence, then the Pension Board in its discretion may suspend or forfeit the interests
of such person and during the period of such suspension, or in case of forfeiture, the Pension Board shall hold such interest for the benefit of, or shall make the benefit payments to which such person would otherwise be entitled (in the same time
and form) to the designated beneficiary or to some member of such      
         21   

Employee s, retired employee s, Surviving Spouse s or beneficiary s family to be selected in the discretion of the Pension Board. Similarly, in cases of misconduct, incapacity
or disability, the Pension Board, in its sole discretion, may make payments (in the same time and form) to some member of the family of any of the foregoing to be selected by it or to whomsoever it may determine is best fitted to receive or
administer such payments.          

(b)  
  In connection with an allowance granted under the GE Retirement for the Good of the Company Program, and in accordance with the terms of that program, the Company, in its
discretion, may decide to provide an Employee with a non-forfeitable interest in all or a portion of his Supplementary Pension under this Plan.         

(c)  
  No Employee and no other person shall have any legal or equitable rights or interest in this Plan that are not expressly granted in this Plan. Participation in this Plan does not
give any person any right to be retained in the Service of his employer. The right and power of the Company to dismiss or discharge any Employee is expressly reserved.     

(d)  
  Except to the extent that the same are governed by the federal law (including Section 409A of the Code), the law of the State of New York shall govern the construction and
administration of this Plan.         

(e)  
  The rights under this Plan of an Employee who leaves the Service of the Company at any time and the rights of anyone entitled to receive any payments under the Plan by reason of
the death of such Employee, shall be governed by the provisions of the Plan in effect on the date such Employee leaves the Service of the Company, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Plan; provided, however, that with respect to
Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefits:         

(1)  
  Any Employee who left the Service of the Company on or after January 1, 2005 and prior to January 1, 2009 and commenced receipt of such benefits before January 1,
2009 shall not be eligible to select the revocation feature provided in Section IX.8 of the GE Pension Plan.         

(2)  
  Any Employee who left the Service of the Company on or after January 1, 2005 and prior to January 1, 2009 and did not commence receipt of such benefits before
January 1, 2009 (or anyone entitled to receive any payments under the Plan by reason of the death of such Employee who did not commence receipt of such payments before January 1, 2009) shall have the time and form of payment of such
benefits determined under the terms contained herein.         

(f)  
    This Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code with respect to amounts accrued after December 31, 2004 and amounts that were accrued but
forfeitable on that date. In addition, if an Employee accrues benefits hereunder on or after January 1, 2005, the Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code with respect to all of such Employee s
benefits      
         22   

hereunder; provided, however, that in the case of Grandfathered Specified Employees, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code shall only apply for amounts accrued in excess of
Grandfathered Plan Benefits. The Plan shall be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with such intent.      
         23   

Part II: Executive Retirement Installment Benefits     
   (for new participants)        Section XV.
       Eligibility for Executive Retirement Installment Benefits    

(a)  
  An Employee shall be eligible to participate in this Plan under this Part II (and not Part I) if he is:     

(1)  
  an Excluded Employee under the GE Pension Plan who is assigned to the GE executive or higher career band;     

(2)  
  an Employee who is assigned to the GE executive or higher career band and whose first day of work for the Company while so assigned is on or after January 1, 2011; or

(3)  
  an Employee who is assigned to the GE executive or higher career band of (i) an Affiliate that elected to participate in the GE Savings and Security Program prior to
January 1, 2011 as part of a benefits program which provided neither employer-subsidized post-retirement medical coverage under the GE Life Disability and Medical Plan nor participation in the GE Pension Plan for all of its employees, or the
segment of its employees in which such Employee is included; or (ii) an Affiliate that elects to participate in the GE Savings and Security Program on or after January 1, 2011 as part of a benefits program which provides neither
participation in the GE Pension Plan nor designation of Retirement Contribution Participant status under the GE Savings and Security Program for all of its employees, or the segment of its employees in which such Employee is included, but in all
cases, only to the extent such Affiliate elects to participate in this Part II, and such election is accepted by the Pension Board.         

(b)  
  Notwithstanding (a), in the event liabilities and assets under the GE Pension Plan attributable to an Employee have been transferred to a plan maintained by Martin Marietta
Corporation (including successors) or to any other employer which is not an Affiliate, service performed by the Employee prior to such transfer shall be disregarded in determining (1) whether such Employee participated in this Plan on or before
December 31, 2010 and (2) whether his first day of work for the Company while assigned to the GE executive or higher career band is on or after January 1, 2011. Consistent with the foregoing, if after disregarding such service, an
Employee is deemed not to have participated in the Plan on or before December 31, 2010, and his first day of work for the Company while assigned to the GE executive or higher career band is deemed to be on or after January 1, 2011, this
Part II (and not Part I) shall apply to such Employee.     
         24   

Section XVI.        Executive Retirement Installment Benefits        

(a)  
  An Executive Retirement Installment Benefit shall be payable to an eligible Employee who Separates from Service on or after his 65   th    birthday equal to the sum of the following three amounts (if any):     

(1)  
  10% multiplied by his Benefit Service as a participating Employee while assigned to the GE executive career band multiplied by his Average Annual Compensation.

(2)  
  14% multiplied by his Benefit Service as a participating Employee while assigned to the GE senior executive career band multiplied by his Average Annual Compensation.

(3)  
  18% multiplied by his Benefit Service as a participating Employee while a GE officer multiplied by his Average Annual Compensation.     

(b)  
  A reduced Executive Retirement Installment Benefit shall be payable to an eligible Employee who Separates from Service before his
65   th    birthday, but who terminates Service with the Company on or after his
60   th    birthday, equal to:     

(1)  
  for a Separation from Service after an Employee s
60   th    birthday, the amount calculated under subsection (a), reduced by 5/12%
for each month from the day payments commence under Section XIX (Time and Form of Payment) to Normal Commencement Date; or         

(2)  
  for a Separation from Service on an Employee s
60   th    birthday (or a Separation from Service before that date in the case of an
Employee who nevertheless qualifies for an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit by remaining in Service with the Company until his 60   th    birthday), 75% of the amount calculated under subsection (a).     

(c)  
  In all cases, Executive Retirement Installment Benefits shall only take into account Compensation and Benefit Service as of Separation from Service, even if an Employee remains
in Service with the Company thereafter.         

(d)  
  An Executive Retirement Installment Benefit shall not be payable with respect to an Employee who terminates Service with the Company before his 60   th    birthday, except as specifically provided in Sections XVII (Disability Retirement),
XVIII (Special Benefit Protection) and XX (Payments Upon Death), or except as may otherwise be provided by virtue of an exercise of Company discretion under Section XIV(b) or an exercise of Company discretion in the case of an Employee with less
than 25 years of Eligibility Service who transfers to a successor employer.     
         25   

(e)  
  The terms  GE executive career band,   GE senior executive career band  and  GE officer  refer to those classifications as determined for purposes
of this Part II by the General Electric Company in its sole discretion, and not any Affiliate. Consistent with the foregoing, an Employee must be so determined to be an officer of the General Electric Company and not an Affiliate to be eligible for
the accrual rate described in paragraph (a)(3).         

(f)  
  For purposes of this Part II, an Employee who Separates from Service, shall only be treated as remaining in Service with the Company while he is on protected service in
accordance with established Company procedures.         Section XVII.    
   Disability Retirement        

(a)  
  An Executive Retirement Installment Benefit shall be payable to an eligible Employee, who prior to his 60   th    birthday:         

(1)  
  either retires on a Disability Pension under Section VII of the GE Pension Plan or, if he has not accrued a benefit under the GE Pension Plan, would qualify to so retire if he
had accrued such a benefit, but in such a case using Eligibility Service when applying the 15 years of service requirement in Section VII of the GE Pension Plan; and     

(2)  
  qualifies as disabled by receiving income replacement benefits under a Company plan for a period of not less than three months and otherwise meeting the requirements under
Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(4) and regulations and other guidance issued thereunder.         

(b)  
  The amount of an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit under subsection (a) shall equal 75% of the amount calculated under Section XVI(a), taking into account only
Benefit Service and Compensation as of Separation from Service.         Section XVIII.    
   Special Benefit Protection        

(a)  
  An Executive Retirement Installment Benefit shall be payable to a former eligible Employee who terminates Service with the Company before his 60   th    birthday and after completion of 25 or more years of Eligibility Service, and who meets
one of the following conditions:         

(1)  
  The Employee s Service is terminated because of a Plant Closing.         

(2)  
  The Employee s Service is terminated for transfer to a Successor Employer.     
         26   

(3)  
  The Employee s Service is terminated after one year on layoff with protected service.     

(b)  
  The amount of an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit under subsection (a) shall equal 75% of the amount calculated under Section XVI(a), taking into account only
Benefit Service and Compensation as of Separation from Service.         Section XIX.    
   Time and Form of Payment        

(a)  
  Executive Retirement Installment Benefits shall be paid in 10 annual installments, each of which shall equal the amount calculated under Section XVI, XVII or XVIII, as
applicable, divided by 10.         

(b)  
  The first annual installment of an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit described in subsection (a) shall be paid as of the first day of the month following the later of
(1) three completed calendar months after Separation from Service (or six completed calendar months after Separation from Service in the case of a Specified Employee), or (2) the Employee s 60   th    birthday. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of payments made under Section XVII
(Disability Retirement), the first annual installment of an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit shall be paid as of the first day of the month following six completed calendar months after Separation from Service. The remaining nine annual
installments shall be paid as of the anniversary of the date set forth above.         

(c)  
  No interest shall be earned or paid with respect to any Executive Retirement Installment Benefits, including any payments upon death under Section XX.     
   Section XX.        Payments Upon Death

(a)  
  If death occurs after installments of an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit have commenced under Section XIX(b), but before all 10 annual installments have been paid, the
remaining installments shall continue to be paid to the Employee s designated beneficiary as of the yearly anniversary specified in Section XIX(b).         

(b)  
  If an eligible Employee dies while in Service with the Company and before installments of an Executive Retirement Installment benefit have commenced under Section XIX(b), a death
benefit shall be paid to his designated beneficiary under this Section XX(b), and not any other provision of this Part, equal to:         

(1)  
  if death occurs on or after the Employees 65   th    birthday, the amount calculated under section XVI(a);     
         27   

(2)  
  if death occurs after the Employee s 60   th    birthday but before his 65   th    birthday, the
amount calculated under Section XVI(a), reduced by 5/12% for each month from the day payments commence (as described below) to what would have been the Employee s Normal Commencement Date; or     

(3)  
  if death occurs on or before the Employee s
60   th    birthday, 75% of the amount calculated under Section XVI(a).
       Death benefits under this Section XX(b) shall take into account only Benefit Service and Compensation as of death (or
Separation from Service if earlier). Such death benefits shall be paid in 10 equal annual installments (the amount determined under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) as applicable, divided by 10). The first annual installment shall be paid as of
the first day of the month following three completed calendar months after death. The remaining nine annual installments shall be paid as of the anniversary of the date in the preceding sentence.   

(c)  
  If a former eligible Employee who is not in Service with the Company dies after satisfying all requirements hereunder to become entitled to receive an Executive Retirement
Installment Benefit, but before payment of such benefit begins under Section XIX(b), a death benefit shall be paid to his designated beneficiary at the same time, in the same form (10 annual installments) and in the same amount as if the former
Employee had survived and his benefit had commenced as scheduled.         

(d)  
  The designated beneficiary is the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Employee on a beneficiary designation form properly filed by the Employee in accordance with
established administrative procedures, or if there is no such designated beneficiary, the Employee s estate. Employees may name and change beneficiaries without the consent of any person.     
   Section XXI.        Impact of Reemployment and
Other Status Changes        

(a)  
  An Executive Retirement Installment Benefit that has commenced shall not stop, and the form of payment shall not be altered, upon reemployment.     

(b)  
  If an Employee is reemployed after becoming entitled to an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit but before payment of such benefit has begun, payment shall commence and be
made as if the Employee had not been reemployed.         

(c)  
  In the case of reemployment, any post-reemployment benefit:         

(1)  
  shall be subject to the principles of this Part II as if it were a separate benefit; but     

(2)  
    shall be calculated by subtracting (i) any benefit payable for the period prior to such reemployment from (ii) any benefit payable as of the subsequent
     
         28   

Separation from Service, taking into account for purposes of this clause (ii), all Benefit Service and Compensation (including pre-reemployment Benefit Service and Compensation) as of the
subsequent Separation from Service.         Consistent with the foregoing, if a post-reemployment benefit is payable
consistent with the principles of this Part II, such benefit shall be paid at the time and in the form prescribed by Section XIX (Time and Form of Payment), and the provisions of Section XX (Payments Upon Death) shall apply separately to the
post-reemployment benefit, in both cases disregarding how any pre-reemployment benefit is being or has been paid.       

(d)  
  Principles similar to those in subsections (a) through (c) shall apply if an Employee is reemployed more than once.     

(e)  
  If an Employee ceases to be eligible to continue accruing an Executive Retirement Installment Benefit solely because he is no longer assigned to the GE executive or higher career
band, his benefit shall be calculated taking into account his Compensation as an Employee attributable to periods after he is no longer so assigned, even though he can earn Benefit Service only during periods while so assigned.
        Section XXII.    
   Definitions       The following terms have the
following meanings when used in Part II.      Benefit Service   means service as an Employee (including during a bona fide leave of absence) while
assigned to the GE executive or higher career band and while eligible to participate in either:       

(a)  
  the GE Pension Plan; or         

(b)  
  the GE Savings and Security Program as either:         

(1)  
  a Retirement Contribution Participant; or         

(2)  
  otherwise, but only in the case of an Affiliate that has made an applicable election described in Section XV(a)(3) and then only for periods after such election is effective;
       provided, however, that Benefit Service shall not include service performed before 2011 or service during any period in which an Employee
has Separated from Service, even if the Employee remains in Service with the Company.   
         29   

In addition, Benefit Service for any period in which an Employee works on a part-time schedule of less than 35 hours
per week shall be reduced in accordance with established administrative procedures based on the ratio of the Employee s part-time schedule to full-time schedule.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, Benefit Service shall also include any period of Service with the Company or an Affiliate as the Pension Board may otherwise provide by rules and regulations issued with respect to
this Plan; and any period of service with another employer as may be approved from time to time by the Chairman of the Board but only to the extent that any conditions specified in such approval have been met. Any grant of Benefit Service under the
preceding sentence may also specify which accrual rate (the rate prescribed in Section XVI(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3)) applies to such Benefit Service.   
  The Pension Board may also adopt such rules as it deems necessary for determining an Employee s Benefit Service, and for determining which accrual rate (the
rate prescribed in Section XVI(a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(3)) applies to such Benefit Service.      Company   means:   

(a)  
  Company as defined in the GE Pension Plan; and         

(b)  
  any other Affiliate that adopts this Plan on or after January 1, 2011, as approved by the Pension Board (including an Affiliate that has made an applicable election
described in Section XV(a)(3)).        Eligibility Service   means:   

(a)  
  S SP Service as defined in the GE Savings and Security Program (S SP) for (1) an Employee who is a Retirement Contribution Participant under the S SP, or
(2) an Employee of an Affiliate that has made an applicable election described in Section XV(a)(3); and         

(b)  
  Pension Qualification Service as defined in the GE Pension Plan for all other Employees.        The Pension Board may adopt such rules as it deems necessary for determining an Employee s Eligibility Service.   
  Employee   means Employee as defined in the GE Pension Plan, but substituting the term  Company  as defined in this Section XXII for the term
 Company  as used in the definition of Employee in the GE Pension Plan.      Normal Commencement Date   means the first day of the month
following three completed calendar months after an Employee s 65   th   
birthday, except that in the case of a Specified Employee whose benefit has been delayed for six completed calendar months pursuant to Section XIX(b)(1), it means the first day of the month following six completed calendar months after his 65   th    birthday.   
         30   

Section XXIII.        Effect of Certain Plan Provisions        

(a)  
  The following provisions of Part I shall not apply to Part II:     
  Section I, except the last paragraph thereof      Section II(a)
     Section II(b)      Section II(c)   
  Section II(f)      Section II(g)   
  Section II(h)      Section II(j)   
  Section II(k)      Section III(a)   
  Section III(c)      Section IV   
  Section V      Section VI   
  Section VII      Section VIII   
  Section IX      Section X   
  Section XIII       

(b)  
  The remaining provisions of Part I, or the underlying principles of such provisions, shall apply to Part II. Consistent with the foregoing and without limiting the scope of this
subsection (b):         

(1)  
  the Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, terminate, suspend or amend the Executive Retirement Installment Benefit set forth in this Part II consistent with the
principles of Section XII in the same manner that the Supplementary Pension Annuity Benefit in Part I may be so terminated, suspended or amended;         

(2)  
  the Pension Board shall have the same powers, authority and absolute discretion with respect to the Executive Retirement Installment Benefit in this Part II that it has with
respect to the Supplementary Pension Annuity Benefit in Part I consistent with the principles of Section XI; and         

(3)  
  the definition of Non-Grandfathered Plan Benefit in Section II(i) shall include all benefits earned under Part II.     
         31   

(c)  
  No provisions of Part II shall apply to Part I, except that, as described in the Introduction, the service disregard rule in Section XV(b) shall apply in determining eligibility
for Part I.     
         32   

</EX-10.(G)>

<EX-10.(Z)>
 4
 dex10z.htm
 TIME SHARING AGREEMENT DATED NOVEMBER 22, 2010

Time Sharing Agreement dated November 22, 2010 

Exhibit 10(z)        AIRCRAFT TIME SHARING AGREEMENT        THIS TIME SHARING AGREEMENT  (this
 Agreement ) is entered into on November 22, 2010 by General Electric Company ( Owner ), a New York corporation, with principal offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT and Jeffrey R. Immelt ( Lessee ).
      BACKGROUND:    
   A.   Owner is the registered owner of certain civil aircraft bearing the United States Registration Numbers and of the types set
forth on Exhibit A to this Agreement (collectively, the  Aircraft  or individually an  Aircraft ).   
   B.   Owner employs fully qualified flight crews to operate the Aircraft; and   
   C.   From time to time, Lessee may desire to lease the Aircraft from Owner for Lessee s personal travel at Lessee s
discretion on a time sharing basis as defined in Section 91.501(c)(1) of the Federal Aviation Regulations ( FAR ).   
   NOW, THEREFORE,  Owner and Lessee agree as follows:       1.         Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Owner agrees to lease the Aircraft to Lessee for Lessee s personal travel at Lessee s
discretion pursuant to the provisions of FAR Section 91.501(c)(1) and to provide a fully qualified flight crew for all operations for flights scheduled in accordance with the terms of this Agreement during the period commencing on the date of
this Agreement and terminating on the earlier of (a) the termination of this Agreement by consent of Owner and Lessee, (b) the date of Lessee s termination of employment with Owner and (c) the date of Lessee s death. Owner
shall have the right to add or substitute aircraft of similar type, quality, and equipment, and to remove aircraft from the fleet, from time to time during the term of this Agreement. Owner shall send Lessee a revised Exhibit A upon each such change
in the Aircraft.       2.         Lessee shall pay Owner for each flight conducted under this
Agreement the actual expenses of each specific flight as authorized by FAR Section 91.501(d) as in effect from time to time. On the date of this Agreement these expenses include and are limited to:   

(a)  
  fuel, oil, lubricants and other additives;         

(b)  
  travel expenses of the crew, including food, lodging and ground transportation;         

(c)  
  hangar and tie down costs away from the Aircraft s base of operation;     
         -1-

(d)  
  insurance obtained for the specific flight;         

(e)  
  landing fees, airport taxes and similar assessments;         

(f)  
  customs, foreign permit and similar fees directly related to the flight;         

(g)  
  in-flight food and beverages;         

(h)  
  passenger ground transportation;         

(i)  
  flight planning and weather contract services;         

(j)  
  an additional charge equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the expenses listed in clause (a) above.     
   3.         Owner will pay all expenses related to the operation of each Aircraft when incurred and
will provide quarterly invoices to Lessee for the expenses enumerated in Section 2 above. The Owner and Lessee acknowledge that, with the exception of the expenses for in-flight food and beverages and passenger ground transportation, the
payment of these expenses are subject to the federal excise tax imposed under Section 4261 of the Internal Revenue Code. Lessee shall reimburse Owner for the expenses authorized by FAR Section 91.501(d) plus applicable federal excise
taxes within fifteen (15) calendar days after receipt of the related invoice. Owner agrees to collect and remit to the Internal Revenue Service for the benefit of Lessee all such federal excise taxes.   
   4.         In the event that Lessee desires to use the Aircraft pursuant to this Agreement, Lessee
will so notify Owner and will provide Owner with requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules as far as possible in advance of any given flight. Requests for flight time shall be in a form, whether oral or written, mutually convenient to
and agreed upon by Owner and Lessee. In addition to proposed schedules and flight times, Lessee shall provide at least the following information for each proposed flight at some time prior to scheduled departure as required by Owner or Owner's
flight crew:       

(a)  
  departure point;         

(b)  
  destinations;         

(c)  
  date and time of flight;         

(d)  
  the identity of each anticipated passenger;         

(e)  
  the nature and extent of luggage or cargo to be carried;         

(f)  
  the date and time of a return flight, if any; and     
         -2-

(g)  
  any other information concerning the proposed flight that may be pertinent or required by Owner or Owner's flight crew.     
   5.         Owner shall have sole and exclusive authority over the scheduling of the Aircraft,
including which Aircraft is used for any particular flight.       6.         Owner shall be
solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance, and required or otherwise necessary inspections on the Aircraft and shall take such requirements into account in scheduling flights of the various Aircraft. No period of
maintenance, preventive maintenance, or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Aircraft, unless such maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and
regulations, and within the sound discretion of the pilot-in-command. The pilot-in- command shall have final and complete authority to cancel any flight for any reason or condition that in his or her judgment would compromise the safety of the
flight.       7.         Owner shall be responsible for the physical and technical operation of
the Aircraft and the safe performance of all flights and shall retain full authority and control, including exclusive operational control, and possession of the Aircraft at all times during the term of this Agreement. Owner shall employ, pay for,
and provide to Lessee a qualified flight crew for each flight undertaken under this Agreement. In accordance with applicable FAR, the qualified flight crew provided by Owner will exercise all required and/or appropriate duties and responsibilities
with respect to the safety of each flight conducted under this Agreement. The pilot-in-command shall have absolute discretion in all matters concerning the preparation of the Aircraft for flight and the flight itself, the load carried and its
distribution, the decision whether or not a flight shall be undertaken, the route to be flown, the place where landings shall be made and all other matters relating to operation of the Aircraft. Lessee specifically agrees that the flight crew shall
have final and complete authority to delay or cancel any flight for any reason or condition which, in the sole judgment of the pilot-in-command, could compromise the safety of the flight and to take any other action which, in the sole judgment of
the pilot in command, is necessitated by considerations of safety. Without limiting the generality of Section 8, no such action of the pilot-in-command shall create or support any liability for loss, injury, damage, or delay to Lessee or any
other person.       8.         The Owner and Lessee agree that Owner shall not be liable to
Lessee or any other person for loss, injury, or damage occasioned by the delay or failure to furnish the Aircraft and crew pursuant to this Agreement for any reason.       9.         The risk of loss during the period when any Aircraft is operated on behalf of Lessee under this Agreement shall remain with Owner, and Owner will retain all
rights and benefits with respect to the proceeds payable under policies of hull insurance maintained by Owner that may be payable as a result of any incident or occurrence while an Aircraft is being operated on behalf of Lessee under this Agreement.
Lessee shall be named as an additional insured on aviation liability insurance policies   
         -3-

maintained by Owner on the Aircraft with respect to flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement. The liability insurance policies on which Lessee is named an additional insured shall provide
that as to Lessee coverage shall not be invalidated or adversely affected by any action or inaction, omission or misrepresentation by Owner or any other person (other than Lessee). Any hull insurance policies maintained by Owner on any Aircraft used
by Lessee under this Agreement shall include a waiver of any rights of subrogation of the insurers against Lessee.   
   10.       A copy of this Agreement shall be carried in the Aircraft and available for review upon the request
of the FAA on all flights conducted pursuant to this Agreement.       11.       Lessee represents,
warrants and covenants to Owner that:       

(a)  
  he will use each Aircraft for and on his own account only and will not use any Aircraft for the purposes of providing transportation of passengers or cargo in air commerce for
compensation or hire;         

(b)  
  he shall refrain from incurring any mechanics or other lien in connection with inspection, preventative maintenance, maintenance or storage of the Aircraft, whether permissible
or impermissible under this Agreement, and he shall not attempt to convey, mortgage, assign, lease or any way alienate the Aircraft or create any kind of lien or security interest involving the Aircraft or do anything or take any action that might
mature into such a lien;         

(c)  
  during the term of this Agreement, he will abide by and conform to all such laws, governmental, and airport orders, rules, and regulations as shall from time to time be in effect
relating in any way to the operation and use of the Aircraft by a time-sharing lessee.     
   12.       For purposes of this Agreement, the permanent base of operation of the Aircraft shall be Stewart
Newburgh Airport, 169 Route 17K, Newburgh, NY, unless changed by Owner, in which event Owner shall notify Lessee of the new permanent base of operation of the Aircraft.       13.       Owner and Lessee agree with respect to the following indemnification provisions:       

(a)  
    Owner hereby indemnifies Lessee and agrees to hold harmless Lessee from and against any liabilities, obligations, losses (excluding loss of anticipated profits),
damages, claims, actions, suits, costs, expenses and disbursements ("Losses") imposed on, incurred by or asserted against Lessee arising out of or resulting from the ownership, lease, maintenance, repair, possession, use, operation, condition, or
other disposition or application of the      
         -4-

Aircraft. Owner s obligation to indemnify Lessee under this Section 13 shall not, however, extend to any Loss (i) resulting from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of
Lessee, (ii) to the extent such Loss is a direct result of any failure of Lessee to comply with any covenants required to be performed or observed by him under this Agreement, or (iii) to the extent such Loss is a direct result of any
breach by Lessee of any of Lessee s warranties or representations contained in this Agreement.          

(b)  
  Lessee hereby indemnifies Owner and agrees to hold harmless Owner from and against any Losses imposed on, incurred by or asserted against Owner (i) arising out of or
resulting from the willful misconduct or gross negligence of Lessee, (ii) to the extent such Loss is a direct result of any failure of Lessee to comply with any covenants required to be performed or observed by him, or (iii) to the extent
such Loss is a direct result of any breach by Lessee of any of Lessee s warranties or representations contained in this Agreement.         

(c)  
  Losses shall be determined after taking into account the available proceeds of any applicable insurance policies.     
   14.       Neither this Agreement nor any party s interest in this Agreement shall be assignable to any
other person or entity.       15.       This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of New York (excluding the conflicts of law rules thereof).       16.       This Agreement
constitutes the entire understanding between Owner and Lessee with respect to its subject matter, and there are no representations, warranties, conditions, covenants, or agreements other than as set forth expressly herein. Any changes or
modifications to this Agreement must be in writing and signed by authorized representatives of both parties. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, which shall, singly or in the aggregate, constitute a fully executed and binding agreement.
      17.       Any notice, request, or other communication to any party by the other party under this
Agreement shall be conveyed in writing and shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date (i) notice is personally delivered with receipt acknowledged, (ii) a facsimile notice is transmitted, or (iii) three (3) calendar days
after notice is mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage paid, and addressed to the party at the address set forth below. The address of a party to which notices or copies of notice are to be given may be changed from time to time
by such party by written notice to the other party.   
         -5-

General Electric Company   
     3135 Easton Turnpike         Fairfield, CT 06828         Attention: General Counsel   
     Fax: 1-203-373-3225       18.       If any one or more of the provisions of the Agreement shall be held invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall be unimpaired,
and the invalid, illegal, or unenforceable provision shall be replaced by a mutually acceptable provision, which, being valid, legal, and enforceable, comes closest to the intention of the parties underlying the invalid, illegal, or unenforceable
provision. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the parties hereby waive any provision of law, which renders any provision of this Agreement prohibited or unenforceable in any respect.   
   19.       NEITHER OWNER (NOR ITS AFFILIATES) MAKES, HAS MADE OR SHALL BE DEEMED TO MAKE OR HAVE MADE, AND OWNER
(FOR ITSELF AND ITS AFFILIATES) HEREBY DISCLAIMS, ANY WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WRITTEN OR ORAL, WITH RESPECT TO ANY AIRCRAFT TO BE USED HEREUNDER OR ANY ENGINE OR COMPONENT THEREOF INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY
WARRANTY AS TO DESIGN, COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, QUALITY OF MATERIALS OR WORKMANSHIP, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE, USE OR OPERATION, AIRWORTHINESS, SAFETY, PATENT, TRADEMARK OR COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT OR TITLE.   
   20.      With respect to the Truth in leasing requirements of FAR Section 91.23:    

(a)  
  Owner will provide a copy of this agreement to the Federal Aviation Administration, Technical Section, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma within twenty-four hours of its execution. In
addition, Owner will notify the FAA flight standards district office nearest its aircraft s home base and provide it with a copy of this agreement at least forty-eight (48) hours before takeoff of a flight operated pursuant to this
agreement informing the FAA of (i) the location of the airport of departure; (ii) the departure time; and (iii) the registration number of the aircraft involved;     

(b)  
  Truth in leasing statement under FAR Section 91.23:         

(i)  
    OWNER HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT EACH AIRCRAFT HAS BEEN INSPECTED AND MAINTAINED WITHIN THE TWELVE (12) MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT, EXCEPT
TO THE EXTENT THE      
         -6-

AIRCRAFT IS LESS THAN TWELVE (12) MONTHS OLD, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF FAR PART 91 AND ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION THEREUNDER HAVE BEEN MET.

(ii)  
  OWNER AGREES, CERTIFIES, AND KNOWINGLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT WHEN THE AIRCRAFT IS OPERATED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, OWNER SHALL BE KNOWN AS, CONSIDERED, AND SHALL IN FACT BE THE
OPERATOR OF THE AIRCRAFT.         

(iii)  
  AN EXPLANATION OF FACTORS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL AND PERTINENT FARS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE NEAREST FAA FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE, GENERAL AVIATION DISTRICT
OFFICE, OR AIR CARRIER DISTRICT OFFICE.         IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  Owner and Lessee caused the signatures of their
authorized representatives to be affixed below on the day and year first above written.       GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY    

By  
     
    /s/ John Lynch   

Name:  
     
    John Lynch  

Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources  

By  
     
    /s/ Jeffrey R. Immelt   

Name:  
     
    Jeffrey R. Immelt  

Title:  
     
    Chairman of the Board     and Chief Executive
Officer   

-7-

Exhibit A     
    Dated: November 15, 2010         

</EX-10.(Z)>

<EX-12.(A)>
 5
 dex12a.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12(a)        General Electric Company        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges    

(a)  
  Earnings before income taxes, noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and undistributed earnings of equity investees.     

(b)  
  Included interest on tax deficiencies.     

(c)  
  Considered to be representative of interest factor in rental expense.     

</EX-12.(A)>

<EX-12.(B)>
 6
 dex12b.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12(b)        General Electric Company        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and
Preferred Stock Dividends        

(a)  
  Earnings before income taxes, noncontrolling interests, discontinued operations and undistributed earnings of equity investees.     

(b)  
  Included interest on tax deficiencies.     

(c)  
  Considered to be representative of interest factor in rental expense.     

</EX-12.(B)>

<EX-21>
 7
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Exhibit 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT       General Electric s principal affiliates as of December 31, 2010, are
listed below. All other affiliates, if considered in the aggregate as a single affiliate, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.   
   AFFILIATES OF REGISTRANT INCLUDED IN REGISTRANT S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    

Percentage of voting   
   securities directly or   
   indirectly owned by   
   registrant (1)    
      
     State or Country   
   of incorporation       or
organization     

Amersham Health Norge AS   
      
  100  
      
  Norway   
 
    Amersham plc   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    Bently Nevada, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cardinal Cogen, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Caribe GE International of Puerto Rico, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Datex-Ohmeda, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Aviation Service Operation LLP   
      
  100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    GE Aviation Systems Group Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom and Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Aviation Systems North America, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Aviation U.K.   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom and Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Betz International Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    GE Caledonian Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Canada Company   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    GE Capital Global Financial Holdings, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Connecticut   
 
    GE Capital UK Finance   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Drives   Controls, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Druck Holdings Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Energy Europe B.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    GE Energy Holding SAS   
      
  100  
      
  France   
 
    GE Energy Netherlands, B.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    GE Energy Parts, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Energy Products France SNC   
      
  100  
      
  France   
 
    GE Energy Services, LLC.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Engine Services - Dallas, LP   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Engine Services Distribution, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Engine Services UNC Holding I, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Engine Services, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Europe Holdings LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Financial Assurance Holdings, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Financial Funding   
      
  100  
      
  Ireland   
 
    GE Financial Ireland   
      
  100  
      
  Ireland   
 
    GE Funding Finland Oy   
      
  100  
      
  Finland   
 
    GE Gas Turbines (Greenville) L.L.C.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Generators (Pensacola), L.L.C.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Global Sourcing LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Healthcare AS   
      
  100  
      
  Norway   
 
    GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences AB   
      
  100  
      
  Sweden   
 
    GE Heathcare BUBA   
      
  100  
      
  Belgium   
 
    GE Healthcare European Holdings SARL   
      
  100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    GE Healthcare Finland Oy   
      
  100  
      
  Finland   
 
    GE Healthcare Japan Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Japan   
 
    GE Healthcare Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Healthcare Norge AS   
      
  100  
      
  Norway    
         Page 1 of 3   

Percentage of voting   
   securities directly or   
   indirectly owned by   
   registrant (1)    
      
     State or Country   
   of incorporation       or
organization     

GE Healthcare USA Holding Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Holdings Luxembourg   Co. SARL   
      
  100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    GE Hungary Co. Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Hungary   
 
    GE Infrastructure Aviation Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Infrastructure, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Infrastructure Technology International LLC.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Inspection and Repair Services Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Intelligent Platforms, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Investments, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Nevada   
 
    GE Ionics, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    GE Jenbacher GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Austria   
 
    GE Jenbacher GmbH   Co OHG   
      
  100  
      
  Austria   
 
    GE Keppel Energy Services Pte. Ltd.   
      
  50  
      
  Singapore   
 
    GE Maintenance Services, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Medical Systems Global Technology Company, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Medical Systems Information Technologies, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Wisconsin   
 
    GE Medical Systems Societe en Commandite Simple   
      
  100  
      
  France   
 
    GE Medical Systems, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Medical Systems, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Medical Systems, Ultrasound   Primary Care Diagnostics, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Military Systems   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Money Servicing Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Osmonics, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Minnesota   
 
    GE Pacific Holding Pte. Ltd   
      
  100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    GE Pacific Pte Ltd   
      
  100  
      
  Singapore   
 
    GE Packaged Power, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Packaged Power, L.P.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Transportation Parts, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE Transportation Systems Global Signaling, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GE UK Group Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GE Water   Process Technologies Canada   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    GE Wind Energy, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GEA Parts, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GEA Products LP   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GEAE Technology, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    GEFH AS   
      
  100  
      
  Norway   
 
    GEH HOLDINGS   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    GENE Holding LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Electric (Bermuda) Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Bermuda   
 
    General Electric Canada Company   
      
  100  
      
  Canada   
 
    General Electric Capital Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Electric Capital Services, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Electric CGR Europe SAS   
      
  100  
      
  France   
 
    General Electric Europe Holdings C.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    General Electric Finance Holding GmbH   
      
  100  
      
  Germany   
 
    General Electric Financing C.V.   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    General Electric Foreign Sales Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  The Bahamas and Eleuthera Island   
 
    General Electric International (Benelux) BV   
      
  100  
      
  Netherlands   
 
    General Electric International, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Electric International Operations Company, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Electric Services (Bermuda) Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Bermuda    
         Page 2 of 3   

Percentage of voting   
   securities directly or   
   indirectly owned by   
   registrant (1)    
      
     State or Country   
   of incorporation       or
organization     

General Electric Services Luxembourg SARL   
      
  100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Granite Services, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    IDX Systems Corporation   
      
  100  
      
  Vermont   
 
    Monogram Licensing, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Monogram Licensing International, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    MRA Systems, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    NBC Universal, Inc.   
      
  88  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nuclear Fuel Holding Co., Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nuovo Pignone Holding, S.p.A.   
      
  99  
      
  Italy   
 
    Nuovo Pignone International SARL   
      
  100  
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Nuovo Pignone S.p.A.   
      
  100  
      
  Italy   
 
    OEC Medical Systems, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Panametrics Ltd.   
      
  100  
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Patent Licensing International, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    PII Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    Reuter-Stokes, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Unison Industries, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vetco Gray U.K. Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland   
 
    Viceroy, Inc.   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vital Signs Holdings, LLC   
      
  100  
      
  Delaware   
 
    Whatman Limited   
      
  100  
      
  United Kingdom   Northern Ireland        

(1)  
  With respect to certain companies, shares in names of nominees and qualifying shares in names of directors are included in above percentages.     
         Page 3 of 3   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors   
  General Electric Company:      We consent to the incorporation by
reference in the registration statements on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-50639, 33-39596, 33-39596-01, 33-29024, 333-59671, 333-72566, 333-130117, 333-155580 and 333-158067), on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-107556), and on Form S-8
(Registration Nos. 333-01953, 333-42695, 333-74415, 333-83164, 333-98877, 333-94101, 333-65781, 333-88233, 333-117855, 333-99671, 333-102111, 333-142452, 333-155587, 333-158069, 333-158071 and 333-163106) of General Electric Company of our report
dated February 25, 2011, with respect to the statement of financial position of General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related statements of earnings, changes in shareowners 
equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, which report appears in the December 31, 2010
annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric Company.      Our report refers to a change in the method of accounting for consolidation of variable
interest entities in 2010; a change in the method of accounting for impairment of debt securities, business combinations and noncontrolling interests in 2009; and, a change in the method of accounting for fair value measurements and the adoption of
the fair value option for certain financial assets and financial liabilities in 2008.      /s/ KPMG LLP   
  Stamford, Connecticut      February 25, 2011   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 9
 dex24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24       POWER OF ATTORNEY      KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned, being a director or
officer of General Electric Company, a New York corporation (the "Company"), hereby constitutes and appoints Jeffrey R. Immelt, Brackett B. Denniston III, Keith S. Sherin, Jamie S. Miller, Michael R. McAlevey, and Christoph A. Pereira, and each of
them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports for the Company's
fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or such other form as any such attorney-in-fact may deem necessary or desirable, any amendments thereto, and all additional amendments
thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them may approve, and to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the applicable
Rules and Regulations adopted or issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their
substitute or resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has
hereunto set his or her hand this 16th day of February, 2011.       

/s/ Jeffrey R. Immelt    
 
    Jeffrey R. Immelt    
 
    Chairman of the Board    
 
    (Principal Executive    
 
    Officer and Director)         

/s/ Keith S. Sherin   

/s/ Jamie S. Miller    
 
  Keith S. Sherin  

Jamie S. Miller   
 
  Vice Chairman-  

Vice President and Controller   
 
  Chief Financial Officer  

(Principal Accounting Officer)   
 
  (Principal Financial Officer)  

(Page 1 of 2)   

/s/ W. Geoffrey Beattie   

/s/ Ralph S. Larsen    
 
  W. Geoffrey Beattie  

Ralph S. Larsen   
 
  Director  

Director   

/s/ James I. Cash, Jr.   

/s/ Rochelle B. Lazarus    
 
  James I. Cash, Jr.  

Rochelle B. Lazarus   
 
  Director  

Director   

/s/ William M. Castell   

/s/ James J. Mulva    
 
  William M. Castell  

James J. Mulva   
 
  Director  

Director   

/s/ Ann M. Fudge   

/s/ Sam Nunn    
 
  Ann M. Fudge  

Sam Nunn   
 
  Director  

Director   

/s/ Susan Hockfield   

/s/ Roger S. Penske    
 
  Susan Hockfield  

Roger S. Penske   
 
  Director  

Director   

/s/ Andrea Jung   

/s/ Robert J. Swieringa    
 
  Andrea Jung  

Robert J. Swieringa   
 
  Director  

Director   

/s/ Alan G. Lafley   

/s/ James S. Tisch    
 
  Alan G. Lafley  

James S. Tisch   
 
  Director  

Director   

/s/ Robert W. Lane   

/s/ Douglas A. Warner III    
 
  Robert W. Lane  

Douglas A. Warner III   
 
  Director  

Director    
         A MAJORITY OF THE BOARD
OF DIRECTORS      (Page 2 of 2)   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 10
 dex31a.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULES 13A-14(A) OR 15D-14(A)

Certification Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31(a)        Certification Pursuant to        Rules 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as Amended       I, Jeffrey R. Immelt, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric Company;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 25, 2011       

/s/ Jeffrey R. Immelt    
 
  Jeffrey R. Immelt   
 
  Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 11
 dex31b.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULES 13A-14(A) OR 15D-14(A)

Certification Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31(b)        Certification Pursuant to        Rules 13a-14(a) or 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as Amended       I, Keith S. Sherin, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Electric Company;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of
the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and     

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 25, 2011       

/s/ Keith S. Sherin    
 
  Keith S. Sherin   
 
  Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32>
 12
 dex32.htm
 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

Exhibit 32        Certification Pursuant to        18 U.S.C. Section 1350    
  In connection with the Annual Report of General Electric Company (the  registrant ) on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2010 as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  report ), we, Jeffrey R. Immelt and Keith S. Sherin, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, of the registrant, certify, pursuant to
18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to our knowledge:       

(1)  
  The report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and     

(2)  
  The information contained in the report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the registrant.     

February 25, 2011   

/s/ Jeffrey R. Immelt    
 
  Jeffrey R. Immelt   
 
  Chief Executive Officer   

/s/ Keith S. Sherin    
 
  Keith S. Sherin   
 
  Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 ge-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 ge-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 ge-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 ge-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 ge-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 ge-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

