<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110330_10-K_edgar_data_104169_0001193125-11-083157_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>14621834</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>462724</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2722868</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1551414</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3577786</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5981706</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>119</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>21</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-083157.hdr.sgml : 20110330
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110330173104
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-083157
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20110131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110330
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110330

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WAL MART STORES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000104169
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-VARIETY STORES [5331]
		IRS NUMBER:				710415188
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06991
		FILM NUMBER:		11723162

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		702 SOUTHWEST 8TH ST
		CITY:			BENTONVILLE
		STATE:			AR
		ZIP:			72716
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5012734000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		702 SOUTHWEST 8TH STREET
		CITY:			BENTONVILLE
		STATE:			AR
		ZIP:			72716

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-11-083157.txt : 20110330

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K

for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011,      or       
 
  Commission file number 1-6991.        

WAL-MART STORES, INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)         

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (479) 273-4000    
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which
registered     
 
   Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share   
     
   New York Stock Exchange     
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None   
            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.    Yes         No           Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to submit and post such files).    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller
reporting company. See definition of  accelerated filer,  large accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer       
      
  Accelerated filer        

Non-accelerated filer       
      
  Smaller reporting company            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No           As of July 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant, based on the closing sale price of those shares on the New York
Stock Exchange reported on July 30, 2010, was $99,339,978,808. For the purposes of this disclosure only, the registrant has assumed that its directors, executive officers (as defined in Rule 3b-7 under the Exchange Act) and the beneficial
owners of 5% or more of the registrant s outstanding common stock are the affiliates of the registrant.      The registrant had 3,491,198,520
shares of common stock outstanding as of March 21, 2011.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    

Document    
      
     Parts Into Which Incorporated     
 
  Portions of the registrant s Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011 (the  Annual Report to Shareholders ) included as an
exhibit to this Form 10-K  
      
  Parts I and II   

Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held June 3, 2011 (the  Proxy Statement )  
      
  Part III        

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND INFORMATION     
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, the other reports, statements, and information that Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (which individually or together with its
subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is hereinafter referred to as  we,   Walmart  or the  Company ) has previously filed with or furnished to, or that we may subsequently file with or furnish to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and public announcements that we have previously made or may subsequently make include, may include, or may incorporate by reference certain statements that may be deemed to be
 forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, and that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. The
forward-looking statements included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and that are or may be included or incorporated by reference in those reports, statements, information and announcements address our future economic performance,
activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will or may occur in the future, including or relating, but not limited to, our expected results of operations for certain periods, including our expected sales, the expected sales of
one or more of our operating segments, or our earnings per share for certain periods, and our comparable stores sales or comparable club sales of one of our operating segments or operations in a particular country for a period, the amount, nature
and allocation of future capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure, opening of additional stores and clubs in the United States and additional units in the other countries in which we operate, the consummation of the acquisition of assets
or operations, conversion of discount stores into supercenters, relocations of existing units, remodeling of or special projects at existing units, expansion and other development trends of the retail industry, our ability to integrate newly
acquired operations into our existing operations, our business strategy, our business plans, our pricing strategy, our cost of goods, our inventory levels, the anticipated success and timing of various operating initiatives, our ability to increase
our market share, our financing strategy, expansion and growth of our business, changes in our operations, including the mix of products sold, changes in expected sales of certain categories of products, our liquidity and ability to access the
capital markets, the effect of economic developments on our customers, our operations and our results of operations, our effective annual tax rate, and other similar matters and the assumptions underlying or relating to any such statement.
Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words or phrases such as  anticipate,   believe,   could occur,   could result,   continue,   estimate,   expect, 
 forecast,   guidance,   plan,   projected,   will be,   will continue,   will change,   will decrease,   will have,   will increase  and  will
remain,  or other phrases commencing with the word  will,  or phrases that are variations of or that use such words or phrases and other similar words and phrases that denote anticipated or expected occurrences or results. Although we
believe the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K and such reports, statements, information and announcements are based or will be based on reasonable assumptions within the bounds of our knowledge of
our business, a number of factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements, whether oral or written, made by us or on our behalf. Many of these factors have previously been
identified in filings or statements made by us or on our behalf.   
         2   

Our business operations are subject to numerous risks, factors and uncertainties, domestically and
internationally, that are outside our control. Any one, or a combination, of these risks, factors and uncertainties could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable
store sales or comparable club sales for any period, our effective tax rate, business operations, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the
economy of the United States or other countries, economic instability, changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, the current economic crisis and
disruptions in the financial markets, including as a result of sovereign debt crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment levels, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer confidence,
consumer spending patterns and debt levels, inflation, deflation, the cost of the goods we sell, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, accident costs, our
casualty and other insurance costs, information security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather patterns,
catastrophic events, storm and other damage to our stores and distribution centers, weather-related closing of stores, availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations and volatility, trade
restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates, adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the resolution of tax matters, the outcome of legal
proceedings to which we are a party, interest rate fluctuations, and other capital market, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and terrorist attacks. Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our
annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty and can be affected by many factors. The foregoing list of factors that may affect our
operations and financial performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. Our business operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity
are subject to other risk factors and uncertainties, which we discuss below under the caption  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  and in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by
reference in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and appearing in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. In addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other reports filed with the SEC.
Investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based
on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other
risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. Consequently, this
cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments
expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we
expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances
except to the extent required by applicable law.   
         3   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K        FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 2011         PART I

ITEM 1.    
    BUSINESS           General
      Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Walmart,  the  Company  or  we ) operates retail stores in various formats around
the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( EDLP ) while fostering a
culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity.
Our consolidated financial statements are based on a fiscal year ending on January 31 for our U.S. and Canada operations and December 31 for all other operations. During the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011, we had net sales of
approximately $419.0 billion.      Currently, our operations comprise three reportable business segments: (1) the Walmart U.S. segment;
(2) the Walmart International segment; and (3) the Sam s Club segment.      Our Walmart U.S. segment is the largest segment of our
business, accounting for 62.1% of our fiscal 2011 net sales and operates retail stores in various formats in the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as Walmart s online retail operations, walmart.com.   
  Our Walmart International segment consists of retail operations in 14 countries. This segment generated 26.1% of our fiscal 2011 net sales. The Walmart
International segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, Sam s Clubs and online retail operations that operate outside the United States and Puerto Rico.      Our Sam s Club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico and the segment s online retail operations, samsclub.com. Sam s Club accounted for 11.8%
of our fiscal 2011 net sales.      We maintain our principal offices at 702 S.W. 8th Street, Bentonville, Arkansas 72716, USA.   
   The Development of Our Company       Although
Walmart was incorporated in Delaware in October 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a
similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders  business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In that year, the first Wal-Mart Discount City, which was a discount store, opened in Rogers, Arkansas. In 1984,
we opened our first three Sam s Clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In 1999, we opened our first Neighborhood Market.   
  In 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with Cifra
S.A. de C.V. ( Cifra ). In 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in Cifra, and in February 2000, Cifra officially changed its name to Wal-Mart de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Since 1992, our international presence has continued to expand. At
January 31, 2011, our Walmart International segment conducted retail business in 14 countries.   
         4   

Our Business Segments       The Company is engaged in the operation of retail stores located in all 50 states of the United States and Puerto Rico; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan and the United
Kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in Chile, Mexico and five countries in Central America; and its joint ventures in India and China and other controlled subsidiaries in China. The Company defines its segments as those business units whose
operating results the chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources.      The
Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company s mass merchant concept in the United States and Puerto Rico operating under the  Walmart  or  Wal-Mart  brand, as well as walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of
the Company s operations outside of the 50 United States and Puerto Rico. The Sam s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as samsclub.com.   
  The Company measures the results of its segments using each segment s operating income which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. From
time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our CODM. When we do so, the segment operating income for each
segment affected by the revision is restated for all periods presented to maintain comparability.       Walmart U.S. Segment    
  The Walmart U.S. segment had net sales of $260.3 billion, $259.9 billion and $257.0 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store, Neighborhood Market or other small format location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.   
    General.   As a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the Walmart U.S. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and Puerto Rico,
with supercenters in 48 states and Puerto Rico, discount stores in 45 states and Puerto Rico and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats in 16 states and Puerto Rico. Supercenters range in size from 80,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet,
with an average size of approximately 184,000 square feet. Our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 106,000 square feet. Neighborhood Markets and other small formats
range in size from 3,000 square feet to 62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 39,000 square feet. From time to time, Walmart U.S. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. Customers can also purchase a broad
assortment of merchandise and services online at  www.walmart.com .       WALMART U.S. SEGMENT    
   UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET   (1)      (2)            

(1)  
   Total  and  Square Feet  columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.

(2)  
  As part of an operational realignment in February 2010, the Company shifted its Puerto Rico operations from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart
U.S. and Sam s Club segments. Unit count and square feet data presented in the table above for the Walmart U.S. segment have been restated for all periods presented.     

(3)  
  Includes expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters.     

(4)  
  Total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters.     
         5   

Merchandise.   Walmart U.S. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below,
across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats.       

(1)  
  Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry
grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies;         

(2)  
  Entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, and
seasonal merchandise;         

(3)  
  Hardlines consist of stationery and books, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts;     

(4)  
  Health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services;         

(5)  
  Apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and     

(6)  
  Home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home d cor, outdoor living and horticulture.     
  The Walmart U.S. segment also offers financial services and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment.   
  Nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the Walmart U.S. segment. We also market lines of merchandise under our
private-label store brands including  Great Value,   Equate,   Ol  Roy,   Spring Valley,   Parent s Choice,   Marketside,   Oak Leaf,   Prima Della, 
 Everstart,   Faded Glory,   No Boundaries,   George,   Athletic Works,   Secret Treasures,   Puritan,   Hometrends,   Mainstays,   Ozark Trail, 
 White Stag  and  Canopy.  The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include  General Electric,   Black   Decker,   Rival,   Disney, 
 Better Homes   Gardens,   OP,   Starter,   Danskin Now  and  Just My Size.       The
percentage of net sales for the Walmart U.S. segment represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows during the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011 and 2010:   
   
      Operations.   Hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and
Neighborhood Markets are 24 hours each day. Hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week.
We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards, EBT cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through PayPal. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept
payments for products and services through our customers  health benefit plans.        Seasonal Aspects of Operations.   The
Walmart U.S. segment s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income
occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.   
    Competition.   Our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug,
variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. Our discount stores and Neighborhood Markets and other small formats compete with other supercenter-type, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and
supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. We also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites.   
         6   

Our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our
customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:   

EDLP   our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust
that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;          

Rollbacks   our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods;      

Save Even More   a strategy to meet or be below a competitor s advertised price on key value items;      

Store of the Community   a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in
which that store is located; and          

Clean, Fast and Friendly   our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment.
        We offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers
confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience.   
    Distribution.   During fiscal 2011, approximately 78% of the Walmart U.S. segment s purchases of merchandise were shipped to the
segment s stores through our distribution centers. The balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. General merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. However, we contract
with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise.      Our Walmart U.S. segment operations are
supported by 123 distribution facilities as of January 31, 2011, located strategically throughout the continental United States and Puerto Rico. Of these 123 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. Third parties owned and operated
the remaining 18 distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam s Club segment for certain items.   
   Walmart International Segment       The
Walmart International segment s net sales for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $109.2 billion, $97.4 billion and $96.1 billion, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as
much as 1% of total Company net sales.        General.   Our Walmart International segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries
operating in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, and the United Kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in Chile, Mexico and five countries in Central America; our joint ventures in India and China and our other controlled subsidiaries in
China. Walmart International operates units under approximately 60 different banners in numerous different formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, restaurants and, in Mexico, apparel stores. In addition, in
Mexico and Canada, Walmart International operates banks that focus on consumer lending. Our Walmart International segment offers a limited amount of consumer credit products, principally through Chile, Canada and Mexico.   
         7   

WALMART INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT    
   UNIT COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET   (1)      (2)            

(2)  
  As part of an operational realignment in February 2010, the Company shifted its Puerto Rico operations from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart
U.S. and Sam s Club segments. Total Walmart International unit count and retail square feet data presented in the table above excludes Puerto Rico.     

(3)  
  All prior periods have been restated to include the Wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. Also excludes 23 Seiyu
units which were closed in fiscal 2010.        Walmart International has a diverse portfolio with approximately 60
banners, represented in three major categories, retail, wholesale and other. Generally, retail centers range in size from 2,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores generally range in size from 40,000 square feet to 150,000
square feet. Other, representing restaurants in Chile, Japan and Mexico, range in size from under 1,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet. Unit counts   (1)       for Walmart International are as follows:

(1)  
  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2010 to correspond with the country s balance sheet date.
         Merchandise.   The merchandising strategy for the Walmart International segment is similar to that of our
operations in the United States in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the U.S. stores and clubs have been
developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the Walmart International segment operates. In addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality
merchandise.   
         8   

Operations.   The hours of operation for operating units in the Walmart International segment
vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. We accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards
issued by third-party providers and in Chile, Canada and Mexico, credit cards issued by our subsidiaries. Other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer.   
  Across the Walmart International segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. In
addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries.        Seasonal Aspects of
Operations.   The Walmart International segment s business is seasonal to a certain extent. Historically, the highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending January 31 and the lowest sales volume
and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending April 30. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions.
       Competition.   The Walmart International segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the
supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. We also operate local,
national and international restaurant chains in Mexico, and consumer finance operations in Canada, Chile and Mexico. Our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the Walmart International
segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which Walmart International operates. In our international units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment s
competitive position in the markets where we operate.        Distribution.   We utilize a total of 134 distribution facilities located
in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua and the United Kingdom, including two export consolidation facilities in the United States. Through these facilities, we process and
distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2011, approximately 77% of the Walmart International segment s purchases flowed through these distribution facilities.
Suppliers ship the balance of the Walmart International segment s purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. Of these 134 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 38. Third
parties owned and operated the remaining 62 distribution facilities.       Sam s Club Segment    
  The Sam s Club segment had net sales of $49.5 billion, $47.8 billion and $48.0 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. During the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total Company net sales.   
    General.   As a membership club warehouse, we operate Sam s Clubs in 48 states and Puerto Rico. Facility sizes for Sam s Clubs
generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 133,000 square feet. Sam s Club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at  www.samsclub.com .
      SAM S CLUB SEGMENT        CLUB COUNT AND RETAIL SQUARE FEET   (1)      (2)     

(1)  
   Total  and  Square Feet  columns are as of January 31 for the years shown. Retail square feet are reported in thousands.
    
         9   

(2)  
  As part of an operational realignment in February 2010, the Company shifted its Puerto Rico operations from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart
U.S. and Sam s Club segments. Unit count and square feet data presented in the table above for the Sam s Club segment have been restated for all periods presented.          Merchandise.   Sam s Club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items including  Member s Mark, 
 Bakers   Chefs  and  Sam s Club  brands in five merchandise categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format.       

(1)  
  Grocery and consumables   includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack
foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;         

(2)  
  Fuel and other categories   includes gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers;     

(3)  
  Technology, office and entertainment   includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, toys, office supplies, office furniture and
photo processing;         

(4)  
  Home and apparel   includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, seasonal items, mattresses and small
appliances; and         

(5)  
  Health and wellness   includes pharmacy and optical services, and over the counter drugs.        Sales for the Sam s Club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, were as follows during the fiscal years ended:   
   
      Operations.   Operating hours for Sam s Clubs are Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m.,
Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, all club locations offer a Gold Key program that permits Business Members and Plus Members to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday,
starting at 7:00 a.m.      Sam s Clubs are membership-only operations. A variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including
debit cards, certain types of credit cards, and private label and co-branded Discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. In addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our
members  health benefit plans.      Members include both business owners and individual consumers. Individual consumers are referred to as
Advantage Members. The annual membership fee for an individual Advantage Member is $40 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. The annual membership fee for Business
Members is $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. In addition, Business Members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $35 (plus
taxes, if applicable) each. Sam s Club Plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both Business and Advantage Club Members. The annual fee for a Primary Plus Member (Business or Advantage) is $100 (plus
taxes, if applicable). In addition, Business Plus Primary Members can add up to sixteen business associates to their business membership for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each.        Seasonal Aspects of Operations.   The Sam s Club segment s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as
different climatic conditions. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending January 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur
during the fiscal quarter ending April 30.   
         10   

Competition.   Sam s Club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount
retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Sam s Club competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club
sites. Our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry.        Distribution.   During fiscal 2011, approximately 63% of the Sam s Club segment s non-fuel purchases were shipped from the Sam s Club segment s dedicated distribution
facilities and some of the Walmart U.S. segment s distribution centers for certain items. Suppliers shipped the balance of the Sam s Club segment s purchases directly to Sam s Club locations. As of January 31, 2011, our
Sam s Club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental United States. Of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8. Third parties owned and operated the
remaining 17 distribution facilities.      The principal focus of our Sam s Club s distribution operations is on cross-docking
merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. Cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. Shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility,
sometimes less than an hour.      Sam s Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers to transport
non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. We contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs.       Other Segment Information       Certain financial information relating to our segments is
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011 (the  Annual Report to Shareholders ) under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  and in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Note 16 includes information regarding our segment and total company net sales and the total assets and
long-lived assets of continuing operations we held in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
   Employees       As of the end of fiscal 2011,
the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.1 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the United States and 0.7 million associates internationally. Similar to
other retailers, the Company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year.      The Company maintains separate Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico. Associates generally become participants following one year of employment. Through
fiscal 2011, the Profit Sharing component of the plan was entirely funded by the Company and the Company made an additional contribution to the associates  401(k) component of the plan. In addition to the Company s contributions,
associates could elect to contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan.      Beginning in fiscal 2012, the
Company will offer a safe harbor 401(k) plan to all eligible United States associates. The Company will match 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. The Company will offer the same matching contribution to all
eligible Puerto Rico associates. The matching contributions will immediately vest at 100% for each associate. Participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not more than the statutory limits. Participants age 50 or older may
defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits.      In addition, in the United States, the Company offers
a broad range of Company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or Sam s Club memberships, bonuses based on Company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the Associate Stock Purchase Program, and life
insurance. The Company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. The Company s medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses.      In our operations outside the United States, the Company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements.   
         11   

Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following chart names each of the executive officers of the Company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The business experience shown for each officer has
been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years.       

Name    
      
     Business Experience    
      
   Current     Position     Held Since   

Age   

Eduardo Castro-Wright  
      
  Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Global eCommerce and Global Sourcing. From November 2008 to July 2010, he served as Vice Chairman, responsible for Walmart U.S.
From September 2005 to November 2008, he served as Executive Vice President and President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S.  

2010  

56  

M. Susan Chambers  
      
  Executive Vice President, People Division. From December 2003 to April 2006, she served as Executive Vice President, Risk Management, Insurance and Benefits
Administration.  

2006  

53  

Brian C. Cornell  
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sam s Club. From June 2007 to April 2009, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Michaels, Inc., an arts and
crafts specialty retailer. From April 2004 to June 2007, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Safeway, Inc., a food and drug retailer.  

2009  

52  

Leslie A. Dach  
      
  Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Government Relations. From March 1997 to August 2006, he served as Vice Chairman of Daniel J. Edelman, Inc.  

2006  

56  

Michael T. Duke  
      
  President and Chief Executive Officer. From September 2005 to January 2009, he served as Vice Chairman, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., responsible for Walmart International.  

2009  

61  

Rollin L. Ford  
      
  Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. From February 2003 to April 2006, he served as Executive Vice President, Logistics and Supply Chain.  

2006  

48  

Jeffrey J. Gearhart  
      
  Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. From February 2009 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel. From December 2007 to
February 2009, he served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel. From September 2003 to December 2007, he served as Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Division.  

2010  

46  

Charles M. Holley, Jr.  
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From January 2007 to November 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Treasurer. From December 2005 to January
2007, he served as Senior Vice President, Finance.  

2010  

54  

C. Douglas McMillon  
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart International. From August 2005 to January 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Sam s Club.  

2009  

44  

William S. Simon  
      
  Executive Vice President, President and Chief Executive Officer, Walmart U.S. From March 2007 to July 2010, he served as Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Walmart
U.S. From March 2006 to March 2007, he served as Executive Vice President, Professional Services, Walmart U.S.  

2010  

51  

S. Robson Walton  
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors.  

1992  

66  

Steven P. Whaley  
      
  Senior Vice President and Controller. From December 2005 to January 2007, he served as Vice President and Controller. From September 2005 to December 2005, he served as Vice
President and Assistant Controller.  

2007  

51  
        
         12   

Our Website and Availability of SEC Reports and Other Information    
  Our corporate website is located at  www.walmartstores.com . We file with or furnish to the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on
Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. The reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the SEC are available
to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. In addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the SEC
at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is  http://www.sec.gov . Our SEC filings, our Code of Ethics for our CEO
and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at  www.walmartstores.com/investors . These documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing
or calling our Investor Relations Department, which is located at our principal offices.      A description of any substantive amendment or waiver
of Walmart s Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers will be disclosed on the Investor Relations page of our website at  www.walmartstores.com  under the Corporate Governance section. Any such description will be located
on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver.       

ITEM 1A.    
    RISK FACTORS          The risks described
below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. These risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to
all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations.       General economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance.       General economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. In the United States, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy
costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax
rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our Walmart U.S. segment and Sam s Club
segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. Higher levels of unemployment,
inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse
developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the United
States. These conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our Walmart International segment.   
         13   

Higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of
labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws
and regulations and other economic factors in the United States and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic
and international operations and our operating results. The economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the
cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale.       We may face impediments to our expansion in the United States, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial
performance.       Our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the United
States and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. Our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other store formats, and Sam s Clubs and to
convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the
construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may
affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth
opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. If we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats or Sam s Clubs or continue to convert discount stores into
supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. In addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not
receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected.       Impediments to the expansion of our Walmart
International operations could adversely affect our financial performance.       Our business strategy for our Walmart International segment
includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing Walmart International business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. In the countries
in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or Sam s Clubs, not previously operated in those markets. As in
the United States, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our Walmart International segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our
ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. In addition, access to
local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. Moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new
retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. If we do not effectively
execute our expansion plans for our Walmart International segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected.      We may be unable to
continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. Although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly
acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. Our failure to identify
appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our Walmart International segment and our future financial
performance.   
         14   

Failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could
adversely affect our financial performance.       Our ability to continue to expand our operations in the United States and abroad depends on
our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and
distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which
we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. If we are unable to locate, to attract
or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be affected adversely.   
   We face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance.    
  The retail business is highly competitive. Each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in
other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. Our Walmart U.S. segment competes with retailers operating discount,
department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Our Sam s Club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as
discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. Internationally, we compete with retailers who operate
department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. Such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including
merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. Where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under
our EDLP philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. Our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. See  Item 1. Business  above
for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments.      Although the retail industry as a whole is highly
fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. Such consolidation may result in competitors
with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. Such business combinations could result in the provision of a
wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance.       Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.    
  The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an
important factor in our financial performance. All of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find
qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the United States. Political and economic
instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers  failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to
suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In
addition, the United States  foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain
materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.   
  Our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. Concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our
suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. Any lost
confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. As such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance.
  
         15   

Our Walmart International operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial,
accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance.       We currently conduct operations in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, and the United Kingdom, as well as through joint venture
agreements in China and India and our other controlled subsidiaries in China. During fiscal 2011, our Walmart International operations generated 26.1% of our net sales. As a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the United States,
we expect that our Walmart International operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. Our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively
affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. These factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the United States and
of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs
or on future cash flows from our Walmart International operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance.      Moreover, the
economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. Other factors which may
impact our Walmart International operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the United States and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and
risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. Additional risks inherent in our Walmart International operations generally include, among others, the costs and
difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States
generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations.   
   Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.    
  The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather
conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornados, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we
operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores,
clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace
from areas in which our stores, clubs and distributions centers are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers  disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local
and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of
products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the
areas in which these types of events occur, such as the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and could adversely affect our financial performance.      In light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and
tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. Although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from
physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and
distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages.
  
         16   

We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity.       We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other
litigation. Certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing
class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. In addition, we are a defendant in  Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. , a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and
present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the United States. The class as certified in  Dukes  currently includes present and former female associates. The plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in
a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys  fees. On June 4, 2004, the U.S.
district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification, which we have appealed. On February 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued a decision affirming the district court s certification order. On February 20, 2007, the Company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the Court of Appeals. On
December 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of February 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. As a result, the Company s Petition for Rehearing En Banc was denied as moot. The Company filed a new Petition for
Rehearing En Banc on January 8, 2008. On February 13, 2009, the court of appeals issued an Order granting the Petition. On April 26, 2010, the Ninth Circuit issued a divided (6-5) opinion affirming certain portions of the district
court s ruling and reversing other portions. On August 25, 2010, the Company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Ninth Circuit s decision, which was granted by the United
States Supreme Court on December 6, 2010. The Company filed its Brief for Petitioner on January 20, 2011; the Brief for Respondents was filed on February 22, 2011; and oral argument was held on March 29, 2011. We discuss these
cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption  Item 3. Legal Proceedings  and in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are part of our Annual Report to Shareholders, which are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       If we do
not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation.       As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. In addition, our online operations at  www.walmart.com  and  www.samsclub.com  depend upon the secure
transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could
adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security
breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.   
   We rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. Disruptions in both our primary and
secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business.       Although we have independent, redundant and physically separate
primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. Our computer systems, including our back-up
systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. If our
computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption
in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which
will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management
process will mitigate this risk. If we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives.   
         17   

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our
relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share.       It is difficult to predict consistently
and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to timely identify or
effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.   

ITEM 1B.    
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS          Not
applicable.       

ITEM 2.    
    PROPERTIES          The number of discount
stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets, other small formats, and Sam s Clubs located in each state in the United States and Puerto Rico and the number of units located in each of the countries in which we operate are disclosed as of fiscal
year-end January 31, 2011 in our Annual Report to Shareholders under the caption  Fiscal 2011 Unit Count  and are incorporated herein by reference. Portions of such Annual Report to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.        United States.   As of January 31, 2011, in the United States and Puerto Rico, we owned 3,293 of
the buildings in which discount stores, supercenters, Neighborhood Markets and other small formats operated and 498 of the buildings in which our Sam s Clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico operated. Land on which our stores are located is
either owned or leased by the Company. In the United States, we lease the remaining buildings in which our stores and clubs operate from either commercial property developers pursuant to capital or operating lease arrangements or from local
governmental entities in connection with industrial revenue bond financing arrangements. All store leases provide for annual rentals, some of which escalate during the original lease term. In some cases, the leases provide for additional rent based
on sales volume. Substantially all of the Company s store and club leases have renewal options, some of which include escalation clauses causing an increase in rents.      We use independent contractors to construct our buildings.      Our 123 Walmart U.S. and 25
Sam s Club distribution centers are located strategically throughout the continental United States and Puerto Rico. Of these 148 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 113 distribution facilities, and third parties owned and operated 35
of our distribution facilities. In addition to servicing the Walmart U.S. segment, some of our Walmart distribution centers also service our Sam s Club segment for certain items.      We own office facilities in Bentonville, Arkansas that serve as our home office and lease office facilities throughout the United States for our walmart.com operations and field management.   
    Walmart International.   We operate our Walmart International segment stores and restaurants in a combination of owned and leased properties
in each country in which our Walmart International segment operates. As of the end of fiscal 2011, we owned 43 properties in Argentina, 175 properties in Brazil, 119 properties in Canada, 142 properties in Chile, 1 property in China, 78 properties
in Costa Rica, 9 properties in El Salvador, 14 properties in Guatemala, 8 properties in Honduras, 52 properties in Japan, 566 properties in Mexico, 28 properties in Nicaragua and 250 properties in the United Kingdom. The remaining operating units in
each such country are leased on terms that vary from property to property. We utilize both owned and leased properties for office facilities in each country in which we are conducting business. As of the end of fiscal 2011, our Walmart International
operations are supported by 134 distribution facilities. Of these 134 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 38. Third parties owned and operated the remaining 62 distribution facilities.   
  For further information on our distribution centers, see the caption  Distribution  provided for each of our segments under  Item 1.
Business.        

ITEM 3.    
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS           I.
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:  We discuss certain legal proceedings in Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, entitled  Legal Proceedings,  which appears in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption  Item
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  and is incorporated by reference, and refer to the discussion of important information concerning those legal proceedings, including the basis for such actions and, where known, the relief sought.
We provide the following additional information concerning those legal proceedings, including the name of the lawsuit, the court in which the lawsuit is pending, and the date on which the petition commencing the lawsuit was filed. In each
lawsuit s name, the letters  WM  refer to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
         18   

Wage-and-Hour Class Action:   Braun/Hummel v. WM , Ct. of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County, PA,
3/20/02   8/30/04; Superior Ct. of PA, Eastern Dist., Philadelphia, PA, 12/07/07.       Gender Discrimination Class Action:  
Dukes v. WM , USDC, Northern Dist. of CA, San Francisco Div., 6/19/01; 9th Circuit Ct. of Appeals, San Francisco, CA, 8/26/04; US Supreme Court, Washington DC, 8/25/10.       II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:  Item 103 of SEC Regulation S-K requires disclosure of certain environmental matters. The following matters are disclosed in accordance with that requirement:
     On November 8, 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office for the Central District
of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company s receipt, transportation, handling, identification, recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous
waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (the
 RCRA ), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney s Office contends, among other things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the
Company s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain materials as  hazardous
waste  directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The U.S. Attorney s Office in the Northern District of California subsequently joined in this investigation. The Company contends that the practice
of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with applicable laws and regulations. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this
matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.   
  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the  EPA ) approached a grocery industry group to resolve issues relating to refrigerant-handling
practices and to reduce the use of ozone-depleting refrigerants in refrigeration equipment. The Company then approached the EPA independently to address these issues, and proposed a plan for removing ozone-depleting refrigerants from certain types
of refrigeration equipment. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.   
  In January 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico, Inc. became aware that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the  USACE ) was concerned about alleged
violations of a permit issued by that agency in 2003, for the fill of 0.23 acres of a creek and its contiguous wetlands during the construction of the Wal-Mart Store in Caguas, Puerto Rico. On January 19, 2007, Wal-Mart Puerto Rico responded to
these issues in writing. On January 25, 2007, the USACE issued a formal Notice of Non-Compliance to Wal-Mart Puerto Rico regarding this matter. Wal-Mart Puerto Rico filed a formal response, implemented mitigation measures, and continues to
monitor and provide the required maintenance to the mitigation area. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition
or results of operations.      On March 28, 2008, the Company received a Notice of Violation from the Missouri Department of Natural
Resources (the  Department ) alleging various violations of Missouri hazardous waste laws and regulations in connection with the activities of a third-party contractor with whom the Company had contracted for recycling services. The
Department alleges that the Company provided certain items to the contractor for recycling that should have been managed as hazardous waste. The EPA has inspected the contractor s facilities, and both the EPA and the U.S. Attorney s Office
for the Western District of Missouri are conducting investigations. The Company has submitted a response to the Notice of Violation and is cooperating with these authorities. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter,
management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.      On
August 19, 2009, the Office of the District Attorney for Riverside County, California, notified the Company that it had instituted an investigation into whether violations of California laws regarding underground storage tanks occurred at two
Sam s Club stations. The Company and the District Attorney have resolved the matter, and the settlement was approved by the court on November 22, 2010. As part of the settlement, the Company paid $750,000 in civil penalties and
$200,000 in costs.  
         19   

In January, 2011, the Environmental Department of Porto Alegre Municipality formally notified WMS
Supermercados do Brasil Ltda of soil inspection reports indicating soil contamination due to leakage of oil from power generating equipment at nine store locations in Brazil. WMS Supermercados do Brasil Ltda is cooperating with the agency as
well as the District Attorney s Office for the State of Rio Grande do Sul and has filed a mitigation plan to address the situation. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the
outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.       

ITEM 4.    
    RESERVED       
    PART II         

ITEM 5.    
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES       
  Certain information required to be provided in this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information included under the captions  Market
price of common stock,   Listing  and  Dividends paid per share  in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information appears in the portion of the Annual Report to Shareholders that is an exhibit to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.      Our common stock is principally traded in the United States on the New York Stock Exchange. At March 21, 2011, the latest
practicable date, there were 283,633 common stock shareholders of record.      On June 3, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized a new $15.0
billion share repurchase program, which was announced on June 4, 2010. The program has no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make our share repurchases and will expire only when and if we have repurchased
$15.0 billion of our shares under the program or we earlier terminate or replace the program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status. We spent approximately $14.8 billion, $7.3 billion and $3.5 billion
for share repurchases during the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We consider several factors in determining when to execute the share repurchases, including among other things, our current cash needs, our
capacity for leverage, our cost of borrowings and the market price of our common stock. At January 31, 2011, we had $4.8 billion of remaining authorization for share repurchases under the existing program.   
  Share repurchase activity under our share repurchase program was as follows during our quarter ended January 31, 2011:   

20   

ITEM 6.    
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          The
information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption  Five-Year Financial Summary  included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.       

ITEM 7.    
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

ITEM 7A.    
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK          The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption  Market Risk  under the caption  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

ITEM 8.    
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA          The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the captions  Consolidated Statements of Income,   Consolidated Balance Sheets, 
 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity,   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
included in our Annual Report to Shareholders. Such information is included in an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       

ITEM 9.    
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE       
  None.       

ITEM 9A.    
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES       
   Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures       We maintain a system of disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information, which is required to be timely disclosed, is accumulated and communicated to
management in a timely fashion. In designing and evaluating such controls and procedures, we recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control
objectives. Our management is necessarily required to use judgment in evaluating controls and procedures. Also, we may have investments in certain unconsolidated entities. Since we do not control or manage those entities, our controls and procedures
with respect to those entities are substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.      In the
ordinary course of business, we review our system of internal control over financial reporting and make changes to our systems and processes to improve such controls and increase efficiency, while ensuring that we maintain an effective internal
control environment. Changes may include such activities as implementing new, more efficient systems and automating manual processes. In the second quarter of fiscal 2010, we began implementing a new financial system in stages and to date, have
completed implementations in the United States and Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan. We plan to implement our new financial system in Mexico during the second quarter of fiscal 2012. The new financial system is a significant
component of our internal control over financial reporting. We will continue to implement our new financial system in stages, and each implementation may become a significant component of our internal control over financial reporting.   
  An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures was performed as of the end of the period
covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is accumulated and communicated to management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and are effective to provide
reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC s rules and forms.   
         21   

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of Ernst   Young LLP, the Company s
independent registered public accounting firm, on the Company s internal control over financial reporting are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, and are incorporated into this Item 9A by reference. Portions of our Annual Report
to Shareholders are included as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.       Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
      There has been no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fiscal quarter ended
January 31, 2011, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.    
    OTHER INFORMATION          None.
       PART III         

ITEM 10.    
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE          Information required by this item with respect to the Company s directors, certain family relationships, and compliance by the Company s directors, executive officers and certain beneficial
owners of the Company s common stock with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is incorporated by reference to such information under the captions entitled  Information About the Board  and
 Stock Ownership Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  from our Proxy Statement relating to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on June 3, 2011 (our  Proxy Statement ).   
  Please see the information concerning our executive officers contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption  Executive
Officers of the Registrant  which is included there in accordance with Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of the SEC s Regulation S-K.   
  No material changes have been made to the procedures by which shareholders of the Company may recommend nominees to our board of directors since those
procedures were disclosed in our proxy statement relating to our 2010 Annual Shareholders  Meeting as previously filed with the SEC.      The
information regarding our Audit Committee, including our audit committee financial experts, and our Codes of Ethics for senior financial officers and other associates required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information under
the captions  Information About the Board Board Committees,   Corporate Governance Audit Committee Financial Experts  and  Corporate Governance Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers 
included in our Proxy Statement.  Item 1. Business,  above contains information relating to the availability of a copy of our Code of Ethics for our CEO and Senior Financial Officers and our Statement of Ethics on our website.   

ITEM 11.    
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION          The
information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the captions  Information About the Board   Compensation of the Directors,   Executive Compensation  and under the sub-captions
 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report  that appear under the caption  Corporate Governance  included in our Proxy Statement.   

ITEM 12.    
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS       
  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the sub-captions  Holdings of Major
Shareholders  and  Holdings of Officers and Directors  that appear under the caption  Stock Ownership  and all information that appears under the caption  Equity Compensation Plan Information  included in our Proxy
Statement.   
         22   

ITEM 13.    
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE          The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption  Related-Party Transactions,  under the caption  Corporate
Governance Transaction Review Policy  and under the caption  Information About the Board Director Independence  included in our Proxy Statement.   

ITEM 14.    
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES          The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to all information under the caption  Corporate Governance Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy  and under the
caption  Company Proposals Proposal No. 2: Ratification of Independent Accountants  included in our Proxy Statement.        PART IV         

ITEM 15.    
    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES           

(a)   
  (1) and (2)  Consolidated Financial Statements          The financial statements listed in the following table, which are included in our Annual Report to Shareholders, are incorporated herein by reference to the portions of this Annual Report on Form 10-K
filed as Exhibit 13 hereto.       

Annual     Report to     Shareholders     (page)   

Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2011   

22  

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of January 31, 2011 and 2010   

23  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2011   

24  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2011   

25  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

26  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

50  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   

51  

Management s Report to Our Shareholders   

52  
           All schedules have been omitted because
the required information is not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements, including the notes thereto.   
         23   

(3)  Exhibits        The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K:       

3 (a)   
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3(a) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended
January 31, 1989 (which document may be found and reviewed in the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549, in the files therein relating to the Company, whose SEC file number is No. 1-6991), the
Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation is incorporated herein by reference to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File Number 33-13315) and the Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation is
incorporated hereby by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, dated August 11, 1999 (which document may be found and reviewed in the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549,
in the files therein relating to the Company, whose SEC file number is No. 1-6991).   

3 (b)   
      
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company are incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated September 25,
2006.   

4 (a)   
      
  Form of Indenture dated as of June 1, 1985, between the Company and Bank of New York, Trustee, (formerly Boatmen s Trust Company and Centerre Trust Company) is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-97917).   

4 (b)   
      
  Form of Indenture dated as of August 1, 1985, between the Company and Bank of New York, Trustee, (formerly Boatmen s Trust Company and Centerre Trust Company) is incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 2-99162).   

4 (c)   
      
  Form of Amended and Restated Indenture, Mortgage and Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of December 1, 1986, among the First National Bank of Boston
and James E. Mogavero, Owner Trustees, Rewal Corporation I, Estate for Years Holder, Rewal Corporation II, Remainderman, the Company and the First National Bank of Chicago and R.D. Manella, Indenture Trustees, is incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-11394).   

4 (d)   
      
  Form of Indenture dated as of July 15, 1990, between the Company and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-35710).   

4 (e)   
      
  Indenture dated as of April 1, 1991, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, as successor
trustee to The First National Bank of Chicago, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-51344).   

4 (f)   
      
  First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 9, 1992, to the Indenture dated as of April 1, 1991, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as
successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, as successor trustee to The First National Bank of Chicago, Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 33-51344).   

4 (g)   
      
  Indenture dated as of July 5, 2001, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-64740).   

4 (h)   
      
  Indenture dated as of December 11, 2002, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, NA, is incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-101847).    
         24   

4 (i)   
      
  Indenture dated as of July 19, 2005, between the Company and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to Registration
Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-126512).   

4 (j)   
      
  First Supplemental Indenture, dated December 1, 2006, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor-in-interest to J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, National Association, as Trustee, under the Indenture, dated as of July 19, 2005, between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as Trustee, is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Number 333-130569).   

10(a)   
      
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Annual Report on Form
10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

+10(b)   
      
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Management Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective February 1, 2008 is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a
part of the Company s Schedule 14A filed on April 22, 2008.   

+10(c)   
      
  The Rules of the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000, as amended effective June 4, 2010, are incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company s
Schedule 14A filed on April 19, 2010.   

*+10(d)   
      
  The ASDA Colleague Share Ownership Plan 1999, as amended June 4, 2004.   

+10(e)   
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Award and Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the
Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

+10(f)   
      
  Form of Post -Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers Who Have Executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to
Compete is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

*+10(g)   
      
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004.   

+10(h)   
      
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010, is incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Proxy Statement that is a part of the Company s Schedule 14A filed on
April 19, 2010.   

*+10(i)   
      
  Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant.   

+10(j)   
      
  Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance Share Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10(j) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

+10(k)   
      
  Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award, Notification of Award and Terms and Conditions of Award is incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10(k) to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, filed on March 30, 2010.   

*+10(l)   
      
  Amendment to Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete Agreements.   

*+10(m)   
      
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (As Amended Effective January 1, 2009).    
         25   

*+10(n)   
      
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan, Amended and Restated Effective June 4, 2010.   

+10(o)   
      
  Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and H. Lee Scott, Jr., dated November 20, 2008, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company
dated November 21, 2008.   

*+10(p)   
      
  Form of Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete with attached Schedule of Executive Officers who have executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to
Compete.   

+10(q)   
      
  Agreement between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and Thomas M. Schoewe, dated September 28, 2010, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the
Company dated September 29, 2010.   

*12       
      
  Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios.   

*13       
      
  Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2011. All information incorporated by reference in Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 7A, 8 and 9A of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K from the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011 is filed with the SEC. The balance of the information in the Annual Report to Shareholders will be furnished to the SEC in accordance with
Item 601(b) (13) of Regulation S-K.   

*21       
      
  List of the Company s Significant Subsidiaries.   

*23       
      
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

*31.1    
      
  Chief Executive Officer Section 302 Certification.   

*31.2    
      
  Chief Financial Officer Section 302 Certification.   

**32.1    
      
  Chief Executive Officer Section 906 Certification.   

**32.2    
      
  Chief Financial Officer Section 906 Certification.   

101.INS**+   
      
  XBRL Instance Document.   

101.SCH**+   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.   

101.CAL**+   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.   

101.DEF**+   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.   

101.LAB**+   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.   

101.PRE**+   
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.    

*  
  Filed herewith as an Exhibit.     

**  
  Furnished herewith as an Exhibit.     
         26   

SIGNATURES        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.       

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Michael T. Duke    

Michael T. Duke   

President and Chief Executive Officer       Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:   

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Michael T. Duke    

Michael T. Duke   

President and Chief Executive Officer and Director   

(Principal Executive Officer)   

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ S. Robson Walton    

S. Robson Walton   

Chairman of the Board and Director   

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.    

Charles M. Holley, Jr.   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Steven P. Whaley    

Steven P. Whaley   

Senior Vice President and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ Aida M. Alvarez    

Aida M. Alvarez   

Director   

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ James W. Breyer    

James W. Breyer   

Director   

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ M. Michele Burns    

M. Michele Burns   

Director   

DATE: March 30, 2011  
     
  By  
     
    /s/ James I. Cash, Jr.    

James I. Cash, Jr.   

Director       Signature Page to Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc.      Form 10-K for Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011   
         27   

Signature Page to Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc.      Form 10-K for Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2011   
         28   

<EX-10.(D)>
 2
 dex10d.htm
 THE ASDA COLLEAGUE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN 1999, AS AMENDED JUNE 4, 2004

The ASDA Colleague Share Ownership Plan 1999, as amended June 4, 2004 

EXHIBIT 10(d)        THE ASDA COLLEAGUE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN 1999        (incorporating amendments
approved by        the Board of Directors of ASDA Group Limited    
   on April 13, 2004 and approved by the Inland        Revenue under Schedule 3 to ITEPA)    

CONTENTS    

1.   
   Definitions and Interpretation          

1.1  
  In this Plan, unless the context otherwise requires:         

Board    
      
  means the board of directors of the Company or a committee appointed by such board of directors;   

Company    
      
  means ASDA Group Limited (registered in England and Wales No. 1396513);   

Grant Date    
      
  in relation to an option means the date on which the option was granted;   

Group Member    
      
  means a Participating Company or a body corporate which is (within the meaning of section 736 of the Companies Act 1985) the Company s holding company or a subsidiary of the
Company s holding company;   

ITEPA    
      
  means the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003   

Key Feature    
      
  means a provision of this Plan which is necessary to meet the requirements of Schedule 4 to ITEPA as defined in paragraph 30(4) of Schedule 4   

Material Interest    
      
  has the meaning given in paragraphs 10-14 (inclusive) of Schedule 4 to ITEPA   

N.I. Regulations    
      
  the laws, regulations and practices currently in force relating to liability for and the collection of NICs;   

New York Stock Exchange    
      
  means the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.   

NICs    
      
  National Insurance contributions;   

Option Tax Liability    
      
  in relation to a Participant, any liability of the Participant s Employer (or of any other member of the Asda Group) to account to the Inland Revenue or other tax authority for
any amount of, or representing, income tax or NICs (which shall, to the extent provided for in Rule 6 of the Plan, include secondary Class I contributions) which may arise on the exercise of or the acquisition of shares pursuant to an option under
this Plan;    
         1   

Parent Company    
      
  means Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.;   

Participant    
      
  means a person who holds an option granted under the Plan;   

Participant s Employer    
      
  such member of the Asda Group as is the Participant s employer or, if he has ceased to be employed within the Asda Group, was his employer or such other member of the Asda
Group, or other person as, under the PAYE Regulations or, as the case may be, the N.I. Regulations, or any other statutory or regulatory enactment (whether in the United Kingdom or otherwise) is obliged to account for any Option Tax
Liability;   

Participating Company    
      
  means the Company or any Subsidiary;   

Plan    
      
  means the ASDA Colleague Share Ownership Plan 1999 as herein set out but subject to any alterations or additions made under Rule 8 below;   

Schedule 4    
      
  means Schedule 4 to ITEPA as defined in paragraph 30(4) of Schedule 4;   

Subsidiary    
      
  means a body corporate which is a subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of section 736 of the Companies Act 1985 and is under the control of the Company within the meaning of
section 840 of the Taxes Act 1988;   

Taxes Act    
      
  means the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988;       and expressions not otherwise defined herein have the same meanings as they have in Schedule 4.       

1.2  
  Any reference in the Plan to any enactment includes a reference to that enactment as from time to time modified, extended or re-enacted.     

1.3  
  Words denoting the masculine gender shall include the feminine.     
         2   

2.   
   Eligibility          

2.1  
  Subject to sub-rule 2.3 below, a person is eligible to be granted an option under the Plan if he is a qualifying employee of a Participating Company.

2.2  
  For the purposes of sub-rule 2.1 above a   qualifying employee   is an employee of a Participating Company (other than one who is a director of a
Participating Company) who has been continuously employed by a Participating Company for a period of at least 6 months (or such lesser period as the Board may determine) ending on the Grant Date.     

2.3  
  A person is not eligible to be granted an option under the Plan at any time when he is not eligible to participate in the Plan by virtue of having a Material Interest.

3.   
   Grant of Options          

3.1  
  Subject to Rule 4 below, the Board may grant or procure the grant to any person who is eligible to be granted an option under the plan an option to acquire shares in
the Parent Company which satisfy the requirements of paragraphs 15 to 20 (inclusive) of Schedule 4  (fully paid up, unrestricted, ordinary share capital) . All options will be granted by deed.     

3.2  
  The price at which shares may be acquired by the exercise of options granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Board before the grant thereof.

3.3  
  The price at which shares may be so acquired shall not be less than:         

(A)  
  if shares of the same class as those shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange the closing sales price for a share of that class (as published in the Wall Street
Journal) on the last dealing day immediately preceding the date on which the options were granted (or such other dealing days as may be agreed with the Inland Revenue); and     

(B)  
  if paragraph (a) above cannot apply, the market value (within the meaning of Part VIII of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992) of shares of that class,
as agreed in advance for the purposes of the Plan with the Shares Valuation Division of the Inland Revenue, on the Grant Date (or such other day as may be agreed with the Inland Revenue).     

3.4  
  Subject to Rule 5.4 below, an option granted under the Plan to any person shall not be capable of being transferred by him and shall lapse forthwith if it is so
transferred or if he is adjudged bankrupt.         

4.   
   Individual Limit          

4.1  
  No person shall be granted options under the Plan which would, at the time they are granted, cause the aggregate market value of the shares which he may acquire in
pursuance of options granted to him under the Plan or under any other share option scheme, not being a savings-related share option scheme, approved under Schedule 4 and established by the company or by any associated company of the Company (and not
exercised) to exceed or further exceed the lesser of:         
 
         3   

(B)  
  if there was relevant employment income for the preceding year of assessment, four times the amount of the employment income for the current or preceding year of
assessment (whichever of those years gives the greater amount); or         

(C)  
  if there was no relevant employment income for the preceding year of assessment, four times the amount of the relevant employment income for the period of 12 months
beginning with the first day during the current year of assessment in respect of which there is relevant employment income;        and for this purpose the relevant employment income is such of the employment income of the office or employment by virtue of which the person is eligible to participate in the Plan and of any other
office or employment held by him with a company which is a Participating Company as is liable to be paid under deduction of tax pursuant to the PAYE regulations made under section 684 of ITEPA, after deducting from them amounts included by virtue of
Chapter 10 of Part 3 thereof  (benefits in kind) .       

4.2  
  For the purposes of this Rule, the market value of the shares in relation to which an option was granted:     

(A)  
  in the case of an option granted under the Plan, shall be taken to be equal to their market value or average market value on the day or days by reference to which the
price at which shares may be acquired by the exercise thereof was determined in accordance with Rule 3.3 above; and         

(B)  
  in the case of an option granted under any other approved scheme, shall be calculated as at the time when it was granted or, in a case where an agreement relating to
the shares has been made under paragraph 22 of Schedule 4, such earlier time or times as may be provided in the agreement.         

4.3  
  Any option granted under the Plan shall be limited and take effect so that the above limit is complied with.     

4A    
   Overall Limit          

4A.1  
  The number of shares of the Parent Company which may be acquired pursuant to options granted under the Plan on or after June 5, 2004 shall not exceed
10 million shares  PROVIDED THAT  this limit may be reviewed or increased from time to time with the approval of the shareholders of the Parent Company in general meeting.     

5.   
   Exercise of Options          

5.1  
  The exercise of any option granted under the Plan shall be effected in such form and manner as the Board may from time to time prescribe.     
         4   

5.2  
  In this Rule and in Rule 7 below, in relation to an option.         

(A)  
    the exercise period   means the period of two months immediately following the expiration of the relevant number of complete years beginning on the
Grant Date (or such other period as the Board may have determined before the grant of the option); and         

(B)  
    the relevant fraction   means the number of complete years in the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending immediately before the day on which the
option first becomes exercisable divided by the relevant number (or such other fraction as the Board may have determined before the grant of the option);        and in this sub-rule   the relevant number   means such number as the Board shall have determined for this purpose before the grant of the option.   

5.3  
  Subject to sub-rules 5.4 and 5.5 below and to Rule 7 below, an option granted under the Plan may be exercised only during the exercise period.     

5.4  
  If any Participant dies before the end of the exercise period, then:         

(A)  
  any option granted to him under the Plan may, subject to sub-rule 5.6 below, be exercised by his personal representatives within 12 months after the date of his death,
and to the extent that it is not exercised within that period shall (notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan) lapse on the expiration thereof;         

(B)  
  if the option shall not have become exercisable before his death by virtue of some other provision hereof, the number of shares in respect of which it may be exercised
may not exceed the relevant fraction of the number of shares in respect of which it was granted.         

5.5  
  Where any Participant ceases to be an employee of a Group Member before the beginning of the exercise period by reason of:     

(i)  
  retirement on or after reaching age 60 or any other age which may be specified in the Participant s contract of employment; or     

(ii)  
  retirement through injury or disability; or         

(iii)  
  retirement through ill-health or incapacity.         

(A)  
  any option granted to him under the Plan may be exercised within the period which shall expire three months after his so ceasing, and to the extent that it is not
exercised within that period shall, subject to sub-rule 5.4 above if he dies during that period, lapse on the expiration thereof;         

(B)  
  the number of the shares in respect of which the option may be so exercised may not exceed the relevant fraction of the number of shares in respect of which it was
granted.     
         5   

Subject to Rule 5.4 above, where an option is exercised within 3 years of its Grant Date the
provisions of Rule 6 of the Plan shall apply unless the exercise falls within (i) or (ii) above.       

5.6  
  If any Participant ceases to be an employee of a Group Member otherwise than by reason of death or as mentioned in sub-rule 5.5 above, any option granted to him under
the Plan which shall have become exercisable by virtue of any provision hereof may be exercised in accordance with that provision, and any other option so granted to him shall immediately lapse.     

5.7  
  A Participant shall not be treated for the purposes of this Rule as ceasing to be an employee of a Group Member until such time as he is no longer an employee of any
Group Member, and a female Participant who ceases to be such an employee by reason of pregnancy or confinement and who exercises her right to return to work under the Employment Rights Act 1996 shall be treated for those purposes as not having
ceased to be such an employee.         

5.8  
  A Participant shall not be eligible to exercise an option under the Plan at any time when he is not eligible to participate in the Plan by virtue of having a Material
Interest.         

5.9  
  Within 30 days after an option under the Plan has been exercised by any person, the Board on behalf of the Company shall procure that the appropriate number of shares
in respect of which the option has been exercised shall be either issued and allotted or transferred to the Participant (or his nominee), subject to obtaining such consents or approvals as may be required by any competent authority under regulations
or enactments for the time being in force.         

5.10  
  Shares issued pursuant to the Plan shall rank pari passu in all respects with shares of common stock of the Parent Company then in issue, save as regards any rights
attaching to such shares by reference to a record date prior to the date on which they are issued and allotted.         

5.11  
  The Company shall apply or procure that an application is made to the New York Stock Exchange for the admission to listing of all shares issued pursuant to the exercise
of any option provided that its ordinary shares are then listed on the New York Stock Exchange.         

6.   
   PAYE and NICs          

6.1  
  If the Participant s Employer requires, it is a condition of exercise of the option that the Participant shall indemnify the Participant s Employer against
any liability of any such person to account for any Option Tax Liability in relation to this Plan. The Participant shall be required to enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Company to ensure that the Option Tax Liability will be recovered
from the Participant.         

6.2  
  If an Option Tax Liability arises on the exercise of an option under the Plan then unless:-     
         6   

(A)  
  the Participant indicates in the exercise form or in such other manner as the Company may specify that he will make a payment to (or as directed on behalf of) the
Participant s Employer of an amount equal to the Option Tax Liability; and         

(B)  
  within 14 days of being notified by or on behalf of the Company of the amount of the Option Tax Liability, he makes such payment     
  the Company may make arrangements to sell sufficient shares (at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of sale) on the
Participant s behalf and arrange payment to the Participant s Employer out of the net proceeds of sale (after deduction of all fees, commissions and expenses incurred in relation to such sale) of an amount equal to the Option Tax Liability
and/or the Participant s Employer may withhold the required amount from the Participant s salary, to ensure the Option Tax Liability is reimbursed in full.       

6.3  
  If so specified at the time of grant, it is a condition of exercise of an option that the Participant shall agree with and undertake to the Company and the
Participant s Employer that:         

(A)  
  the Participant s Employer may recover from the Participant as mentioned in clause 6.2 above the whole or any part of any secondary Class I NICs payable in
respect of any gain on the exercise of an option; and         

(B)  
  if required (at any time before the option is first exercised) the Participant shall join with the Participant s Employer in making an election (in such terms and
such form and subject to such Inland Revenue approval as provided in paragraph 3B of Schedule 1 to the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992) for the transfer to the Participant of the whole, or such part as the Company may determine
of any liability of the Participant s Employer to National Insurance contributions on any gain on the exercise of or acquisition of shares pursuant to an option.     

6.4  
  The provisions of Rules 6.1 and 6.3 shall only apply in relation to options granted after April 13, 2004, the date on which this Plan was amended to include the
provisions of that Rule.         

7.   
   Takeover, Reconstruction and Winding-up          

7.1  
  Sub-rule (2) below applies if, before the beginning of the exercise period,     

(A)  
  any person obtains control of the Parent Company (within the meaning of section 840 of the Taxes Act 1988) as a result of making a general offer to acquire shares in
the Company, or having obtained such control makes such an offer,         

(B)  
  the Parent Company passes a resolution for voluntary winding up, or         

(C)  
  an order is made for the compulsory winding up of the Parent Company;     
         7   

and for the purposes of paragraph (A) above a person shall be deemed to have obtained
control of the Parent Company if he and others acting in concert with him have together obtained control of it.       

7.2  
  Where this sub-rule applies -         

(A)  
  any option granted under the Plan may, subject to Rule 5.6 above, be exercised within one month of the event in question (or, if more than one such event occurs, the
earliest such event), and to the extent that it is not exercised within that period shall, subject to Rule 5.4 above if he dies during that period, lapse on the expiration thereof;     

(B)  
  the number of the shares in respect of which the option may be so exercised may not exceed the relevant fraction of the number of shares in respect of which it was
granted.         

7.3  
  If any company (  the acquiring company  ) obtains control of the Parent Company as a result of making -     

(i)  
  a general offer to acquire the whole of the issued shares of the Parent Company which is made on a condition such that if it is satisfied the person making the offer
will have control of the Parent Company,         

(ii)  
  a general offer to acquire all the shares in the Parent Company which are of the same class as the shares which may be acquired by the exercise of options granted
tinder the Plan,        any Participant may at any time within the appropriate period (which expression shall be
construed in accordance with paragraph 26(3) of schedule 4) by agreement with the acquiring company, release any option granted under the Plan which has not lapsed (  the old option  ) in consideration of the grant to him of an option
(  the new option  ) which (for the purposes of that paragraph) is equivalent to the old option but relates to shares in a different company (whether the acquiring company itself or some other company falling within paragraphs 16(b)
or (c) of Schedule 4).       

7.4  
  The new option shall not be regarded for the purposes of sub-rule (3) above as equivalent to the old option unless the conditions set out in paragraph 16-20
(inclusive) of Schedule 4 are satisfied.         

7.5  
  Provisions of the Plan shall for this purpose be construed as if:-         

(A)  
  the new option were an option granted under the Plan at the same time as the old option; and     

(B)  
  except for the purposes of the definitions of   Group Member  ,   Participating Company   and   Subsidiary   in Rule 1.1
above and the references to   the Board   in Rule 5.2 above, the expression   the Parent Company   were defined as  a company whose shares may be acquired by the exercise of options granted under the Plan .
    
         8   

8.   
   Variation of Capital          

8.1  
  Subject to sub-rule 8.3 below, in the event of any increase or variation of the share capital of the Parent Company (whenever effected), the Board may make such
adjustments as it considers appropriate under sub-rule 8.2 below.         

8.2  
  An adjustment made under this sub-rule shall be to the following:         

(A)  
  the number of shares in respect of which any option granted under the Plan may be exercised;     

(B)  
  the price at which shares may be acquired by the exercise of any such option;     

(C)  
  where any such option has been exercised but no shares have been transferred pursuant to such exercise, the number of shares which may be so transferred and the price
at which they may be acquired;         

(D)  
  the overall limit specified in Rule 4A.1 (as from time to time renewed or increased, without approval of the shareholders of the Parent Company).

8.3  
  At a time when the Plan is approved by the Inland Revenue under Schedule 4, no such adjustment under sub-rule 8.2(A), (B) or (C) above shall be made unless
and until the Board of the Inland Revenue have confirmed that the approved status of the Plan will not be affected.         

8.4  
  Where any adjustment is made under sub-rule 8.2 above to the number of shares in respect of which an option may be exercised or which may be transferred pursuant to its
exercise, corresponding adjustments shall for the purposes of Rules 5.4(B), 5.5(B) and 7.2(B) be deemed to be made to the number of shares in respect of which the option was granted and to the number of shares (if any) in respect of which it has
been exercised.         

8.5  
  As soon as reasonably practicable after making any adjustment under sub-rule 8.2 above, the Board shall give notice in writing thereof to any Participant affected
thereby.         

9.   
   Alterations          

9.1  
  Subject to sub-rule 9.2 below, the Board may at any time alter or add to all or any of the provisions of the Plan, or the terms of any option granted under it, in any
respect (having regard to the fact that, if an alteration or addition to a Key Feature is made at a time when the Plan is approved by the Inland Revenue under Schedule 4, the approval will not thereafter have effect unless and until the Inland
Revenue has approved the alteration or addition).         

9.2  
  No alteration or addition to the disadvantage of any Participant shall be made under sub-rule 9.1 above unless:     

(A)  
  the Board shall have invited every relevant Participant to give an indication as to whether or not he approves the alteration or addition, and     

         9   

(B)  
  the alteration or addition is approved by a majority of those Participants who have given such an indication.     

9.3  
  As soon as reasonably practicable after making any alteration or addition under sub-rule 9.1 above, the Board shall give notice in writing thereof to any Participant
affected thereby and, if the Plan is then approved by the Inland Revenue under Schedule 4, to the Inland Revenue.         

10.1  
  If any Participant appoints any person to act on his behalf for the purposes of the Plan, such person may:     

(A)  
  exercise any option granted to the Participant under the Plan;         

(B)  
  make such arrangements for funding the exercise as may be appropriate (including borrowing money on reasonable terms);     

(C)  
  sell sufficient of the shares acquired by the exercise to enable the costs of exercise (including the repayment of any loan and interest thereon) to be met out of the
net proceeds of sale; and         

(D)  
  take any other action which he reasonably considers to be necessary or desirable in connection with the above.     

10.2  
  The rights and obligations of any individual under the terms of his office or employment with any Group Member shall not be affected by his participation in the Plan or
any right which he may have to participate therein, and an individual who participates therein shall waive any and all rights to compensation or damages in consequence of the termination of his office or employment for any reason whatsoever insofar
as those rights arise or may arise from his ceasing to have rights under or be entitled to exercise any option under the Plan as a result of such termination.     

10.3  
  In the event of any dispute or disagreement as to the interpretation of the Plan, or as to any question or right arising from or related to the Plan, the decision of
the Board shall be final and binding upon all persons.         

10.4  
  In the event that shares are transferred to a Participant in pursuance of any option granted under the Plan, the Participant shall, if so required by the person making
the transfer, join that person in making a claim for relief under section 165 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 in respect of the disposal made by him in effecting such transfer.     

10.5  
  Any notice or other communication under or in connection with the Plan may be given by personal delivery or by sending the same by post, in the case of a company to its
registered office, and in the case of an individual to his last known address, or, where he is an employee of a Group Member, either to his last known address or to the address of the place of business at which he performs the whole or substantially
the whole of the duties of his office or employment.     
         10   

</EX-10.(D)>

<EX-10.(G)>
 3
 dex10g.htm
 WAL-MART STORES, INC. 2004 ASSOCIATE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(g)        WAL-MART STORES, INC.        2004 ASSOCIATE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN    
   (As amended and restated effective as of February 1, 2004)    

TABLE OF CONTENTS     

- i -

- ii -

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   2004 ASSOCIATE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN        

I.   
   DEFINITIONS         1.1.
  Account   shall mean a Participant s account which holds his or her shares of Stock pursuant to the Plan.   
  1.2.   Account Administrator   shall mean the third party administrator for the Accounts as may be from time to time
appointed by the Committee.      1.3.   Account Closure   shall mean the closing of a Participant s Account by
one of the following means:      (a)   Automatic Account Closure   shall mean the closure of a Participant s
Account by the Committee (or the Account Administrator if applicable) at the time such Participant s Account balance contains no shares (or fractional shares) of Stock on or after his or her termination of employment with the Employer.
     (b)   Participant Account Closure   shall mean the closure of a Participant s Account pursuant to a
request by the Participant to have his or her Account closed and to have all Stock or proceeds from the sale thereof distributed.      1.4.   Affiliate   shall mean any entity that is more than 50% owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company.   
  1.5.   Associate   shall mean any common law employee of an Employer, but shall not include independent contractors. An
individual classified by the Employer as either an independent contractor or an individual who provides services to the Employer through another entity shall not be eligible to participate in this Plan during the period that the individual is so
classified, even if such individual is later retroactively reclassified as an Associate during all or any part of such period pursuant to applicable law or otherwise.      1.6.   Award Program   shall mean a program established by the Company or a Participating Employer that results in its Associates receiving shares of Stock as an award for job performance.
     1.7.   Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.   
  1.8.   Committee   shall mean the Stock Option Committee of the Board, or such other committee as may be appointed by the
Board.      1.9.   Company   shall mean Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation.   
  1.10.   Contribution   shall mean any of the types of contributions that may be made to a Participant s Account under
the Plan, either by the Company, a Participating Employer or a Participant as set forth in Section III.      1.11.
  Employer   shall mean the Company and its Affiliates.   

1.12.   Participant   shall mean any Associate of the Company or a
Participating Employer who satisfies the eligibility requirements in Section II and who has an Account established under the Plan, and Participant shall also include any former Associate of the Company or a Participating Employer who was a
Participant in the Plan at the time of his or her termination of employment until such time as an Account Closure occurs.   
  1.13.   Participating Employer   shall mean an Affiliate whose participation in the Plan has been approved by the
Committee. The Committee may require the Participating Employer to make corresponding contributions under the Plan in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee. The Committee, in its sole discretion, may terminate any such
Affiliate s Participating Employer status at any time and the Participants  Accounts will be treated as if such Participants had transferred employment to an Affiliate that is not a Participating Employer as described in Section 5.3
of the Plan.      1.14.   Payroll Deduction   shall mean the payroll deduction from a Participant s biweekly
or weekly regular compensation (including from vacation pay and any paid leave of absence) of an amount authorized by the Participant as a Payroll Deduction Contribution.      1.15.   Plan   shall mean the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 2004 Associate Stock Purchase Plan (formerly known as the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. 1996 Associate Stock Purchase Plan), as amended, restated
and renamed herein, or as it may be further amended from time to time.      1.16.   Plan Year   shall mean
April 1 of a calendar year to March 31 of the following calendar year, or such other period as set by the Committee.   
  1.17.   Section 16 Officers   shall mean those officers of the Company who are subject to subsection 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.      1.18.   Stock   shall mean the common stock, $.10 par value per
share, of the Company.       

II.   
   ELIGIBILITY         2.1.  In
General . All Associates (including Section 16 Officers) of the Company or a Participating Employer are eligible to participate in the Plan, subject to the following limitations:   
  (a) Associates who are restricted or prohibited from participating in the Plan under the applicable law of their state or country of
residence may not participate in the Plan, except as may be provided in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee.      (b) Associates of the Company and its affiliates who are members of a collective bargaining unit whose benefits were the subject of good faith collective bargaining are excluded from participation in the
Plan.      (c) Participation by Associates of non-U.S. Participating Employers shall only be permitted upon approval by the
Committee, which approval may be limited to groups or categories of Associates designated by the non-U.S. Participating Employer.   
         - 2 -

(d) Section 16 Officers may be restricted in their ability to acquire or sell shares of
Stock in order to comply with Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, in accordance with rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      2.2.  Leaves of Absence . Participants continue to be eligible to participate in the Plan while on a bona fide leave of absence from the Company or a Participating Employer in accordance with
applicable policies of the Company or Participating Employer, or under such other circumstances with the approval of the Committee.       

III.   
   PLAN CONTRIBUTIONS         3.1.
 Shares Available for Contributions . Subject to stockholder approval, as of February 1, 2004, 142,624,272 shares of Stock will be available for issuance under the Plan.   
  3.2.  Plan Contributions . The definitions of the types of Contributions which may be made pursuant to the Plan are as follows
(subject to the limits provided in Section 3.3 as applicable):      (a)   Award Contribution   means a
contribution under the Plan on behalf of a Participant by the Company or a Participating Employer, as applicable, made pursuant to the Award Program in the sole discretion of the Committee.   
  (b)   Matching Contribution   means a cash contribution to the Plan on behalf of a Participant by the Company or a
Participating Employer, as applicable, which is equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the Participant s Payroll Deduction (up to a maximum dollar limit).      (c)   Payroll Deduction Contribution   means a contribution to the Plan by a Participant pursuant to a valid authorization for a Payroll Deduction.   
  (d)   Voluntary Contribution   means a contribution, if and to the extent permitted by the Committee from time to time, of
shares of Stock or cash by the Participant to the Participant s Account which is not made by Payroll Deduction.      3.3.
 Maximum Limits on Contributions .      (a) Matching Contributions and  Outstanding Performance  awards under the
Award Program are subject to a maximum dollar limit for the Plan Year as set by the Committee from time to time in its discretion.      (b) During any Plan Year, the combination of Payroll Deduction Contributions and Voluntary Contributions made in cash (not Stock) by a Participant shall not exceed $125,000.   
  3.4.  Payroll Deductions .      (a) Subject to the Committee s authority to adjust the following amounts, a Participant s authorization for Payroll Deduction shall be for a minimum amount of $2.00 per biweekly pay period or
$1.00 per weekly pay period, as applicable to the Participant, and such Payroll Deduction shall be in even multiples of $.50.   
         - 3 -

(b) A Participant s request for Payroll Deduction (or a request for a revision thereto)
will become effective as soon as practicable after receipt of such request by the Company or the Participating Employer, as applicable.      (c) A Participant s Payroll Deduction authorization may be revised or terminated at any time by the Participant s request to the Company or the Participating Employer, as applicable.   
  (d) A Participant s authorization for Payroll Deduction shall remain effective until the earlier of the Participant s
(1) request to revise or terminate the Payroll Deduction authorization or (2) termination of employment with the Company or a Participating Employer, subject to Section 8 of the Plan.   
  (e) All requests to initiate, revise or terminate an authorization for Payroll Deduction as described in this Section 3.4 shall be
made in writing or in such other form acceptable to the Committee or its delegate from time to time.      3.5.  Matching
Contributions . The Company or Participating Employer, as applicable, shall make Matching Contributions as provided under the Plan and subject to the limits set forth in Section 3.3.   
  3.6.  Award Contributions . Award Contributions shall be made, in the Committee s sole discretion, by either (1) the
Company or the Participating Employer, as applicable, remitting to the Account Administrator on behalf of the Participant funds sufficient to purchase any shares or fractional shares of Stock that have been granted to such Participant under the
Award Program or (2) the Participant receiving the Award Contribution directly as a certificate for a share or shares (as applicable) of Stock.      3.7.  Voluntary Contributions . Participants may make Voluntary Contributions to the Plan subject to the terms and limitations described herein or that may be prescribed by the Committee from time to
time.      3.8.  Remittance of Contributions .      (a) The Company or a Participating Employer, as applicable, will forward the total of all Payroll Deductions for the applicable payroll period along with the corresponding Matching Contributions, a list
of Participants for whom the Contributions are being made and the amount allocable to each such Participant s Account to the Account Administrator as soon as practicable.      (b) Voluntary Contributions, whether made in cash or shares of Stock, shall be remitted to the Account Administrator directly by the Participant.   
  (c) As soon as practicable following a grant of an Award Contribution (for purposes of the  Great Job  component of the Award
Program, a  grant  shall refer to the date on which the Associate tenders his or her four Great Job buttons to the Company in exchange for a share of Stock), an Award Contribution shall be made in the Committee s sole discretion as
described in Section 3.6 of the Plan.   
         - 4 -

(d) Prior to the time a Participant s Payroll Deduction and corresponding Matching
Contribution is distributed to the Account Administrator, such amounts are considered general assets of the Company or Participating Employer (as applicable) and, as such, are subject to the claims of the Company s or Participating
Employer s (as applicable) creditors in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. In addition, no interest shall be paid on such amounts and all Participants assume the risk of fluctuations in the value or market price of Stock.   

IV.   
   ACCOUNT PURCHASES, MAINTENANCE   SALES         4.1.  Account Establishment . The Account Administrator shall establish an Account in accordance with the Plan for any Associate who becomes a Participant. Upon the Committee s (or its
delegate s) request, the Account Administrator shall establish an Account for an Associate who is to be awarded shares under an Award Program and who is not then a Participant.   
  4.2.  Share Purchases . No later than five business days after the Account Administrator receives the remittance of funds for
Contributions (including Voluntary Contributions made in cash) made to the Plan, the Account Administrator shall purchase shares of Stock from the Company, a national stock exchange or in a combination of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Committee may from time to time provide instructions to the Account Administrator with respect to the purchase of such shares of Stock but, absent such instructions, the Account Administrator shall determine the source of such Stock
purchases in its discretion.      (a) In the case of purchases from the Company of authorized but unissued or treasury shares of
Stock, the price of such shares is equal to the Volume Weighted Average Price (VWAP) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange - Composite Transactions on the relevant date of purchase; provided, however, that the Committee may, in its discretion,
designate some other methodology for determining the fair market value of such shares of Stock purchased from the Company.   
  (b) The Account Administrator s purchase of shares of Stock from a national stock exchange and the price per share shall be in
accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee from time to time.      (c) As determined in the discretion of
the Account Administrator (in accordance with any applicable rules and procedures of the Committee), funds received as Voluntary Contributions may be bundled into a group for the purpose of purchasing shares of Stock and such shares may be purchased
over a time period that is greater than one day. If such shares of Stock are purchased as part of a bundled group, a Participant s purchase price for each share of Stock shall be the average price of all shares of Stock purchased within that
group as determined by the Account Administrator.      (d) No provision of this Plan shall limit the ability of the Committee to
implement a real-time trading (or other) mechanism for the purchase or sale of shares of Stock under the Plan and, to the extent determined by the Committee, shall replace any other methodology for valuing and allocating shares of Stock purchased or
sold under the Plan.   
         - 5 -

4.3.  Share Purchases for Non-U.S. Participants . With respect to non-U.S.
Participants, the amounts (1) withheld from such a Participant s compensation pursuant to an authorization for Payroll Deduction or (2) contributed as either a Matching Contribution or an Award Contribution made directly to a
Participant s Account shall be converted from the applicable foreign currency to U.S. dollars for the purpose of purchasing shares of Stock, and such conversion shall be pursuant to the exchange rate published in  The Wall Street Journal 
on a date as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of the cash transfer from the Company or the Participating Employer, as applicable, to the Account Administrator. All such Participants assume the risk of fluctuations in the value or
market price of shares of Stock and applicable currency exchange rates. With respect to non-U.S. Participants making Voluntary Contributions in cash, such amounts must be tendered to the Account Administrator in U.S. dollars unless otherwise
determined by the Committee.      4.4.  Allocation to Accounts . The number of shares (whole and fractional shares) of Stock
shall depend upon the purchase price as described in Section 4.2 at the time such purchases are made. Purchases of Stock will be allocated by the Account Administrator based upon the applicable purchase price to each applicable
Participant s Account in proportion to the respective amount of Contributions received for each Participant s Account. Allocations of Stock will be made in full shares and in fractional interests in shares to the thousandths of a share.
     4.5.  Share Ownership . At the time shares of Stock are credited to a Participant s Account, he or she will acquire
full ownership of all such shares (as well as any fractional interests) of Stock.      (a) All shares of Stock will be registered
in the name of the Account Administrator and will remain so registered until delivery is requested by the Participant. The Participant may request from the Account Administrator that a certificate for any or all full shares of Stock be delivered to
the Participant at no cost to such Participant at any time.      (b) The Account Administrator shall cause to be delivered at no
cost to each Participant as promptly as practicable, by mail or otherwise, all notices of meetings, proxy statements and other material distributed by the Company to its stockholders. The full shares of Stock in each Participant s Account shall
be voted in accordance with the Participant s signed proxy instructions timely delivered to the Account Administrator. In the event that a Participant does not timely provide the Account Administrator with proxy voting instructions, the Account
Administrator may direct the voting of such shares of Stock held in an Account to the extent such action or direction would comply with applicable law and any applicable listing standards of a national stock exchange.   
  (c) A Participant may not assign or hypothecate any interest in the Plan; provided, however, that upon purchase of shares under the Plan,
such shares may be sold, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise dealt with as would be the case with respect to any other shares of Stock the Participant might otherwise own.   
  (d) Neither the Company nor any Participating Employer may make any deductions from amounts properly credited to a Participant s
Account. Neither the Company nor any Participating Employer shall have any security interest on the shares of Stock held in a Participant s Account. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a lender may have a security interest on the shares of Stock
held in a Participant s Account if the Participant has pledged such Stock as collateral in connection with a line of credit that may be obtained by certain Participants (other than Section 16 Officers) through the Stock Secured Line of
Credit Program.   
         - 6 -

4.6.  Account Statements . Each Participant will be sent at least an annual statement
reflecting all Account activity during the period covered by the statement.      4.7.  Risk of Loss . There is no guarantee
of the value or market price of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan. In seeking potential benefits of Stock ownership, each Participant bears the risks associated with Plan participation and ownership of Stock, including the risk of any
decrease in the value of market price of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to the Plan.      4.8.  Commission  
Maintenance Charges .      (a) No brokerage commissions are charged to Participants for purchases of Stock under the Plan,
however, brokerage commissions and other applicable fees shall be charged to the Participant for all sales of Stock from his or her Account. Such commissions and other applicable fees for sales of Stock held in a Participant s Account shall be
at the rates posted by the Account Administrator, which may be changed from time to time by the Account Administrator with approval of the Committee (or its delegate).      (b) The Company or Participating Employer, as applicable, shall pay the applicable annual maintenance fees (if any) for the Participant s Account until the earlier of (1) a Participant Account
Closure occurs or (2) the Participant incurs a termination of employment with the Company or Participating Employer, as applicable, subject to Section 5.3. Any services requested of the Account Administrator by the Participant that are not
covered by the Company s arrangement with the Account Administrator shall be paid for solely by the Participant.      (c) At
such time as the Company or Participating Employer, as applicable, ceases to pay the applicable Account maintenance fees as set forth subsection (b) above, the Participant shall become responsible for any applicable Account maintenance fees. In
this case, annual maintenance fees and other applicable charges to the Account shall be paid from time to time to the Account Administrator automatically from the proceeds of a sale of a sufficient number of shares of Stock held in the
Participant s Account until the earlier of a Participant Account Closure or an Automatic Account Closure occurring.      4.9.
 Account Sales . The Participant may instruct the Account Administrator in writing (or any other method acceptable to the Committee or its delegate) at any time to sell any portion or all of his or her full shares of Stock and the fractional
interest in any shares of Stock allocable to his or her Account, and the timing for such sale of Stock shall be in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee from time to time.   
  (a) The sale price for a share of Stock under the Plan shall be the average price of all shares of Stock sold by the Account
Administrator on the date of the Participant s sale transaction; provided, however, that the Committee reserves the right to implement a real-time trading or similar mechanism for Participants  sales of shares of Stock from their
respective Accounts under the Plan and the valuation of shares of Stock would be in accordance with any such mechanism.   
         - 7 -

(b) Upon such sale, the Account Administrator shall mail to the Participant a check (or such
method of payment as approved by the Committee or its delegate) for the proceeds, less the brokerage commission, and other normal charges such as sales fees, which are payable by the Participant.   
  (c) Such instruction to the Account Administrator, or a request for delivery of Stock certificates held in the Participant s
Account, will not affect the Participant s status as a Participant under the Plan unless an Account Closure occurs.      (d)
With respect to non-U.S. Participants, shares of Stock are sold or traded in U.S. dollars and such amounts can be converted for the purpose of remitting the proceeds to the non-U.S. Participant. If the proceeds from the sale of shares of Stock held
in the Participant s Account are converted, such conversion shall be made pursuant to the exchange rate published in  The Wall Street Journal  on the date such transaction is executed. All such Participants assume the risk of fluctuations
in the value or market price of shares of Stock and applicable currency exchange rates.       

V.   
   ACCOUNT CLOSURE   TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT         5.1.  Account Closure . A Participant who elects to discontinue Payroll Deductions under the Plan shall continue to be a Participant until the earlier of a Participant Account Closure or an Automatic
Account Closure occurring. In connection with a Participant Account Closure, the Participant must elect to have his or her Account fully distributed in either (1) Stock (except that the value of any fractional shares of Stock will be
distributed in cash less any applicable fees) or (2) cash by directing all full shares (and fractional interests) of Stock to be sold with the proceeds, less applicable brokerage commissions and other applicable fees, being distributed.
     5.2.  By Termination of Employment Other Than Due to Death of Participant . The Account of a Participant who incurs a
termination of employment (other than by reason of death) with the Company or a Participating Employer will continue to be maintained with the annual fees and any other applicable charges being paid by the Participant in accordance with
Section 4.8(c) of the Plan.      5.3.  By Transferring Employment from the Company or a Participating Employer to an
Affiliate . A Participant who transfers employment from the Company or a Participating Employer to an Affiliate who does not sponsor or participate in the Plan may continue to have his or her Account maintained at the expense of the Company while
still employed with an Affiliate until the earlier of a Participant Account Closure or an Automatic Account Closure occurring (provided that such Automatic Account Closure can only occur following termination of employment with such Affiliate). In
connection with a Participant Account Closure, the Participant must elect to have his or her Account fully distributed in either (1) Stock (except that the value of any fractional shares of Stock will be distributed in cash less any applicable
fees) or (2) cash by directing all full shares (and fractional interests) of Stock to be sold with the proceeds, less applicable brokerage commissions and other applicable fees, being distributed. Such Participant shall no longer be eligible to
make or receive Contributions to the Plan (including by Payroll Deduction or Voluntary Contribution).   
         - 8 -

5.4.  Termination Due to Death of Participant . Following a Participant s death,
the Company or Participating Employer, as applicable, shall cease making Payroll Deductions and Matching Contributions to such Participant s Account as soon as practicable. In addition, as soon as practicable following the Participant s
death, the Account Administrator will distribute the proceeds of the deceased Participant s Account less any applicable fees in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee (which may include a designation by a Participant
of a beneficiary or a joint tenant with respect to a Participant s Account) and, in the absence of applicable rules and procedures (or such designations), to the Participant s estate.   

VI.   
   AWARD PROGRAM         6.1.
 Scope of the Award Program . The Award Program is designed to provide an incentive to Associates of the Company and Participating Employers who provide exceptional customer service and job performance. Awards under the Award Program are not
intended to be given to those who satisfy, but do not exceed, expectations. The Award Program includes a  Great Job  component and an  Outstanding Performance  component.   
  6.2.  Great Job Component . Awards under the Great Job component consist of  Great Job  buttons, which can be worn by
Associates while at work.      (a) Great Job buttons are awarded by management of the Company or Participating Employers, as
applicable.      (b) Once an Associate earns four  Great Job  buttons, he or she is eligible to receive one
(1) share of Stock and such Participant will be given a new button signifying that he or she is a  Great Job Stockholder  Associate. As described in Section 3.6 of the Plan, the Committee may, in its discretion, issue the award
of Stock under the Award Program to a Participant s Account under the Plan instead of issuing the Stock certificate directly.      6.3.  Outstanding Performance Component . An  Outstanding Performance  award is an award of Stock to an Associate in recognition of the individual s consistently outstanding
performance in his or her specific job-related roles over a month, a quarter, or a year.      (a) Associates who receive
 Outstanding Performance  awards may either be issued certificates for shares of Stock or, at the discretion of the Committee, the Company (or Participating Employer) may have the Account Administrator purchase shares of Stock to be
credited to the Participant s Account as described in Section 3.6 of the Plan.      (b)  Outstanding
Performance  awards are either approved directly by the Committee or by its delegate in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee, and are subject to individual maximum dollar limitations as set by the Committee from
time to time.   
         - 9 -

VII.   
   ADMINISTRATION         7.1.
 Committee .      (a) Subject to Section 7.2, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee.   
  (b) The Committee may delegate to officers or managers of the Company or any Affiliate the authority, subject to such terms as the
Committee shall determine, to perform specified functions under the Plan. The Committee also may revoke any such delegation of authority at any time.      7.2.  Powers of the Committee . Subject to and consistent with the provisions of the Plan, the Committee has full and final authority and sole discretion as follows:   
  (a) to determine when, to whom and in what types and amounts Contributions should be made;   
  (b) to make Contributions to eligible Associates in any number, and to determine the terms and conditions applicable to each
Contribution;      (c) to determine whether any terms and conditions applicable to a Contribution have been satisfied;   
  (d) to set minimum and maximum dollar, share or other limitations on the various types of Contributions under the Plan;   
  (e) to determine whether an Affiliate should be designated as a Participating Employer and whether an Affiliate s Participating
Employer status should be terminated;      (f) to determine whether Associates of non-U.S. Participating Employers should be
eligible to participate in the Plan;      (g) to construe and interpret the Plan and to make all determinations, including factual
determinations, necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan;      (h) to make, amend, suspend, waive and rescind
rules and regulations relating to the Plan (including, but not limited to, such rules and regulations that would allow designations for beneficiaries and/or joint tenants to be made by Participants in connection with Accounts under the Plan);
     (i) to appoint such agents as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable to administer the Plan;   
  (j) to correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency, and to construe and interpret the Plan, the rules and
regulations, and award agreements or any other instrument entered into or relating to a Contribution under the Plan; and   
         - 10 -

(k) to take any other action with respect to any matters relating to the Plan for which it
is responsible and to make all other decisions and determinations as may be required under the terms of the Plan or as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.   
  Any action of the Committee with respect to the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its
Affiliates, any Associate, any person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant, and stockholders, except to the extent the Committee may subsequently modify, or take further action not consistent with, its prior action. If
not specified in the Plan, the time at which the Committee must or may make any determination shall be determined by the Committee, and any such determination may thereafter be modified by the Committee. The express grant of any specific power to
the Committee, and the taking of any action by the Committee, shall not be construed as limiting any power or authority of the Committee.       

VIII.   
    AMENDMENT   TERMINATION         8.1.  Right to Amend or Terminate . The Board, or a duly authorized committee thereof, reserves the right to amend, modify, suspend or discontinue the Plan at any time in its sole discretion without
the approval of the Company s stockholders, except that (a) any amendment or modification shall be subject to the approval of the Company s stockholders if such stockholder approval is required by any federal or state law or
regulation or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the shares of Stock may then be listed or quoted, and (b) the Board may otherwise, in its discretion, determine to submit other such amendments or
modifications to stockholders for approval.      8.2.  Limitation on Right to Amend or Terminate . Any such amendment,
modification, suspension or termination will not result in the forfeiture of (1) any funds contributed but not yet invested in the Participant s Account, (2) any shares (or fractional interests) of Stock purchased on behalf of the
Participant under the Plan, or (3) any dividends or other distributions in respect of such shares of that are declared subsequent to a Participant s Contribution but prior to the effective date of the amendment, modification, suspension or
termination of the Plan.       

IX.   
   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS      
  9.1.  Successors . All obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Contributions made hereunder shall be binding on any
successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.   
  9.2.  Severability . If any part of the Plan is declared by any court or governmental authority to be unlawful or invalid, such
unlawfulness or invalidity shall not invalidate any other part of the Plan. Any Section or part of a Section so declared to be unlawful or invalid shall, if possible, be construed in a manner which will give effect to the terms of such Section or
part of a Section to the fullest extent possible while remaining lawful and valid.      9.3.  Requirements of Law . The
granting of awards, the making of Contributions, and the delivery of shares of Stock under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges
as may be required. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan, Participants shall not be entitled to receive benefits under the Plan, and the Company (and any Affiliate) shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Stock or deliver benefits to a
Participant, if such delivery would constitute a violation by the Participant or the Company or any of its Affiliates of any applicable law or regulation.   
         - 11 -

9.4.  Securities Law Compliance .   
  (a) If the Committee deems it necessary to comply with any applicable securities law, or the requirements of any stock exchange upon
which shares of Stock may be listed, the Committee may impose any restriction on Contributions or shares of Stock acquired pursuant to Contributions under the Plan as it may deem advisable. All certificates for shares of Stock delivered under the
Plan pursuant to any Contribution shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock
exchange upon which shares of Stock are then listed, any applicable securities law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. If so requested by the
Company, the Participant shall make a written representation to the Company that he or she will not sell or offer to sell any shares of Stock unless a registration statement shall be in effect with respect to such shares of Stock under the
Securities Act of 1993, as amended, and any applicable state securities law or unless he or she shall have furnished to the Company, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, that such registration is not required.   
  (b) If the Committee determines that the nonforfeitability of, or delivery of benefits pursuant to, any Contribution would violate any
applicable provision of securities laws or the listing requirements of any national securities exchange or national market system on which are listed any of the Company s equity securities, then the Committee may postpone any such
nonforfeitability or delivery, as applicable, but the Company shall use all reasonable efforts to cause such nonforfeitability or delivery to comply with all such provisions at the earliest practicable date.   
  9.5.  No Rights as a Stockholder . No Participant shall have any rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares
of Stock which may be deliverable to the Participant s Account in connection with a Contribution (other than a Voluntary Contribution of previously-owned shares of Stock) under the Plan until such shares of Stock have been credited to his or
her Account or have been delivered to him or her.      9.6.  Nature of Payments . Matching Contributions and Award
Contributions shall be special incentive payments to the Participant and shall not be taken into account in computing the amount of salary or compensation of the Participant for purposes of determining any pension, retirement, death or other benefit
under (a) any pension, retirement, profit-sharing, bonus, insurance or other employee benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate, except as such plan shall otherwise expressly provide, or (b) any agreement between (i) the Company or
any Affiliate and (ii) the Participant, except as such agreement shall otherwise expressly provide.   
         - 12 -

9.7.  Non-Exclusivity of the Plan . Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board nor
its submission to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board to adopt such other compensatory arrangements for Associates as it may deem desirable.   
  9.8.  Military Service . The Plan shall be administered in accordance with Section 414(u) of the Internal Revenue Code and the
Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act of 1994.      9.9.  Construction . The following rules of
construction will apply to the Plan: (a) the word  or  is disjunctive but not necessarily exclusive, and (b) words in the singular include the plural, words in the plural include the singular, and words in the neuter gender
include the masculine and feminine genders and words in the masculine or feminine gender include the other neuter genders.   
  9.10.  Headings . The headings of articles and sections are included solely for convenience of reference, and if there is any
conflict between such headings and the text of this Plan, the text shall control.      9.11.  Stockholder Approval . All
Contributions made on or after the effective date of the amended and restated Plan and prior to the date the Company s stockholders approve the amended and restated Plan are expressly conditioned upon and subject to approval of the amended and
restated Plan by the Company s stockholders.      9.12.  Taxes . All Matching Contributions and Award Contributions are
subject to withholding for applicable federal, state and local income taxes and will be reported as wage income by the Company. When a Participant authorizes a Payroll Deduction of a specific amount, more than that amount will actually be withheld
from his or her compensation to cover the withholding taxes due on the Matching Contribution. The distribution of shares of Stock to Participants will not be a taxable event.      9.13.  Company-Associate Relationships . Nothing contained in this Plan shall in any way affect the rights of the Company in its relationship with any Associate or affect the Company s right to
discharge any Associate or increase or reduce any Associate s compensation.      9.14.  Governing Law . This Plan shall
be governed by the laws of the State of Arkansas, except to the extent it is governed by the federal securities laws or the choice of laws provision contained in the Company s agreement with the Account Administrator.   
         - 13 -

</EX-10.(G)>

<EX-10.(I)>
 4
 dex10i.htm
 FORM OF WAL-MART STORES, INC. STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Form of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(i)       WAL*MART STORES        Stock Incentive Plan    
   Notice of Non Qualified Stock Option Grant        

Name   
      
   Social Security Number   
      
   Department    
 
   Name   
      
   Social   
      
   Department         

Grant Date   
      
   Shares Granted   
      
   Price per Share   
      
   Expiration Date    
 
   GrantDate   
      
   SharesGranted   
      
   PricePerShare   
      
   ExpirationDate         Grant of
Option:  You have been granted an option to purchase up to the above-designated number of shares of Common Stock of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., ( Shares ) at the designated price per Share, on or before the designated Expiration Date,
subject to the terms of the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, as amended from time to time. Capitalized terms used in the notice have the same meanings as in the Plan.       Vesting.  This Option shall cumulatively vest and become exercisable as follows, except that no Options shall vest after you cease to be an associate of the company for any reason whatsoever other
than on account of death in which case all Options shall immediately vest. The unexercised portion of each vested installment may be accumulated from year to year.       
     Time to Exercise Vested Options:  You may exercise all or any portion of your vested Options only (i) while you
are employed by the Company, or (ii) within 3 months after termination of employment, or (iii) within one year after death if you die before otherwise terminating employment or within 3 months thereafter. However, in no event shall this
Option be exercisable (a) after the Expiration Date, (b) during any administrative suspension, or (c) if your employment was terminated for cause.       Payment of Exercise Price:  You must pay the Option price in full in any one or a combination of the following, subject to the approval of the Committee: (i) through a broker-dealer selected by
you to whom you have submitted an irrevocable exercise notice including an irrevocable instruction to deliver the Option price promptly to the Company by check or wire transfer; (ii) by cash, check, or wire transfer; or (iii) in
unencumbered Shares which you have held for at least 6 months.       Tax Withholding:  The Company s required federal, state and local
tax withholding must be satisfied when you exercise an Option by any one or a combination of the following means: (i) by cash, check, or wire transfer; (ii) withholding of Shares otherwise deliverable to you as a result of the exercise of
an Option; or (iii) in unencumbered Shares, which have been held for at least six months. All Shares shall be valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date the withholding tax obligation arises.   
   Successors Bound by this Notice:  This Notice and the terms of the Plan bind you and your heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns.
      Arkansas Law Governs this Notice:  This Notice shall be governed by and interpreted according to Arkansas law.   

</EX-10.(I)>

<EX-10.(L)>
 5
 dex10l.htm
 AMENDMENT TO FORM OF POST-TERMINATION AGREEMENT

Amendment to Form of Post-Termination Agreement 

EXHIBIT 10(l)        AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT        This Amendment to Agreement
( Amendment ) is made and entered into on the        day of December, 2005, between                       
( the Associate ), and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its affiliates and subsidiaries (collectively  Wal-Mart ).      WHEREAS,  The Associate and Wal-Mart have entered into an agreement concerning, among other things, restrictions on the Associate s employment after terminating from employment with Wal-Mart
(the  Transition Agreement  and       WHEREAS , by this Amendment, the Associate and Wal-Mart wish to amend
certain provisions of the Transition Agreement relating to post-employment payments by Wal-Mart to the Associate;       NOW
THEREFORE , for good and sufficient consideration, the sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge, the parties agree as follows:       

1.   
   Transition Payments.  The Associate and Wal-Mart agree that the existing language in the Transition Agreement concerning the timing of post-employment
payments shall be superseded by the following language:        The Associate will receive Transition Payments based on
the Associate s base salary on the date of termination (the  Salary ). Transition Payments will begin at the end of the regularly scheduled pay period six months after the date of termination. The first Transition Payment shall
be an amount equal to six months  Salary, less applicable withholding. Thereafter, each Transition Payment shall be an amount equal to the Associate s biweekly Salary payment, less applicable withholding, which will continue for the period
set forth in the Transition Agreement.       

APPROVED AND AGREED:   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    

By  

SCHEDULE TO EXHIBIT       This Schedule of Executive Officers Who Have Executed an Amendment to Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is included pursuant to Instruction 2 of Item 601(a) of Regulation S-K for
the purposes of setting forth the material details in which the specific agreements differ from the form of agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 10(1).       
 
         - 2 -

AMENDMENT B       (6 months of salary paid upon separation, with remaining      payments beginning 6
months after separation)   

AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT     
  This Amendment to Agreement ( Amendment ) is made and entered into on the        day of December,
2005, between                        ( the Associate ), and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its affiliates and
subsidiaries (collectively  Wal-Mart ).      WHEREAS,  The Associate and Wal-Mart have entered into an agreement
concerning, among other things, restrictions on the Associate s employment after terminating from employment with Wal-Mart (the  Transition Agreement  and       WHEREAS , by this Amendment the Associate and Wal-Mart wish to amend certain provisions of the Transition Agreement relating to post-employment payments by Wal-Mart to the Associate;   
   NOW THEREFORE , for good and sufficient consideration, the sufficiency of which the parties acknowledge, the parties agree as
follows:       

1.   
   Transition Payments.  The Associate and Wal-Mart agree that the existing language in the Transition Agreement concerning the timing of post-employment
payments shall be superseded by the following language:        The Associate will receive Transition Payments based on
the Associate s base salary on the date of termination (the  Salary ). The first Transition Payment shall be an amount equal to six months  Salary, less applicable withholding, and shall be paid on the date of termination or
as soon thereafter as practical. Subsequent Transition Payments shall commence at the end of the regularly scheduled pay period six months after the date of termination, and each such payment shall be an amount equal to the Associate s biweekly
Salary payment, less applicable withholding, which will continue for the period set forth in the Transition Agreement.       

APPROVED AND AGREED:   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    

By  

</EX-10.(L)>

<EX-10.(M)>
 6
 dex10m.htm
 WAL-MART STORES, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(m)       WAL-MART STORES, INC.        SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN
       (January 1, 2009)    

TABLE OF CONTENTS     

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN        ARTICLE I        GENERAL    
   
    The purpose of this
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan is to supplement the Wal-Mart Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan and the Wal-Mart Puerto Rico Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan. This Plan shall be interpreted and applied at all times in accordance with Code
Section 409A, and guidance issued thereunder.       
    This Plan was initially
effective January 31, 1990. The Plan has been amended from time to time, most recently effective January 1, 2008. The Plan is hereby further amended and restated as of January 1, 2009.   
   
    The Plan is intended to
be (and shall be administered as) an unfunded employee pension plan benefiting a select group of management or highly compensated employees under the provisions of ERISA. The Plan shall be  unfunded  for tax purposes and for purposes of
Title I of ERISA. Any and all payments under the Plan shall be made solely from the general assets of Wal-Mart. A Participant s interests under the Plan do not represent or create a claim against specific assets of Wal-Mart or any Affiliated
Company. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a trust of any kind or create any fiduciary relationship between the Committee, Wal-Mart or any Affiliated Company and a Participant, a Participant s Beneficiary or any other person. To the
extent any person acquires a right to receive payments from Wal-Mart under this Plan, such right is no greater than the right of any other unsecured general creditor of Wal-Mart.   
   ARTICLE II    
   DEFINITIONS        
    Except as otherwise
expressly provided below, capitalized terms used in the Plan shall have the same meanings as set forth for such terms in the Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, and such Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan definitions and operative terms are incorporated
herein by reference. Should there be any conflict between the meanings of terms used in the Plan and the meaning of terms used in the Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, the meaning as set forth in the Plan shall prevail.   

(a)  
   Account  means the bookkeeping account established by the Committee to reflect a Participant s contribution and forfeiture credits pursuant to
Section 4.2, if any, and credited earnings thereon in accordance with Section 4.3.     

(b)  
   Beneficiary  means a person to whom all or a portion of a deceased Participant s Account is payable, as determined in Section 5.3.

(c)  
   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.         

(d)  
   Committee  means the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart, or any successor committee of the Board of Directors
granted responsibility and authority for recommending associate compensation.         

(e)  
   Disability  means, as determined by the Committee, the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.     

(f)  
   Employer  means Wal-Mart and all persons with whom Wal-Mart would be considered a single employer under Code Sections 414(b) and 414(c), except that in applying
Code Sections 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3) for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under Code Section 414(b), the language  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  in
each place it appears in Code Sections 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3), and in applying Treas. Regs. Sec. 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of determining a controlled group of trades or businesses under Code Section 414(c), the language  at least 50
percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  in each place it appears in Treas. Regs. Sec. 1.414(c)-2.         

(g)  
   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.     

(h)  
  A Participant is deemed to have engaged in  Gross Misconduct  if the Committee determines that the Participant has engaged in conduct detrimental to the best
interests of Wal-Mart or any Employer. Examples of conduct detrimental to the best interests of Wal-Mart or any Employer include, without limitation, disclosure of confidential information in violation of Wal-Mart s Statement of Ethics, theft,
the commission of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude, gross misconduct or similar serious offenses.         

(i)  
   Normal Retirement Age  shall mean age 65.         

(j)  
   Participant  means any eligible individual who becomes a participant of the Plan in accordance with Section 3.2. An individual remains a Participant until
the Participant s Account has been fully distributed.         

(k)  
   Pay Date  means the last day of the calendar month in which falls the date that is six (6) months after a Participant s Separation from Service.

(l)  
   Plan  means the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as herein set forth, and as may be amended from time to time.
    
         - 2 -

(m)  
   PR Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of Puerto Rico, as amended from time to time.     

(n)  
   Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan  means, collectively, the Wal-Mart Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan and the Wal-Mart Puerto Rico Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan.

(o)  
   Retirement  means Separation from Service after the Participant attains Normal Retirement Age.     

(p)  
   Separation from Service  means the Participant has a termination of employment with the Employer. Whether a termination of employment has occurred shall be
determined based on whether the facts and circumstances indicate the Participant and Employer reasonably anticipate that no further services will be performed by the Participant for the Employer; provided, however, that a Participant shall be deemed
to have a termination of employment if the level of services he or she would perform for the Employer after a certain date permanently decreases to no more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of bona fide services performed for the
Employer (whether as an employee or independent contractor) over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the full period of services to the Employer if the Participant has been providing services to the Employer for less than 36 months). For
this purpose, a Participant is not treated as having a Separation from Service while he or she is on a military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence, if the period of such leave does not exceed six months, or if longer, so long as
the Participant has a right to reemployment with the Employer under an applicable statute or by contract.         

(q)  
   Valuation Date  means the last day of each Plan Year quarter and, solely for purposes of valuing a Participant s Account under Article V, the date of the
Participant s Separation from Service. Valuation Date shall also include such other dates as the Committee may designate from time to time.         

(r)  
   Vested Percentage  means the percentage determined as of the Participant s Separation from Service in accordance with the schedule then effective under the
Wal-Mart Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan or the Wal-Mart Puerto Rico Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, as applicable, and based on the Participant s Years of Service with the Employer (as defined herein) as of such date. For this purpose, a
Participant s Vested Percentage shall be 100% as of his or her Normal Retirement Age, Disability or death while employed by Wal-Mart or an Employer.         

(s)  
   Wal-Mart  means Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.         ARTICLE III        PARTICIPATION    
   
    The following individuals
shall be eligible to participate in the Plan:       

(a)  
  Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan participants whose allocation of employer contributions (including qualified nonelective employer contributions under the Profit Sharing
and 401(k) Plan) and/or forfeitures to their Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan accounts have been limited due to the application of Code Section 415 and/or Code Section 401(a)(17), or any like provision of the PR Code; and/or
    
         - 3 -

(b)  
  Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan participants who have elected to defer salary and/or bonuses under the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan (and
expressly excluding Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan participants who have been credited with incentive payments under the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan, but who have not made a voluntary election to defer salary or bonuses
under such Plan).        Notwithstanding the above, Participants shall not include Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan participants who are
primarily compensated on a commission basis.       
    An eligible individual
under Section 3.1 shall become a Plan Participant on the later of:       

(b)  
  January 31 of the Plan Year in which the individual satisfies the requirements of Section 3.1.     
  Once amounts are credited to a Participant s Account under Section 4.2, such individual shall remain a Participant until his or her Account is
distributed in full in accordance with Article V; provided, however, in order for the Participant s Account to be credited with employer contributions credits and/or forfeitures for a Plan Year, the Participant must satisfy the requirements of
Section 4.2 for such Plan Year.       ARTICLE IV        PLAN ACCOUNTS AND CREDITS        

4.1   
   Nature of Plan Accounts.         A
Participant s Account shall be used solely as a measuring device to determine the amount (if any) to be paid to a Participant. No amounts shall actually be set aside with respect to any Account. All amounts at any time attributable to an
Account shall be, and remain, the sole property of Wal-Mart. A Participant s rights hereunder are limited to the right to receive Plan benefits as provided herein. An Account represents an unsecured promise by Wal-Mart to pay the benefits
provided by the Plan.       

4.2   
   Contribution and Forfeiture Credits.         As
of the last day of each Plan Year, Wal-Mart shall credit to each Participant s Account the sum of the following amounts:       

(a)  
  the amount of employer contributions and forfeitures which would have been (but were not) allocated to such Participant s Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan account
for such Plan Year had such contributions and forfeitures not been limited by application of Code Section 415 and/or Code Section 401(a)(17), or like Sections (if any) of the PR Code;     
         - 4 -

(b)  
  with respect to Participants who during the Plan Year elected to defer salary and/or bonuses under the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan, the
amount of employer contributions and forfeitures which would have been (but were not) allocated to such Participant s Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan account for the Plan Year but for such Participant s deferral election in the Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. Officer Deferred Compensation Plan; and         

(c)  
  an amount determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, which may differ among Participants or categories of Participants designated by the Committee.
       The amount credited to a Participant s Account under (a) and/or (b) above shall be calculated using the same
percentage on which the Participant s Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan allocations of employer contributions and forfeitures for the Plan Year were determined. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 4.2 to the contrary, in no event will an
initial contribution be made to a Participant s Account unless the aggregate of such initial contribution is at least fifty dollars ($50).       

4.3   
   Income or Loss Adjustment on Plan Accounts.         Except as otherwise provided in Article V, each Account shall be adjusted as of each Valuation Date based on the overall rate of return on the Participant s accounts in the Profit Sharing and 401(k)
Plan since the preceding Valuation Date or, if the Participant did not have any accounts in the Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan for any portion of the period since the preceding Valuation Date, based on the rate of return of the default investment
option as in effect under the Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan since the preceding Valuation Date.       ARTICLE V    
   PAYMENT OF PLAN BENEFITS        

5.1   
   Benefits in the Event of Retirement, Disability or Death.          

(a)  
  Upon a Participant s Separation from Service due to Retirement or Disability, the Participant s Account shall be distributed to the Participant in a lump sum
cash payment during the 90-day period commencing on the Participant s Pay Date. The lump sum amount distributed shall be the sum of: (1) the value of the Participant s Account as of the Participant s Pay Date, valued in
accordance with Section 4.3, but using the Pay Date as the last Valuation Date, and (2) interest on the amount determined in (1) above at the mid-term applicable federal rate (defined pursuant to Code Section 1274(d) for
January 1 of the calendar year, compounded annually) during the period from the Participant s Pay Date through the date of distribution.     
         - 5 -

(b)  
  Upon a Participant s death (whether before or after the Participant s Separation from Service), the Participant s Account shall be distributed to the
Participant s Beneficiary in a lump sum cash payment during the 90-day period following the last day of the calendar month in which such death occurs. If the Participant s death occurs prior to his Separation from Service, the lump sum
amount distributed shall be the sum of: (1) the value of the Participant s Account as of the last day of the month in which the Participant s death occurs, valued in accordance with Section 4.3, but using the last day of such
month as the last Valuation Date and (2) interest on the amount determined in (1) above at the mid-term applicable federal rate (defined pursuant to Code Section 1274(d) for January 1 of the calendar year, compounded annually)
during the period from the last day of the month in which the Participant s death occurs through the date of distribution. If the Participant s death occurs after his Separation from Service, the lump sum amount distributed shall be the
sum of: (1) the value of the Participant s Account as of the last day of the month in which the Participant s death occurs, valued in accordance with Section 4.3, but using the last day of such month as the last Valuation Date,
multiplied by the Participant s Vested Percentage, and (2) interest on the amount determined in (1) above at the mid-term applicable federal rate (defined pursuant to Code Section 1274(d) for January 1 of the calendar year,
compounded annually) during the period from the last day of the month in which the Participant s death occurs through the date of distribution.         

5.2   
   Benefits Due to Separation from Service.      
  Upon a Participant s Separation from Service for reasons other than Retirement, Disability or death, the Participant s Account shall be
distributed to the Participant in a lump sum cash payment during the 90-day period commencing on the Participant s Pay Date. The lump sum amount distributed shall be the sum of: (a) the value of the Participant s Account as of the
Participant s Pay Date, valued in accordance with Section 4.3, but using the Participant s Pay Date as the last Valuation Date, multiplied by the Participant s Vested Percentage, and (b) interest on the amount determined in
(a) above at the mid-term applicable federal rate (defined pursuant to Code Section 1274(d) for January 1 of the calendar year, compounded annually) during the period from the Participant s Pay Date through the date of
distribution.       

5.3   
   Beneficiary Designations.         A Participant
may, by written or electronic instrument delivered to the Committee in the form prescribed by the Committee, designate primary and contingent beneficiaries to receive any benefit payments which may be payable under this Plan following the
Participant s death, and may designate the proportions in which such beneficiaries are to receive such payments. A Participant may change such designation from time to time and the last written designation filed with the Committee prior to the
Participant s death will control. In the event no beneficiaries are designated, or if the designated beneficiaries die before the Participant s Account is distributed, the Account shall be paid to the Participant s beneficiary given
effect with respect to the Participant s Profit Sharing Contribution Account under the Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, whether an affirmative or default election. In the event the Participant has a beneficiary designation in effect with respect
to a Profit Sharing Contribution Account under both the Wal-Mart Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan and the Wal-Mart Puerto Rico Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plan, the beneficiary designation for the Plan in which the Participant was a participant
immediately preceding his or her death shall apply.   
         - 6 -

5.4   
   In-Service Withdrawals.         In no event
shall benefits hereunder be payable to a Participant prior to the Participant s Separation from Service.       ARTICLE VI
       GROSS MISCONDUCT   REDUCTION IN PLAN BENEFITS    

6.1   
   Impact of Gross Misconduct.      
  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a Participant s Plan benefits are contingent upon the Participant not engaging in Gross Misconduct
while employed with Wal-Mart or any Employer, or during such additional period as provided in Wal-Mart s Statement of Ethics. In the event the Committee determines that a Participant has engaged in Gross Misconduct, the Participant s
Account shall be recalculated as if no employer contributions and/or forfeitures were credited to the Participant s Account under Section 4.2 (including adjustments for earnings or losses thereon under Section 4.3) on or after
January 31, 1996. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, such a Participant s Plan benefits (if any) shall be based upon the amount recalculated under the preceding sentence. Any payments received hereunder by a Participant (or
the Participant s Beneficiary) are contingent upon the Participant not engaging (or not having engaged) in Gross Misconduct while employed with Wal-Mart or any Employer, or during such additional period as provided in Wal-Mart s Statement
of Ethics. If the Committee determines, after payment of amounts hereunder, that the Participant has engaged in Gross Misconduct during the prescribed period, the Participant (or the Participant s Beneficiary) shall repay to Wal-Mart any amount
in excess of that to which the Participant is entitled under this Section 6.1.       ARTICLE VII    
   ADMINISTRATION        
    The Committee is
responsible for the management, interpretation and administration of the Plan. The Committee shall have discretionary authority with respect to the determination of benefits under the Plan and the construction and interpretation of Plan provisions.
In such capacity, the Committee is granted the following rights and duties:       

(a)  
  The Committee shall have the exclusive duty, authority and discretion to interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan, to determine eligibility for and the amount
(including the vested percentage) of any benefit payable under the Plan, and to decide any dispute which may rise regarding the rights of Participants (or their Beneficiaries) under this Plan;     

(b)  
  The Committee shall have the sole and complete authority to adopt, alter, and repeal such administrative rules, regulations, and practices governing the operation of
the Plan as it shall from time to time deem advisable;     
         - 7 -

(c)  
  The Committee may appoint a person or persons to assist the Committee in the day-to-day administration of the Plan;     

(d)  
  The decision of the Committee in matters pertaining to this Plan shall be final, binding, and conclusive upon Wal-Mart and any Affiliated Company, and the Participant,
such Participant s Beneficiary, and upon any person affected by such decision, subject to the claims procedure set forth in Article VIII; and         

(e)  
  In any matter relating solely to a Committee member s individual rights or benefits under this Plan, such Committee member shall not participate in any Committee
proceeding pertaining to, or vote on, such matter.         

7.2   
   Allocation and Delegation of Duties.          

(a)  
  The Committee shall have the authority to allocate, from time to time, by instrument in writing filed in its records, all or any part of its respective responsibilities
under the Plan to one or more of its members as may be deemed advisable, and in the same manner to revoke such allocation of responsibilities. In the exercise of such allocated responsibilities, any action of the member to whom responsibilities are
allocated shall have the same force and effect for all purposes hereunder as if such action had been taken by the Committee. The Committee shall not be liable for any acts or omissions of such member. The member to whom responsibilities have been
allocated shall periodically report to the Committee concerning the discharge of the allocated responsibilities.         

(b)  
  The Committee shall have the authority to delegate, from time to time, by written instrument filed in its records, all or any part of its responsibilities under the
Plan to such person or persons as the Committee may deem advisable (and may authorize such person to delegate such responsibilities to such other person or persons as the Committee shall authorize) and in the same manner to revoke any such
delegation of responsibility. Any action of the delegate in the exercise of such delegated responsibilities shall have the same force and effect for all purposes hereunder as if such action had been taken by the Committee. The Committee shall not be
liable for any acts or omissions of any such delegate. The delegate shall periodically report to the Committee concerning the discharge of the delegated responsibilities.     
   ARTICLE VIII        CLAIMS AND APPEALS PROCEDURES        
    A Participant or Beneficiary
( claimant ) who believes he or she is entitled to Plan benefits which have not been paid may file a written claim for benefits with the Committee within one (1) year of the Participant s Separation from Service. If any such
claim is not filed within one (1) year of the Participant s Separation from Service, neither the Plan nor Wal-Mart or any Affiliated Company shall have any obligation to pay the disputed benefit and the claimant shall have no further
rights under the Plan. If a timely claim for a Plan benefit is wholly or partially denied, notice of the decision will be furnished to the claimant by the Committee within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed sixty (60) days (or
forty-five (45) days in the event of a claim involving a Disability determination), after receipt of the claim by the Committee. The Committee may extend the initial period up to any additional sixty (60) days (or thirty (30) days, in
the case of a claim involving a Disability determination), provided the Committee determines that the extension is necessary due to matters beyond the Plan s control and the claimant is notified of the extension before the end of the initial
60-day (or, as applicable, 45-day) period and the date by which the Committee expects to render a decision. (In the case of a claim involving a Disability determination, the Committee may extend this period for an additional thirty (30) days if
the claimant is notified of the extension before the end of the initial 30-day extension.) Any claimant who is denied a claim for benefits will be furnished written notice setting forth:   

(a)  
  the specific reason or reasons for the denial;     
         - 8 -

(b)  
  specific reference to the pertinent Plan provision upon which the denial is based;     

(c)  
  a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim; and     

(d)  
  an explanation of the Plan s appeals procedure.         
    To appeal a denial of
a claim, a claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative:       

(a)  
  may request a review by written application to the Committee not later than sixty (60) days (or one-hundred eighty (180) days in the case of a claim involving
a Disability determination) after receipt by the claimant of the written notification of denial of a claim;         

(b)  
  may review pertinent documents; and         

(c)  
  may submit issues and comments in writing.        A
decision on review of a denied claim will be made by the Committee not later than sixty (60) days (or forty-five (45) days in the event of a claim involving a Disability determination) after receipt of a request for review, unless special
circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a decision will be rendered within a reasonable period of time, but not later than one hundred twenty (120) days (or ninety (90) days in the event of a claim
involving a Disability determination) after receipt of a request for review. The decision on review will be in writing and shall include the specific reasons for the denial and the specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the
decision is based.   
         - 9 -

ARTICLE IX        MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS        

9.1   
   Amendment, Suspension or Termination of Plan.         Wal-Mart, by action of the Committee, reserves the right to amend, suspend or to terminate the Plan in any manner that it deems advisable. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Plan may not be
amended, suspended or terminated to cause a Participant to forfeit his or her then-existing Account. In the event of a complete or partial termination of the Plan, the Vested Percentage applicable to the Accounts of the Participants affected by such
complete or partial termination shall be 100%, and such Accounts shall be paid at the time and in the manner provided in Article V (subject to the provisions of Article VI). No amendment or termination of the Plan may accelerate the date of payment
of a Participant s benefit as provided herein except as permitted by law.      Notwithstanding the preceding, Wal-Mart may, by action of the
Committee within the thirty (30) days preceding or twelve (12) months following a change in control (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) of a relevant affiliate, partially terminate the Plan and distribute benefits to all
Participants involved in such change in control within twelve (12) months after such action, provided that all plans sponsored by the service recipient immediately after the change in control which are required to be aggregated with this Plan
pursuant to Code Section 409A are also terminated and liquidated with respect to each Participant involved in the change in control.       
    The rights of a
Participant to the payment of benefits as provided in the Plan may not be assigned, transferred, pledged or encumbered or be subject in any manner to alienation or anticipation. No Participant may borrow against his or her interest in the Plan. No
interest or amounts payable under the Plan may be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, charge, garnishment, execution or levy of any kind, whether voluntary or involuntary, including but
not limited to, any liability which is for alimony or other payments for the support of a spouse or former spouse, or for any other relative of any Participant.       

9.3   
   No Employment Rights.         Nothing contained
herein shall be construed as conferring upon a Participant the right to continue in the employ of Wal-Mart or any Affiliated Company in the Participant s current position or in any other capacity.   

9.4   
   Withholding and Employment Taxes.         To the
extent required by law, Wal-Mart or an Affiliated Company shall withhold from a Participant s current compensation such taxes as are required to be withheld for employment taxes. To the extent required by law, Wal-Mart or an Affiliated Company
shall withhold from a Participant s Plan distributions such taxes as are required to be withheld for federal, Puerto Rican, state or local government income tax purposes.   
         - 10 -

9.5   
   Income and Excise Taxes.         Each
Participant (or the Participant s Beneficiaries or estate) is solely responsible for the payment of all federal, Puerto Rican, state, and local income and excise taxes resulting from the Participant s participation in this Plan.

9.6   
   Successors and Assigns.         The provisions
of this Plan are binding upon and inure to the benefit of Wal-Mart, each Affiliated Company which then has a Participant in the Plan, their successors and assigns, and each Participant, such Participant s Beneficiaries, heirs, and legal
representatives.       
    This Plan shall be
subject to and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Arkansas to the extent not preempted by federal law.   
         - 11 -

</EX-10.(M)>

<EX-10.(N)>
 7
 dex10n.htm
 WAL-MART STORES, INC. DIRECTOR COMPENSATION PLAN

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan 

EXHIBIT 10(n)        WAL-MART STORES, INC.        DIRECTOR COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN
       (Amended and Restated        Effective June 4, 2010)    

TABLE OF CONTENTS     

i   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   DIRECTOR COMPENSATION DEFERRAL PLAN        ARTICLE I        GENERAL    
   
    Prior to June 4,
2010, the purpose of the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan was to: (a) provide a structure for determining the amount and form of fees (whether paid in cash or Shares); (b) allow Directors to participate in the ownership of
Walmart through equity for their services as Walmart Directors; and (c) allow Directors to defer all or a portion of their Fees (whether paid in cash or Shares). Effective June 4, 2010, the purpose of this Plan is simply to allow Directors
to defer all or a portion of their Fees (whether paid in cash or Shares), whether awarded or determined by the Board under the Stock Incentive Plan or otherwise.       

1.2   
   Background; Effective Dates.          

(a)  
  This Plan was initially adopted on March 7, 1991 and ratified by the stockholders of Walmart on June 5, 1992. The Plan was subsequently amended and restated
effective January 1, 1997 and approved by stockholders at Walmart s 1997 Annual Shareholders  Meeting. The Plan was most recently amended and restated as of January 1, 2009. Walmart reserved and authorized for issuance pursuant
to the terms and conditions of the Plan 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock (which number shall be proportionately adjusted to reflect any stock split, reverse stock split, merger, reorganization, spin-off or other similar transaction).

(b)  
  At its meeting on March 3, 2010, the Committee approved the amendment of this Plan to provide that no further Fees shall be paid or Shares awarded under this Plan
on or after June 4, 2010. From and after that date, cash Fees will be paid to Directors as approved by the Board from time to time and Share grants to Directors will be awarded by the Board under the Stock Incentive Plan (subject to approval of
an amendment to the Stock Incentive Plan by stockholders).         

(c)  
  The Committee has authority pursuant to Section 7.8 of the Stock Incentive Plan to adopt procedures as it deems appropriate to allow Directors to defer their Fees
(whether in cash or Shares) paid or awarded on or after June 4, 2010, in accordance with Code Section 409A. Pursuant to such authority, the Committee hereby amends and restates this Plan to provide for deferral of Fees paid or awarded on
or after June 4, 2010 and renames the Plan the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan.         

(d)  
  The terms of the Plan as stated herein (other than Appendix A) shall apply to all Fees deferred under the Plan on or after January 1, 2005 (whether paid or awarded
pursuant to this Plan prior to June 4, 2010 or paid or awarded by the Board under the Stock Incentive Plan or otherwise on or after June 4, 2010). This Plan (other than Appendix A) shall be interpreted and applied at all times in
accordance with Code Section 409A, and guidance issued thereunder.     

(e)  
  Fees deferred under the Plan on or before December 31, 2004, and earnings thereon, shall continue to be governed at all times by the Plan as in effect on such
date, which Plan is attached hereto as Appendix A. Appendix A shall not be materially modified (as that phrase is defined by Code Section 409A and guidance thereunder), formally or informally (including by interpretation), unless such
modification expressly provides that it is intended to be a material modification within the meaning of Code Section 409A and guidance issued thereunder.     

(f)  
  To the extent Shares are distributed pursuant to this Plan on or after June 4, 2010, such Shares shall be treated as being authorized from the plan under which
they were awarded, that is, for Shares awarded prior to June 4, 2010, the Director Compensation Plan prior to this amendment and restatement, and for Shares awarded on or after June 4, 2010, the Stock Incentive Plan. In the event there are
insufficient Shares under the Plan (including Appendix A), Shares from the Stock Incentive Plan shall be used to pay any benefits under the Plan to be paid in Shares.     
   
    This Plan is
intended to be (and shall be administered as) an unfunded program for federal tax purposes. Cash Deferral Accounts and Share Deferral Accounts are entries in the Special Ledger only and are merely a promise to make payments in the future.
Walmart s obligations under this Plan are unsecured, general contractual obligations of Walmart.       ARTICLE II
       DEFINITIONS        
    Whenever used in this Plan,
the following words and phrases have the meaning set forth below unless the context plainly requires a different meaning:       

(a)  
   Affiliate  means any corporation, company limited by shares, partnership, limited liability company, business trust, other entity, or other business association
with whom Walmart would be considered a single employer under Code Sections 414(b) and 414(c), except that in applying Code Sections 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3) for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under Code
Section 414(b), the language  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  in each place it appears in Code Sections 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3), and in applying Treas. Regs. Sec. 1.414(c)-2 for
purposes of determining a controlled group of trades or businesses under Code Section 414(c), the language  at least 50 percent  shall be used instead of  at least 80 percent  in each place it appears in Treas. Regs. Sec.
1.414(c)-2.         

(b)  
   Board  means the Board of Directors of Walmart.         

(c)  
   Business Day  means a day on which trading is conducted on the New York Stock Exchange.     
         - 2 -

(d)  
   Cash Deferral Account  means an account maintained in the Special Ledger for a Director to which cash equivalent amounts allocable to the Director under this Plan
are credited.         

(e)  
   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. References to Code sections hereunder shall also include regulations and other
guidance issued under such section.         

(f)  
   Committee  means the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board, or any successor committee of the Board granted responsibility and authority
for recommending director compensation.         

(g)  
   Common Stock  means the common stock, $0.10 par value per share, of Walmart.     

(h)  
   Fees  means the amount credited to the Special Ledger for a Director at any particular time.     

(i)  
   Director  means any director of Walmart who is not an employee of Walmart or an Affiliate at the time of service as a director.     

(j)  
   Disability  means, as determined by the Committee, the Director is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable
physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months.     

(k)  
   Distribution Date  means the last day of the month in which the Director s Separation from Service occurs.     

(l)  
   Fair Market Value  means, as of any date, the closing sales price for a Share: (1) on the New York Stock Exchange (or if no trading in Shares occurred on
that date, on the last day on which Shares were traded) or (2) if the Shares are not listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the value of a Share as determined in good faith by the Committee.     
  On or before March 31, 2006, Fair Market Value means, as of any date: (A) for purposes of determining the number of Units to be
credited to a Share Deferral Account upon a Director s election to defer all or any portion of his or her Retainer to such account, the average of the highest and lowest prices quoted for a Share on the New York Stock Exchange on that day, or
if no such prices were quoted for Shares on the New York Stock Exchange for that day for any reason, the average of the highest and lowest prices quoted on the last Business Day on which prices were quoted, and (B) for purposes of determining
the number of Units to be credited to a Share Deferral Account as a dividend equivalent, the closing price for a Share on the New York Stock Exchange on that day, or if no such prices were quoted for the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange for
that day for any reason, the closing price on the last Business Day on which prices were quoted. The highest and lowest prices for Shares shall be those published in the edition of  The Wall Street Journal  or any successor publication for the
next Business Day.   
         - 3 -

(m)  
   Fees  means the annual or quarterly retainer (including annual or quarterly retainers for service as the chairperson of a Board committee or as a member of a
Board committee) and per-meeting fees that would, but for an election made under this Plan, be payable to a Director in Shares or in cash.         

(n)  
  A Director is deemed to have engaged in  Gross Misconduct  if it is determined that the Director has engaged in conduct detrimental to the best interests of
Walmart or any Affiliate. Examples of conduct detrimental to the best interests of Walmart or any Affiliate include, without limitation, violation of Walmart s Statement of Ethics or other Walmart policy governing a Director s behavior
while serving as a Director or applicable period thereafter, or theft, the commission of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude, gross misconduct or similar serious offenses while serving as a Director or otherwise performing services related
to Walmart.         

(o)  
   Interest Rate  means, for each Plan Year, the yield on United States Treasury securities (not indexed for inflation) with a constant maturity of ten
(10) years, as of the first Business Day of January of such Plan Year, plus 270 basis points. The Interest Rate shall be determined on the basis of Federal Reserve Statistical Release H-15 (or any successor statistical release of the Federal
Reserve) and, if there is no such statistical release, on the basis of such other generally recognized source of information concerning the market for United States Treasury securities as the Committee selects.     

(p)  
   Plan  means the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Deferral Plan (formerly the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Director Compensation Plan), as set forth herein,
and as may hereafter be amended from time to time.         

(q)  
   Plan Year  means the twelve (12)-month period beginning on each January 1 and ending on each following December 31.     

(r)  
   Separation from Service  means a Director ceases to be a director of Walmart or any Affiliate, unless immediately upon such cessation the Director enters into a
relationship with Walmart or any Affiliate which would not be a Separation from Service under Code Section 409A, in which case a Separation from Service will be deemed to occur upon the cessation of such relationship as provided in Code
Section 409A.         

(s)  
   Share Deferral Account  shall mean the account maintained in the Special Ledger for a Director to which Units allocable to the Director under this Plan are
credited.         

(t)  
   Shares  means shares of the Common Stock.         

(u)  
   Special Ledger  means a record established and maintained by Walmart in which Cash Deferral Accounts and Share Deferral Accounts, and all amounts credited thereto
and transferred or paid therefrom, are noted.     
         - 4 -

(v)  
   Stock Incentive Plan  means the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan of 2010, as amended from time to time.     

(w)  
   Unit  means a credit to a Share Deferral Account representing one Share.     

(x)  
   Walmart  means Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation.         ARTICLE III        DEFERRAL ELECTIONS    

(a)  
  For each Plan Year, each Director may elect to defer all or any portion of his or her Fees to be paid during the Plan Year. Fees that would have been paid in Shares but
for the Director s election hereunder shall be credited to the Director s Share Deferral Account. Fees that would have been paid in cash but for the Director s election hereunder shall be credited to the Director s Share Deferral
Account or Cash Deferral Account, as elected by the Director.         

(b)  
  The Director s election to defer Fees under this Plan (and the election as to which Account such Fees shall be credited, if applicable) must be made and filed in
accordance with procedures established by the Committee no later than the December 31 preceding the Plan Year for which the election is to be effective. Notwithstanding the preceding, with respect to an individual who becomes a new Director
during a Plan Year (either by election or appointment), the Director s election must be made and filed:         

(1)  
  with respect to Fees to be paid as an annual retainer, prior to the date the individual becomes a Director (either by election or appointment), and

(2)  
  with respect to per-meeting Fees or Fees to be paid on a quarterly basis, within thirty (30) days of the date the individual becomes a Director (either by election
or appointment), but such election shall only apply, in the case of per-meeting Fees, with respect to meetings which occur after the date of such deferral election.     
  For purposes of the preceding sentence, an individual who at one point was a Director, ceased being a Director, and again becomes a
Director (either by election or appointment), shall be considered a new Director only if:       

(A)  
  he or she was not eligible to participate in the Plan (or any other plan or arrangement required by Code Section 409A to be aggregated with the Plan) at any time
during the twenty-four (24)-month period ending on the date he or she again becomes a Director, or         

(B)  
  he or she was paid all amounts previously due under the Plan (and any other plan or arrangement required by Code Section 409A to be aggregated with the Plan) and,
on and before the date of the last such payment, was not eligible to continue to participate in this Plan (or any other plan or arrangement required by Code Section 409A to be aggregated with the Plan) for periods after such payment.
    
         - 5 -

(c)  
  An election may not be revoked, changed or modified after the applicable filing deadline specified in subsection (b) above, including with respect to Fees paid
after the individual ceases to be a Director (but the amount deferred from such former Director s last Fees shall be reduced pro rata if the Director elected a whole dollar amount and the Fees are reduced, for example, due to the Director not
completing the full period of service to which the Fees relate). An election for one Plan Year shall not automatically be given effect for a subsequent Plan Year, so that if deferral is desired for a subsequent Plan Year, a separate election must be
made by the Director for such Plan Year. If no election is made for a Plan Year, the Director shall be deemed to have elected not to defer any of his or her Fees paid during such Plan Year.     
  The deferral election filed by a new Director under subsection (b)(2) above with respect to Fees paid on a quarterly basis shall apply
only to the Fees payable to such Director for services rendered as a Director subsequent to the date of the Director s election. For this purpose, the amount of Fees payable to such Director for services rendered subsequent to the
Director s election shall be determined by multiplying the amount payable on the first quarterly payment date following the date of the Director s election by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of calendar days beginning on
the date of the election and ending on the quarterly payment date, and the denominator of which is the total number of calendar days that the Director served as a Director in the quarter ending on the quarterly payment date.   

(d)  
  For purposes of this Section 3.1, the date of a Director s election is the date the executed election form is received by the Committee.
        ARTICLE IV        DEFERRAL ACCOUNTS        

4.1   
   Share Deferral Accounts.         To the extent
Fees deferred under this Plan are to be credited to the Director s Share Deferral Account, Walmart shall credit to the Director s Share Deferral Account on the date such Fees would otherwise have been paid to the Director a number of Units
equal to the dollar amount of such Fees divided by the Fair Market Value on such date. If Common Stock is the subject of a stock dividend, stock split, or a reverse stock split, the number of Units then credited to the Director s Share Deferral
Account shall be increased or decreased, as the case may be, in the same proportion as the outstanding shares of Common Stock. With respect to any record date for which any cash dividend is paid on Common Stock, Walmart shall credit to the
Director s Share Deferral Account on the applicable dividend payment date an additional number of Units equal to: (a) the aggregate dollar amount of the dividend that would be paid on a number of Shares equal to the number of Units
credited to the Director s Share Deferral Account on the applicable dividend payment date, divided by (b) the Fair Market Value on the applicable dividend payment date. A Director is not entitled to any voting rights with respect to Units
credited to his or her Share Deferral Account, nor shall the Director have any other beneficial shareholder rights with respect to such Units.   
         - 6 -

4.2   
   Cash Deferral Accounts.         To the extent
Fees deferred under this Plan are to be credited to the Director s Cash Deferral Account, Walmart shall credit to the Director s Cash Deferral Account on the date such Fees would otherwise have been paid to the Director a cash equivalent
amount equal to the dollar amount of such Fees. In addition, Walmart shall credit a Director s Cash Deferral Account with interest as provided in Section 4.3.   

4.3   
   Interest on Cash Deferral Accounts.         Each
day during a Plan Year, Walmart shall credit a Director s Cash Deferral Account with a daily rate of simple interest based on the Interest Rate in effect for such Plan Year. This Section 4.3 shall be applicable only through the last day of
the month preceding distribution of the Director s Cash Deferral Account in a single lump sum payment pursuant to Section 5.3 or the last day of the month preceding distribution of the initial installment payment of the Director s
Cash Deferral Account pursuant to Section 5.4.       ARTICLE V    
   PAYMENT OF DEFERRED FEES        

(a)  
  A Director may elect to receive payment of the Director s Deferred Fees in a single lump sum distribution or in substantially equal annual installments over a
period of up to ten (10) years. A Director s form of payment election must be made in accordance with procedures established by the Committee at the time of such Director s initial deferral election under Section 3.1 and shall
apply to all of the Director s Deferred Fees. In the event a Director does not make a timely form of payment election, the Director shall be deemed to have elected payment of all of his or her Deferred Fees in a single lump sum distribution.
       Notwithstanding the preceding, the form of payment of any Director who had Deferred Fees under the Plan as of
December 31, 2007 is the last affirmative election made by such Director on or before such date (in accordance with the rules of the Plan in effect at such date). Any such Director who failed to make an affirmative election on or before
December 31, 2007 was deemed to have elected payment of all of his or her Deferred Fees in a single lump sum distribution.       

(b)  
  A Director may change his or her form of payment election (or deemed payment election) at any time by making a new election (also referred to in this subsection as a
 subsequent election ) on a form approved by and filed with the Committee; provided, however, that such subsequent election shall be subject to the following restrictions:     

(1)  
  A subsequent election may not take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which such subsequent election is made;     
         - 7 -

(2)  
  Payment of the Director s Deferred Fees may not be made or commence earlier than five (5) years from the date such payment would have been made or commenced
absent the subsequent election, unless the distribution is made on account of the Director s Disability or death;         

(3)  
    Payment of a Director s Deferred Fees pursuant to a subsequent election must be completed by the last day of the Plan Year which contains the
fifteenth (15   th   ) anniversary of the Director s
Distribution Date; and          

(4)  
  For purposes of this Section 5.1(b) and Code Section 409A, the entitlement to annual installment payments is treated as the entitlement to a single payment.

(a)  
  If payment of a Director s Deferred Fees is to be made in a single lump sum payment, such payment shall be made within the 90-day period commencing on the
Director s Distribution Date.         

(b)  
  If payment of a Director s Deferred Fees is to be made in annual installments, the first such installment shall be made within the 90-day period commencing on the
Director s Distribution Date, and subsequent installment payments shall be made within the 90-day period commencing on each applicable anniversary of the Director s Distribution Date.     

(c)  
  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any payment to be made hereunder may be delayed by the Committee in the event the Committee reasonably anticipates that
the making of such payment will violate federal securities laws or other applicable law. In such event, payment shall be made at the earliest date on which the Committee reasonably anticipates that the making of such payment will not cause such a
violation.         

(d)  
  In no event shall any payment due hereunder be accelerated earlier than, or delayed past, the date otherwise provided herein, except as permitted by Code
Section 409A.         

5.3   
   Amount of Lump Sum Payments.         If payment
of the Director s Deferred Fees is to be made in a single lump sum distribution, the amount distributed shall be:       

(a)  
  cash equal to the total cash equivalent amount credited to the Director s Cash Deferral Account as of the last day of the month preceding distribution (including
interest credited through such date as provided in Section 4.3); and     
         - 8 -

(b)  
  Shares equal to the number of whole Units credited to the Director s Share Deferral Account as of the distribution, plus cash equal to the Fair Market Value of any
fractional Share as of the distribution.         

5.4   
   Amount of Installment Payments.         If
payment of the Director s Deferred Fees is to be made in installments:       

(a)  
  the Director s Cash Deferral Account will be paid in equal annual installments in an amount which would fully amortize a loan equal to such Cash Deferral Account
as of the last day of the month preceding distribution of the initial installment payment (including interest credited through such date as provided in Section 4.3) over the installment period, with interest calculated at the Interest Rate in
effect for the Plan Year in which the Director s Distribution Date occurs; and         

(b)  
  a pro rata number of whole Shares credited to the Director s Share Deferral Account as of the applicable distribution date will be paid in equal annual
installments, with the Fair Market Value of any fractional Share paid in cash with each installment.         

5.5   
   Distribution Upon Death.          

(a)  
  A Director may, by written or electronic instrument delivered to the Committee in the form prescribed by the Committee, designate primary and contingent beneficiaries
to receive any benefit payments which may be payable under this Plan following the Director s death, and may designate the proportions in which such beneficiaries are to receive such payments. Any such designation shall be applicable to both
Deferred Fees under this Plan and under Appendix A. A Director may change such designation from time to time and the last designation filed with the Committee prior to the Director s death shall control. In the event no beneficiaries are
designated, or if all of the designated beneficiaries die before all of the Director s Deferred Fees is distributed, the Deferred Fees (or balance thereof) shall be paid to the Director s estate.     

(b)  
  Any unpaid Deferred Fees upon a Director s death shall be paid in a single lump sum distribution in the manner provided herein for payment in a single lump sum
distribution to the Director within ninety (90) days of the Director s death; provided, however, that in the event a Director s death occurs after installment payments with respect to his or her Cash Deferral Account have commenced
pursuant to Section 5.4, the remaining Cash Deferral Account will be credited with pro rata interest from the date of the installment payment immediately preceding the Director s death through the lump sum distribution date at the Interest
Rate applicable to the installment payout.     
         - 9 -

This
Section 5.6 is effective only with respect to Fees paid or deferred under this Plan on or after April 1, 2006. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, benefits under this Plan are contingent upon the Director not engaging in Gross
Misconduct. In the event the Committee or its delegate (which expressly may include any officer of Walmart or a non-employee third party (such as a law firm)) determines that a Director has engaged in Gross Misconduct:   

(a)  
  the Director shall repay to Walmart all Fees received by the Director under this Plan from and after the date which is twenty-four (24) months prior to the date of
the behavior serving as the basis for the finding of Gross Misconduct;         

(b)  
  the Director s Deferred Fees shall be recalculated as if no amounts (including interest and dividend equivalents under Sections 4.1 and 4.3) were credited to the
Director s Deferred Fees from and after the date which is twenty-four (24) months prior to the date of the behavior serving as the basis for the finding of Gross Misconduct; and     

(c)  
  if the Committee or its delegate determines, after payment of amounts hereunder, that the Director has engaged in Gross Misconduct during the prescribed period, the
Director (or the Director s beneficiary) shall repay to Walmart any amount in excess of that to which the Director is entitled under Section 5.6.        Any amount to be repaid pursuant to this Section 5.6 shall be held by the Director or beneficiary in constructive trust for the benefit of Walmart and shall be paid by the Director or beneficiary to
Walmart with interest at the prime rate (as published in  The Wall Street Journal ) as of the date the Committee or its delegate determines the Director engaged in Gross Misconduct. The amount to be repaid pursuant to this Section 5.6
shall be determined on a gross basis, without reduction for any taxes incurred, as of the date of the realization event, and without regard to any subsequent change in the fair market value of a Share. Walmart shall have the right to offset such
gain against any amounts otherwise owed to Director by Walmart (whether hereunder, pursuant to any benefit plan or other compensatory arrangement). A Director may appeal a Gross Misconduct determination by the Committee or its delegate as provided
in Article VII.      With respect to any Fees granted by the Board under another plan or Board resolution, the impact of the Director s
misconduct on such portion of the Director s Fees which have not yet been deferred shall be determined under the terms of plan or resolution.   
         - 10 -

ARTICLE VI        ADMINISTRATION        
    The Committee is
responsible for the management, interpretation and administration of the Plan. The Committee shall have discretionary authority with respect to the determination of benefits under the Plan and the construction and interpretation of Plan provisions.
In such capacity, the Committee is granted the following rights and duties:       

(a)  
  The Committee shall have the exclusive duty, authority and discretion to interpret and construe the provisions of the Plan, to determine eligibility for and the amount
of any benefit payable under the Plan, and to decide any dispute which may rise regarding the rights of Directors (or their beneficiaries) under this Plan;     

(b)  
  The Committee shall have the sole and complete authority to adopt, alter, and repeal such administrative rules, regulations, and practices governing the operation of
the Plan as it shall from time to time deem advisable;         

(c)  
  The Committee may appoint a person or persons to assist the Committee in the day-to-day administration of the Plan;     

(d)  
  The decision of the Committee in matters pertaining to this Plan shall be final, binding, and conclusive upon Walmart, the Director, such Director s beneficiary,
and upon any person affected by such decision, subject to the claims procedure set forth in Article VII; and         

(e)  
  In any matter relating solely to a Committee member s individual rights or benefits under this Plan, such Committee member shall not participate in any Committee
proceeding pertaining to, or vote on, such matter.         ARTICLE VII    
   CLAIMS PROCEDURE        
    Any Director or beneficiary
( claimant ) who believes he or she is entitled to Plan benefits which have not been paid may file a written claim for benefits with the Committee within one (1) year of the Director s Distribution Date. If any such claim is not
filed within one (1) year of the Director s Distribution Date, neither the Plan nor Walmart shall have any obligation to pay the disputed benefit and the claimant shall have no further rights under the Plan. If a timely claim for a Plan
benefit is wholly or partially denied, notice of the decision shall be furnished to the claimant by the Committee or its delegate within a reasonable period of time, not to exceed sixty (60) days, after receipt of the claim by the Committee.
Any claimant who is denied a claim for benefits shall be furnished written notice setting forth:       

(a)  
  the specific reason or reasons for the denial;         

(b)  
  specific reference to the pertinent Plan provision upon which the denial is based;     
         - 11 -

(c)  
  a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim; and     

(d)  
  an explanation of the Plan s claim review procedure.         
    To appeal a denial of
a claim, a claimant or the claimant s duly authorized representative:       

(a)  
  may request a review by written application to the Committee not later than sixty (60) days after receipt by the claimant of the written notification of denial of
a claim;         

(b)  
  may review pertinent documents; and         

(c)  
  may submit issues and comments in writing.        A
decision on review of a denied claim shall be made by the Committee or its delegate not later than sixty (60) days after receipt of a request for review, unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, in which case a
decision shall be rendered within a reasonable period of time, but not later than one hundred twenty (120) days after receipt of a request for review. The decision on review shall be in writing and shall include the specific reasons for the
denial and the specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based.       
    Any reference in
this Article VII to a number of days shall include holidays and weekends.       ARTICLE VIII    
   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS        

8.1   
   Amendment or Termination of Plan.         The
Board or the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time. An amendment or the termination of this Plan shall not adversely impact the right of a Director or beneficiary to receive Shares issuable or cash payable at the effective date of
the amendment or termination or any rights that a Director or a beneficiary has in any Cash Deferral Account or Share Deferral Account at the effective date of the amendment or termination. No amendment or termination of the Plan may accelerate the
date of payment of a Director s Deferred Fees, except as otherwise permitted by Code Section 409A.       
    A Director shall not
have the right to transfer, grant any security interest in or otherwise encumber rights he or she may have under the Plan, or to any Cash Deferral Account or any Share Deferral Account maintained for the Director hereunder or any interest therein.
No right or interest of a Director in a Cash Deferral Account or a Share Deferral Account shall be subject to any forced or involuntary disposition or to any charge, liability, or obligation of the Director, whether as the direct or indirect result
of any action of the Director or any action taken in any proceeding, including any proceeding under any bankruptcy or other creditors  rights law. Any action attempting to effect any transaction of that type shall be null, void, and without
effect. Notwithstanding the preceding, distribution may be made to the extent necessary to fulfill a domestic relations order as defined in Code Section 414(p)(1)(B) and in accordance with procedures established by the Committee from time to
time; provided, however, that all such distributions shall be made in a single lump sum payment.   
         - 12 -

8.3   
   Withholding for Taxes.         To the extent
required by law, Walmart shall withhold the amount of cash and Shares necessary to satisfy Walmart s obligation to withhold federal, state, and local income and other taxes on any benefits payable to a Director or beneficiary under this Plan.

8.4   
   Income and Excise Taxes.         The Director
(or the Director s beneficiary) is solely responsible for the payment of all federal, state, local income and excise taxes resulting from the Director s participation in this Plan.   

8.5   
   Successors and Assigns.         The provisions
of this Plan are binding upon and inure to the benefit of Walmart and its successors and assigns, and a Director, the Director s beneficiaries, heirs, and legal representatives.   
   
    This Plan shall be
governed by the laws of the State of Arkansas, except that any matters relating to the internal governance of Walmart shall be governed by the General Corporation Law of Delaware.   
         - 13 -

APPENDIX A        Retainers deferred on or before December 31, 2004 are subject to the terms of the Plan as it existed as of such date, which Plan is set forth in this Appendix A. The terms of this Appendix A shall
not be materially modified (as that phrase is defined by Code Section 409A and guidance thereunder), either formally or informally, unless such modification specifically provides that it is intended to be a material modification within the meaning
of Code Section 409A and guidance thereunder.        WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   DIRECTOR COMPENSATION PLAN    
   Purpose.  This Director Compensation Plan is established to allow the outside directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Wal-Mart ) to
participate in the ownership of Wal-Mart through ownership of shares of the Wal-Mart common stock or deferred stock units. In addition, the Plan is intended to allow Wal-Mart s outside directors to defer all or a portion of their compensation
for their service as directors.       Definitions.  The following words have the definitions given them below.   
    Affiliate   means any corporation, company limited by shares, partnership, limited liability company, business trust,
other entity, or other business association that is controlled by Wal-Mart.        Board   means the board of
directors of Wal-Mart.        Business Day   means a day on which Wal-Mart s executive offices in Bentonville,
Arkansas are open for business and on which trading is conducted on the Exchange.        Common Stock   means the
Common Stock, $0.10 par value per share, of Wal-Mart.        Compensation Date   means the last Business Day of each
calendar quarter.        Deferral Account   means an account maintained in the Special Ledger for a Director to
which cash equivalent amounts allocable to the Director under this Plan are credited.        Director   means any
director of Wal-Mart who is not an employee of Wal-Mart or an Affiliate.        Distribution Date   means the date
on which a Director ceases to be a director of Wal-Mart or on which a Director becomes employed by Wal-Mart or an Affiliate.   

Fair Market Value   means, as to any particular day, the average of the
highest and lowest prices quoted for a share of Common Stock trading on the New York Stock Exchange on that day, or if no such prices were quoted for the shares of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for that day for any reason, the average
of the highest and lowest prices quoted on the last Business Day on which prices were quoted. The highest and lowest prices for the shares of Common Stock shall be those published in the edition of  The Wall Street Journal  or any successor
publication for the next Business Day.        First Component   means the portion of the Retainer payable to a
Director that accounts for at least one-half of the Retainer and that is payable in Shares and may be deferred by crediting Units to a Unit Account maintained for the Director.        Interest Rate   means the annual rate at which interest is deemed to accrue on the amounts credited in a Deferral Account for a Director. The annual rate shall be set by the Board or a
committee of the Board and may be changed from time to time as necessary to reflect prevailing interest rates. [NOTE: The annual rate in effect for a Plan Year for this purpose shall be determined in accordance with the following formula in effect
as of October 3, 2004: the rate on 10-year Treasury notes determined as of the first Business Day of January of each Plan Year, plus 270 basis points. Such formula shall not be modified on or after October 3, 2004. Notwithstanding the
preceding, in light of uncertainty regarding whether adjustment of the annual rate would constitute a material modification of the Plan for Code Section 409A purposes, the annual rate was not adjusted for 2005. The annual rate for 2006 and
future years will be adjusted in accordance with the above formula.]        Plan Year   means each 12-month period
beginning on each January 1 and ending on each December 31.        Retainer   means the amount of
compensation set by the Board from time to time as payable to a Director in each Plan Year on the terms and subject to conditions stated in this Plan, subject to reduction for any portion thereof that a Director elects to defer as provided in this
Plan.        Second Component   means the balance of the Retainer payable to a Director (after reduction for the
First Component) and that is (1) payable in cash or (2) by crediting an amount to a Deferral Account maintained for the Director.        Shares   means shares of the Common Stock.        Special
Ledger   means a record established and maintained by Wal-Mart in which the Deferral Accounts and Units Accounts for the Directors, if any, and the Units and/or amounts credited to the accounts are noted.   
    Unit Account   shall mean the account maintained in the Special Ledger for a Director to which Units allocable to the
Director under this Plan are credited.        Unit   means a credit in a Unit Account representing one Share.

Annual Retainer.  During each Plan Year in which a person is a Director during the existence of this
Plan, the Director be eligible to receive the Retainer payable as follows:      At least one-half of the Retainer shall be and, at
the Director s option, up to the full amount of the Retainer (defined above as the  First Component ) will be (1) payable to the Director in Shares or (2) at the Director s option, deferred by Wal-Mart crediting Units
to a Unit Account maintained for the Director as provided in this Plan.      The balance of the Retainer (defined above as the
 Second Component ) shall be (1) payable in cash or (2) at the Director s option, deferred by Wal-Mart crediting a Deferral Account maintained for the Director as provided in this Plan with an amount that would be otherwise
payable to the Director in cash.      The Retainer will be payable in arrears in equal quarterly installments on each Compensation Date unless
deferred as provided below. Each quarterly installment will consist of one-fourth of the First Component and one-fourth of the Second Component, if any, for each Director.       Elections.  Each Director who was a Director during the prior Plan Year must elect by no later than December 31 of the prior Plan Year how he or she will receive the Retainer. Each Director who
becomes a Director during a Plan Year must elect within 30 days after becoming a Director how he or she will receive the Retainer. Each election must be made by the Director filing an election form with the Secretary of Wal-Mart. If a Director does
not file an election form for each Plan Year by the specified date, the Director will be deemed to have elected to receive and defer the Retainer in the manner elected by the Director in his or her last valid election. Any person who becomes a
Director during a Plan Year and does not file the required election within 30 days will be deemed to have elected to receive all of the Retainer in Shares. Any election to defer a portion of the Retainer made by a person who becomes a Director
during a Plan Year will be valid as to the portion of the Retainer received after the election is filed with the Secretary of Wal-Mart. When an election is made for a Plan Year, the Director may not revoke or change that election.   
   The Shares.  If a Director elects to receive Shares in payment of all or any part of the Director s Retainer, the number of Shares to be
issued on any Compensation Date shall equal one-fourth of the amount of the Retainer to be paid in Shares for the Plan Year divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Compensation Date. Any Shares issued under this Plan will be registered
under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and, so long as shares of the Common Stock are listed for trading on the New, York Stock Exchange, will be listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange.   
   The Units.  If a Director defers any portion of the Retainer in the form of Units, then on each Compensation Date, Wal-Mart will credit a Unit
Account maintained for the Director with a number of Units equal to (1) one-fourth of the dollar amount of the Retainer that the Director has elected to defer in the form of Units for the Plan Year divided by (2) the Fair Market Value on
the Compensation Date. If the Common Stock is the subject of a stock dividend, stock split, or a reverse stock split, the number of Units will be increased or decreased, as the case may be, in the same proportion as the outstanding shares of Common
Stock. Wal-Mart will credit to the Director s Unit Account on the date any dividend is paid on the Common Stock, an additional number of Units equal to (I) the aggregate amount of the dividend that would be paid on a number of Shares equal
to the number of Units credited to the Director s Unit Account on the date the dividend is paid divided by (II) the Fair Market Value on that date.   

Deferral Account.  If a Director defers receipt of any portion of the Retainer by having an amount
credited to a Deferral Account, then on each Compensation Date, Wal-Mart will credit to the Director s Deferral Account an amount equal to one-fourth of the dollar amount of the Retainer deferred for the Plan Year. On the last day of each Plan
Year, Wal-Mart will also credit the Deferral Account with interest, calculated at the Interest Rate, on the aggregate amount credited to the Deferral Account.      [Effective January 1, 2009, Deferral Accounts shall be credited with interest on a daily basis. The amount of interest to be credited each day shall be a daily rate of simple interest based on the
Interest Rate in effect for the Plan Year. It has been determined that this modification does not constitute a  material modification  for purposes of Code Section 409A.]       Distribution of the Amounts in a Unit Account.  After the Distribution Date for a former Director, Wal-Mart will issue to the former Director that number of Shares equal to the number of Units with
which the former Director s Unit Account is credited. The former Director may elect to receive all of the Shares at one time or in up to 10 annual installments as described below. If the Director has elected to receive all of the Shares at one
time, Wal-Mart will issue the Shares as soon as practicable after the Distribution Date.      If the former Director has elected to receive the
Shares in installments, a pro rata number of Shares will be issued for each installment plus additional Shares equal to the Units credited to the Unit Account respecting dividends paid on the Common Stock since the last installment was made.
Wal-Mart will issue the first installment of Shares as soon as practicable after the former Director s Distribution Date. The remaining installments of Shares will be issued on or about each anniversary of the Director s Distribution Date.
      Distribution of the Amounts in a Deferral Account.  After the Distribution Date for a former Director, Wal-Mart will pay the former
Director cash equal to the amount with which the former Director s Deferral Account is credited. The former Director may elect to receive all of the cash at one time or in up to 10 annual installments as described below. If the former Director
has elected to receive all of the cash at one time, Wal-Mart will pay the cash to the former Director as soon as practicable after the Distribution Date.      If the former Director has elected to be paid the cash in installments, a pro rata portion of the amount credited to the Deferral Account on the Distribution Date will be paid in each installment, along
with the additional amount credited to the Deferral Account as interest since the last installment was paid. Wal-Mart will pay to the former Director the cash to be paid in the first installment as soon as practicable after the Distribution Date.
The remaining installments of cash shall be paid on or about each anniversary of the Director s Distribution Date.       Conversion of
Accounts.  At any time prior to the Distribution Date, a Director who has a Deferral Account may convert all or any portion of the Deferral Account into Units credited to a Unit Account. The number of Units to be credited to the Director s
Unit Account upon the conversion shall equal (1) the amount credited to the Director s Deferral Account so converted divided by (2) the Fair Market Value on the date of the Director s election to convert.   

At any time prior to the Distribution Date, a Director who has a Unit Account may convert all or any portion
of the Unit Account into a Deferral Account. The cash amount to be credited to the Director s Deferral Account upon the conversion shall equal (1) the number of Units credited to his or her Unit Account so converted multiplied by
(2) the Fair Market Value on the date of the Director s election to convert.      Any election to convert must be made on a form
prescribed by Wal-Mart and filed with its Secretary. The conversion of a Unit Account or a Deferral Account shall be deemed to occur on the date of the Director s election.       Distribution in the Event of a Director s Death.  Each Director who defers any part of the Retainer payable to him or her in any Plan Year must designate one or more beneficiaries of the
Director s Deferral Account and Unit Account, who may be changed from time to time. The designation of a beneficiary must be made by filing with Wal-Mart s Secretary a form prescribed by Wal-Mart. If no designation of a beneficiary is
made, any deferred benefits under this Plan will be paid to the Director s or former Director s estate. If a Director dies while in office or a former Director dies during the installment payment period, Wal-Mart will issue the Shares and
pay the amounts of cash that are issuable and payable to the Director or former Director at one time as soon as practicable after the death of the Director or the former Director.       Timing of Election to Receive Deferred Benefits in Installments.  If the Director wants the benefits distributed in installments, the election to receive payments in installments must be on file for
a period of at least 12 full months prior to the Director ceasing to be a director of Wal-Mart. The last valid election on file with Wal-Mart s Secretary for at least 12 full months will be given effect by Wal-Mart in distributing the benefits.
      Withholding for Taxes.  Wal-Mart will withhold the amount of cash and Shares necessary to satisfy Wal-Mart s obligation to
withhold federal, state, and local income and other taxes on any benefits received by the Director, the former Director or a beneficiary under this Plan.       No Transfer of Rights under this Plan.  A Director or former Director shall not have the right to transfer, grant any security interest in or otherwise encumber rights he or she may have under this
Plan, any Deferral Account or any Unit Account maintained for the Director or former Director or any interest therein. No right or interest of a Director or a former Director in a Deferral Account or a Unit Account shall be subject to any forced or
involuntary disposition or to any charge, liability, or obligation of the Director or former Director, whether as the direct or indirect result of any action of the Director or former Director or any action taken in any proceeding, including any
proceeding under any bankruptcy or other creditors  rights law. Any action attempting to effect any transaction of that type shall be null, void, and without effect. Notwithstanding the preceding, distribution may be made to the extent
necessary to fulfill a domestic relations order as defined in Code Section 414(p)(1)(B) and in accordance with procedures established by the Committee from time to time; provided, however, that all such distributions shall be made in a single
lump sum payment.   

Unfunded Plan.  This Plan will be unfunded for federal tax purposes. The Deferral Accounts and the
Unit Accounts are entries in the Special Ledger only and are merely a promise to make payments in the future. Wal-Mart s obligations under this Plan are unsecured, general contractual obligations of Wal-Mart.   
   Amendment and Termination of the Plan.  The Board or the Compensation and Nominating Committee of the Board may amend or terminate this Plan at any
time. An amendment or the termination of this Plan will not adversely affect the right of a Director, former Director, or Beneficiary to receive Shares issuable or cash payable at the effective date of the amendment or termination or any rights that
a Director, former Director, or a Beneficiary has in any Deferral Account or Unit Account at the effective date of the amendment or termination. If the Plan is terminated, however, Wal-Mart may, at its option, accelerate the payment of all deferred
and other benefits payable under this Plan.       Governing Law.  This Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Arkansas, except
that any matters relating to the internal governance of Wal-Mart shall be governed by the General Corporation Law of Delaware. Wal-Mart has right to interpret this Plan, and any interpretation by Wal-Mart shall be conclusive as to the meaning of
this Plan.       Effective Date and Transition.  This Plan amends and restates in full the Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Directors Deferred
Compensation Plan adopted on March 7, 1991 and as ratified by the stockholders of Wal-Mart on June 5, 1992. The effective date of this amendment and restatement of that Plan shall be January 1, 1997, and the Plan became operative and
in effect on the date, subject only to the ratification of the Plan by the stockholders of Wal-Mart at Wal-Mart s 1997 annual stockholders  meeting. The Board has reserved and authorized for issuance pursuant to the terms and conditions of
this Plan 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock.   

</EX-10.(N)>

<EX-10.(P)>
 8
 dex10p.htm
 FORM OF POST -TERMINATION AGREEMENT

Form of Post -Termination Agreement 

EXHIBIT 10(p)        POST-TERMINATION AGREEMENT         AND COVENANT NOT TO COMPETE
       This Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete (this  Agreement ) is entered into as of
                     ,            by and between Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates
(collectively,  Walmart ) and
                                          
( Associate ).       RECITALS        WHEREAS , Walmart proposes that Associate: (a) be permitted to continue Associate s at will employment with Walmart; and (b) receive a restricted stock award of
$                       of Walmart shares of common stock (the  Restricted Stock Award  and   
   WHEREAS , as consideration for and as a condition of: (a) Associate continuing Associate s at will employment with
Walmart; and (b) receiving the Restricted Stock Award (collectively, the  Special Items ), Associate is required to execute and deliver this Agreement to Walmart; and   
   WHEREAS,  the parties agree that this Agreement shall supersede and replace in its entirety the Restricted Stock Grant,
Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete between the Associate and Walmart dated                       , as amended by the
Amendment to Agreement between the Associate and Walmart dated                        (collectively, the  Post-Termination
Agreement ).       AGREEMENT        NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of the premises and the acknowledgments, covenants, representations, warranties and agreements contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration,
including but not limited to the Special Items being conveyed to Associate by Walmart, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:   
   1.   ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.  As part of this Agreement, the parties specifically acknowledge that:   
  (A) Walmart is a major retail operation, with stores located throughout the United States, territories of the United States and in
certain foreign countries;      (B) Associate has served as
                                          
for a number of years, which appointment was made by the Walmart Board of Directors and which position is a key officer position appointed by the Walmart Board of Directors;   

(C) As an essential part of its business, Walmart has cultivated, established and maintained
long-term customer and vendor relationships and goodwill and competitive advantages, which are difficult to develop and maintain, have required and continue to require a significant investment of time, effort, and expense, and that can suffer
significantly and irreparably upon the departure of key officers, regardless of whether the officer has been personally involved in developing or maintaining the relationships, goodwill or competitive advantages;   
  (D) In the development of its business, Walmart has expended a significant amount of time, money, and effort in developing, maintaining,
and protecting private, sensitive, confidential, proprietary, and trade secret information including but not limited to, information regarding Walmart s products or services, strategies, research and development efforts, logistics,
transportation, selling and delivery plans, geographic markets, developing or potential geographic markets, developing or potential product markets, mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, data, business methods, computer programs and related source
and object code, supplier and customer relationships, contacts and information, methods or sources of product manufacture, know-how, product or service cost or pricing, personnel allocation or organizational structure, business, marketing,
development and expansion or contraction plans, information concerning the legal or financial affairs of Walmart, any other non-public information, and any other information protected by the Nondisclosure and Restricted Use Agreement executed by
Associate (collectively,  Confidential Information ), the disclosure or misuse of which could cause irreparable harm to Walmart s business, anticipated business, and its competitive position in the retail marketplace;   
  (E) Associate has had access to such Confidential Information in Associate s current key officer position that would be of
considerable value to Walmart s global and domestic competitors and potential competitors and Associate will continue to have access to Confidential Information that would be of considerable value to Walmart s global and domestic
competitors and potential competitors; and      (F) Associate acknowledges that Walmart is entitled to take appropriate steps to
ensure: (i) that its associates do not misappropriate or make any other improper use of Confidential Information; (ii) that no individual associate, competitor or potential competitor gains an unfair, competitive advantage over Walmart;
and (iii) that its competitors and potential competitors do not improperly gain access to or make any use of Confidential Information in their efforts to compete against, or cause harm to, Walmart.   
   2. TRANSITION PAYMENTS.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Transition Period  means a period of two
(2) years from the effective date of Associate s termination of employment with Walmart. If Walmart terminates Associate s employment, Walmart will pay Associate during the Transition Period an amount equal to Associate s base
salary at the rate in effect on the date of termination ( Transition Payments ), subject to such withholding as may be required by law and subject to the conditions set forth in this Section 2. Transition Payments will commence and be
paid at the times and in the amounts provided in Section 2(E).   
         2   

(A) Transition Payments will not be paid if Associate is terminated as the result of
Associate s violation of any Walmart policy.      (B) No Transition Payments will be paid if Associate voluntarily resigns or
retires from employment with Walmart.      (C) Given the availability of other programs designed to provide financial protection
in such circumstances, Transition Payments will not be paid under this Agreement if Associate dies or becomes disabled. If Associate dies during the Transition Period, Transition Payments will cease, and Associate s heirs will not be entitled
to the continuation of such payments. Transition Payments will not be affected by Associate s disability during the Transition Period.      (D) Associate s violation of the obligations under Sections 4, 5 or 6, below, or any other act that is materially harmful to Walmart s business interests during the Transition Period, will
result in the immediate termination of the Transition Payments, the recovery of the Transition Payments already made, and any other remedies that may be available to Walmart.      (E) Transition Payments will be paid as follows:      (i) The first
Transition Payment shall be an amount equal to six months of the Associate s base salary, less applicable withholding, and shall be paid within thirty (30) days following termination; and   
  (ii) Subsequent Transition Payments shall commence on the first regularly scheduled pay period following six
(6) months after Associate s termination and shall be made during each regularly scheduled pay period thereafter during the Transition Period. Each Transition Payment shall be the amount which would have continued as part of
Associate s regular base salary, less applicable withholding, and shall be made in the regularly scheduled payroll cycle, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.   
  (F) Receipt of Transition Payments will not entitle Associate to participate during the Transition Period in any other incentive,
restricted stock, performance share, stock option, stock incentive, profit sharing, management incentive or other associate benefit plans or programs maintained by Walmart; except, that, Associate will be entitled to participate in such plans or
programs to the extent that the terms of the plan or program provide for participation by former associates. Such participation, if any, shall be governed by the terms of the applicable plan or program.   
   3. BENEFITS.  Associate will be eligible for all other payments and benefits accrued and owing at the time of termination.
Participation in all other benefit programs available to current associates will end on the effective date of Associate s termination, subject to Associate s rights under COBRA to continue group medical and dental coverage for eighteen
(18) months, pursuant to the terms of COBRA, which are currently extended to terminating Walmart associates.   
         3   

4. COVENANT NOT TO COMPETE.  Due to the strategic, sensitive and far-reaching nature
of the Associate s current position at Walmart, and the Confidential Information to which the Associate is and has been exposed, Associate agrees, promises, and covenants that:   
  (A) For a period of two (2) years from the date on which Associate s employment with Walmart terminates, and regardless of the
cause or reason for such termination, Associate will not directly or indirectly:      (i) own, manage, operate,
finance, join, control, advise, consult, render services to, have a current or future interest in, or participate in the ownership, management, operation, financing, or control of, or be employed by or connected in any manner with, any Competing
Business as defined below in Section 4(B)(i) and/or any Global Retail Business as defined below in Section 4(B)(ii); and/or      (ii) participate in any other activity that risks the use or disclosure of Confidential Information either overtly by the Associate or inevitably through the performance of such activity by the Associate;
and/or      (ii) solicit for employment, hire or offer employment to, or otherwise aid or assist any person or
entity other than Walmart in soliciting for employment, hiring, or offering employment to, any Officer, Officer Equivalent or Management Associate of Walmart, or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.   
  (B) (i) For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Competing Business  shall include any general or specialty retail,
grocery, wholesale membership club, or merchandising business, inclusive of its respective parent companies, subsidiaries and/or affiliates that: (a) sells goods or merchandise at retail to consumers and/or businesses (whether through physical
locations, via the internet or combined) or has plans to sell goods or merchandise at retail to consumers and/or businesses (whether through physical locations, via the internet or combined) within twelve (12) months following Associate s
last day of employment with Walmart in the United States; and (b) has gross annual consolidated sales volume or revenues attributable to its retail operations (whether through physical locations, via the internet or combined) equal to or in
excess of U.S.D. $5 billion.      (ii) For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Global Retail Business 
shall include any general or specialty retail, grocery, wholesale membership club, or merchandising business, inclusive of its respective parent companies, subsidiaries and/or affiliates, that: (a) in any country or countries outside of the
United States in which Walmart conducts business or intends to conduct business in the twelve (12) months following Associate s last day of employment with Walmart, sells goods or merchandise at retail to consumers and/or businesses
(whether through physical locations, via the internet or combined); and (b) has gross annual consolidated sales volume or revenues attributable to its retail operations (whether through physical locations, via the internet or combined) equal to
or in excess of U.S.D. $5 billion in any country pursuant to (B)(ii)(a) or in the aggregate equal to or in excess of U.S.D. $5 billion in any countries taken together pursuant to (B)(ii)(a) when no business in any one country has annual consolidated
sales volume or revenues attributable to its retail operations equal to or in excess of U.S.D. $5 billion.   
         4   

(iii) For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Management
Associate  shall mean any domestic or international associate holding the title of  manager  or above.      (iv) For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Officer  shall mean any domestic Walmart associate who holds a title of Vice President or above.   
  (v) For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Officer Equivalent  shall mean any non-U.S. Walmart associate who
Walmart views as holding a position equivalent to an officer position, such as managers and directors in international markets, irrespective of whether such managers and directors are on assignment in the U.S.   
  (C) Ownership of an investment of less than the greater of $25,000 or 1% of any class of equity or debt security of a Competing Business
and/or a Global Retail Business will not be deemed ownership or participation in ownership of a Competing Business and/or a Global Retail Business for purposes of this Agreement.   
  (D) The covenant not to compete contained in this Section 4 shall bind Associate, and shall remain in full force and effect,
regardless of whether Associate qualifies, or continues to remain eligible, for the Transition Payments described in Section 2 above. Termination of the Transition Payments pursuant to Section 2 will not release Associate from
Associate s obligations under this Section 4.       5. FUTURE ASSISTANCE.  Associate agrees to provide reasonable
assistance and cooperation to Walmart in connection with any agency investigation, litigation or similar proceedings that may exist or may arise regarding events as to which Associate has knowledge by virtue of Associate s employment with
Walmart. Walmart will compensate Associate for reasonable travel, materials, and other expenses incidental to any such support Associate may provide to Walmart, at Walmart s request.   
   6. PRESERVATION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.  Associate will not at any time, directly or indirectly, use or disclose any
Confidential Information obtained during the course of Associate s employment with Walmart and following the Associate s termination of employment with Walmart, except as may be authorized by Walmart.   
   7. REMEDIES FOR BREACH.  The parties shall each be entitled to pursue all legal and equitable rights and remedies to secure
performance of their respective obligations and duties under this Agreement, and enforcement of one or more of these rights and remedies will not preclude the parties from pursuing any other rights and remedies. Associate acknowledges that a breach
of the provisions of Sections 4 through 6, above, could result in substantial and irreparable damage to Walmart s business, and that the restrictions contained in Sections 4 through 6 are a reasonable attempt by Walmart to protect its rights
and to safeguard its Confidential Information. Associate expressly agrees that upon a breach or a threatened breach of the provisions of Sections 4 through 6, Walmart shall be entitled to injunctive relief to restrain such violation, and Associate
hereby expressly consents to the entry of such temporary, preliminary, and/or permanent injunctive relief, as may be necessary to enjoin the violation or threatened violation of Sections 4 through 6. With respect to any breach of this Agreement by
Associate, Associate agrees to indemnify and hold Walmart harmless from and against any and all loss, cost, damage, or expense, including, but not limited to, attorneys  fees, incurred by Walmart, and to return immediately to Walmart all of the
monies previously paid to Associate by Walmart under this Agreement; provided, however, that such repayment shall not constitute a waiver by Walmart of any other remedies available under this Section or by law.   
         5   

8. SEVERABILITY.  In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction shall determine
that any portion of this Agreement is invalid or otherwise unenforceable, the parties agree that the remaining portions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The parties also expressly agree that if any portion of the covenant not
to compete set forth in Section 4 shall be deemed unenforceable, then the Agreement shall automatically be deemed to have been amended to incorporate such terms as will render the covenant enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.
      9. NATURE OF THE RELATIONSHIP.  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to constitute a
contract of employment for a definite term. The parties acknowledge that Associate is not employed by Walmart for a definite term, and that either party may sever the employment relationship at any time and for any reason not otherwise prohibited by
law.       10. ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This document, along with the most recent Non-Disclosure and Restricted Use Agreement
executed by and between the parties (the  Ancillary Agreement ), contain the entire understanding and agreement between Associate and Walmart regarding the subject matter of this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreement. This Agreement,
together with the Ancillary Agreement, supersede and replace any and all prior understandings or agreements between the parties regarding this subject, including the Post-Termination Agreement, and no representations or statements by either party
shall be deemed binding unless contained herein or therein.       11. MODIFICATION.  This Agreement may not be amended,
modified, or altered except in a writing signed by both parties or their designated representatives.       12. SUCCESSORS AND
ASSIGNS.  This Agreement will inure to the benefit of, and will be binding upon, Walmart, its successors and permitted assigns, and on Associate and Associate s heirs, successors, and permitted assigns. No rights or obligations under this
Agreement may be assigned to any other person without the express written consent of all parties hereto.   
         6   

13. COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, in which case each
of the two counterparts will be deemed to be an original.       14. GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE.  This Agreement shall be
governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to Delaware law concerning the conflicts of law. The parties agree that any action relating to the interpretation, validity, or enforcement of this
Agreement shall be brought in the courts of the State of Delaware, County of New Castle, or in the United States District Court of Delaware, and the parties hereby expressly consent to the jurisdiction of such courts and agree that venue is proper
in those courts. The parties do hereby irrevocably: (a) submit themselves to the personal jurisdiction of such courts; (b) agree to service of such courts  process upon them with respect to any such proceeding; (c) waive any
objection to venue laid therein; and (d) consent to service of process by registered mail, return receipt requested. Associate further agrees that in any claim or action involving the execution, interpretation, validity, or enforcement of this
Agreement, Associate will seek satisfaction exclusively from the assets of Walmart and will hold harmless all of Walmart s individual directors, officers, employees, and representatives.   
   15. STATEMENT OF UNDERSTANDING.  By signing below, Associate acknowledges: (i) that Associate has received a copy of this
Agreement, (ii) that Associate has read the Agreement carefully before signing it, (iii) that Associate has had ample opportunity to ask questions concerning the Agreement and has had the opportunity to discuss the Agreement with legal
counsel of Associate s own choosing, and (iv) that Associate understands the rights and obligations under this Agreement and enters into this Agreement voluntarily.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the date first above written.       

WAL-MART STORES, INC.  

[Name of Associate]   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

7   

SCHEDULE TO EXHIBIT       This Schedule of Named Executive Officers Who Have Executed a Post-Termination Agreement and Covenant Not to Compete is included pursuant to Instruction 2 of Item 601(a) of Regulation S-K for the
purposes of setting forth the material details in which the specific agreements differ from the form of agreement filed herewith as Exhibit 10(p).       
 
         8   

</EX-10.(P)>

<EX-12>
 9
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF THE EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES RATIOS

Statement regarding computation of the Earnings to Fixed Charges Ratios 

EXHIBIT 12        RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES        

(1)   
        All prior periods
have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the accounting change. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  Note 2.  Accounting Change.       

(2)     
    Includes interest on debt and capital leases, amortization of debt issuance costs and capitalized interest.      

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 10
 dex13.htm
 PORTIONS OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS

Portions of our Annual Report to Shareholders 

EXHIBIT 13       Five-Year Financial Summary       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.   
   (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share and unit count data)         

(1)  
  Effective May 1, 2010, the Company implemented a new financial system for its operations in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Concurrent with this
implementation and the increased system capabilities, the Company changed the level at which we apply the retail method of accounting for inventory in these operations. The retrospective application of this accounting change impacted both segment
and consolidated operating income, as well as consolidated net income for all comparable periods presented. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  Note 2.  Accounting Change.      
  In addition, we reclassified certain revenue and expense items within our Consolidated Statements of Income for financial reporting
purposes. The reclassifications did not impact consolidated operating income or consolidated net income attributable to Walmart. The changes were effective February 1, 2009 and have been reflected for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.   

(2)  
  Comparable store and club sales include fuel. Fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 comparable sales include all stores and clubs that have been open for at least the previous 12
months. Additionally, for those fiscal years, stores and clubs that are relocated, expanded or converted are excluded from comparable sales for the first 12 months following the relocation, expansion or conversion. Fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009
comparable sales include sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12 months, including remodels, relocations and expansions. Fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 comparable store and club sales do not reflect reclassifications effective
February 1, 2009, as noted above.     
         1   

Table of contents    

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

3  

Consolidated Statements of Income   

22  

Consolidated Balance Sheets   

23  

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity   

24  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows   

25  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

26  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

50  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

51  

Management s Report to our Shareholders   

52  

Fiscal 2011 Unit Count   

54  

Board of Directors   

56  

Corporate and Stock Information   

57  
        
         2   

Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.        Management s Discussion and Analysis of        Financial Condition and Results of
Operations        Overview    
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Walmart,  the  Company  or  we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is
committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( EDLP ), while fostering a culture that
rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Our focus
for Sam s Club is to provide exceptional value on brand name and private label merchandise at  members only  prices for both business and personal use. Internationally, we operate with similar philosophies. Our fiscal year ends on
January 31 for our U.S. and Canada operations and on December 31 for all other operations. We discuss how the results of our various operations are consolidated for financial reporting purposes in Note 1 in the  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.       We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our
financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. We also
discuss certain performance metrics that management uses to assess our performance. The discussion also provides information about the financial results of the various segments of our business to provide a better understanding of how those segments
and their results affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company as a whole. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 31, 2011, and the fiscal year then
ended and accompanying notes.      Currently, our operations consist of three reportable business segments: (1) the Walmart U.S. segment;
(2) the Walmart International segment; and (3) the Sam s Club segment. The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company s mass merchant concept in the United States and Puerto Rico operating under the  Walmart  or
 Wal-Mart  brand, as well as walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company s operations outside of the United States and Puerto Rico. The Sam s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the
United States and Puerto Rico, as well as samsclub.com.      Throughout this Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, we discuss segment operating income and comparable store and club sales. The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment s operating income, including certain corporate overhead
allocations. From time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker. When we do so,
the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. The amounts representing  Other  in the leverage discussion of the Company Performance Metrics are unallocated
corporate overhead items.      Comparable store and club sales is a metric which indicates the performance of our existing U.S. stores and clubs
by measuring the change in sales for such stores and clubs for a particular period from the corresponding period in the prior year. Walmart s definition of comparable store sales includes sales from stores and clubs open for the previous 12
months, including remodels, relocations and expansions. Changes in format continue to be excluded from comparable store and club sales when the conversion is accompanied by a relocation or expansion that results in a change in square feet of more
than five percent. Since the impact of this revision is inconsequential, the Company will not restate comparable store and club sales results for previously reported years. Comparable store and club sales are also referred to as
 same-store  sales by others within the retail industry. The method of calculating comparable store and club sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our calculation of comparable store and club sales is not necessarily
comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.      In discussions of our consolidated results and the operating results of
our Walmart International segment, we sometimes refer to the impact of changes in currency exchange rates. When we refer to changes in currency exchange rates or currency exchange rate fluctuations, we are referring to the differences between the
currency exchange rates we use to convert the Walmart International segment s operating results from local currencies into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. The impacts of currency exchange rate fluctuations are typically
calculated as the difference between current period activity translated using the current period s currency exchange rates and the comparable prior year period s currency exchange rates, respectively. We use this method for all countries
where the functional currency is not denominated in the U.S. dollar.   
         3   

In connection with the Company s new financial system implementation, we changed the level at which we
apply the retail method of accounting for inventory. The retrospective application of this accounting change impacted both segment and consolidated operating income, as well as consolidated net income for all comparable periods presented. See
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,  Note 2.  Accounting Change.       In addition, we reclassified certain revenue
and expense items within our Consolidated Statements of Income for financial reporting purposes. The reclassifications did not impact consolidated operating income or consolidated net income attributable to Walmart. All prior period amounts have
been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.        The Retail Industry     
  We operate in the highly competitive retail industry in all of the countries we serve. We face strong sales competition from other discount, department,
drug, variety and specialty stores, warehouse clubs, and supermarkets, many of which are national, regional or international chains, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. We compete with a number of companies for prime retail
site locations, as well as in attracting and retaining quality employees (whom we call  associates ). We, along with other retail companies, are influenced by a number of factors including, but not limited to: general economic conditions,
cost of goods, consumer disposable income, consumer debt levels and buying patterns, consumer credit availability, interest rates, customer preferences, unemployment, labor costs, inflation, deflation, currency exchange fluctuations, fuel and energy
prices, weather patterns, climate change, catastrophic events, competitive pressures and insurance costs. Further information on certain risks to our Company can be located in  Item 1A. Risk Factors  in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended January 31, 2011.       Company Performance Metrics       The Company s performance metrics emphasize three priorities for improving shareholder value: Growth, Leverage and Returns. The Company s priority of growth focuses on sales through comparable
store and club sales and unit square feet growth; the priority of leverage encompasses the Company s objective to increase its operating income at a faster rate than the growth in net sales by growing its operating, selling, general and
administrative expenses ( operating expenses ) at a slower rate than the growth of its net sales; and the priority of returns focuses on how efficiently the Company employs its assets as reflected in its return on investment
( ROI ) and how effectively the Company manages working capital as reflected in its free cash flow.         Growth
         Net Sales        
    Our consolidated net sales increased by 3.4% and 1.0% in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively, when compared to the
previous fiscal year. Net sales in fiscal 2011 increased primarily due to our continued expansion activities as we added 3.4% of additional retail square feet during fiscal 2011. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates favorably impacted our
fiscal 2011 sales growth by approximately $4.5 billion, offset by a 0.6% decline in total U.S. comparable store and club sales. Net sales in fiscal 2010 increased due to increased customer traffic, continued global expansion activities and the
acquisition of our Chilean subsidiary, Distribuci n y Servicio S.A. de C.V. ( D S ) in January 2009, offset primarily by a $9.8 billion unfavorable currency exchange rate impact in our Walmart International segment and adversely
affected by price deflation in certain merchandise categories in our Walmart U.S. segment. Volatility in currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Company s net sales in the future.   
   Calendar Comparable Store and Club Sales    
  Comparable store and club sales is a measure which indicates the performance of our existing U.S. stores and clubs by measuring the growth in sales for
such stores and clubs for a particular period over the corresponding period in the prior year.   
         4   

Comparable store and club sales, including fuel impact, for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 are as follows:       
    Comparable store and club sales in the
U.S., including fuel, decreased 0.6% and 0.8% in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively, and increased 3.5% in fiscal 2009. Total U.S. comparable store and club sales decreased during fiscal 2011 primarily due to a decline in customer traffic. Although
customer traffic increased in fiscal 2010, comparable store sales in the United States were lower than those in fiscal 2009 due to deflation in certain merchandise categories and lower fuel prices. As we continue to add new stores in the United
States, we do so with an understanding that additional stores may take sales away from existing units. We estimate the negative impact on comparable store sales as a result of opening new stores was approximately 0.8% in fiscal 2011, 0.6% in fiscal
2010 and 1.1% in fiscal 2009.         Leverage          Operating Income        
    We believe comparing the growth of our operating expenses to the growth of our net sales and comparing the growth of our
operating income to the growth of our net sales are meaningful measures as they indicate how effectively we manage costs and leverage operating expenses. Our objective is to grow operating expenses at a slower rate than net sales and to grow
operating income at a faster rate than net sales.       Operating Expenses       For fiscal 2011, we met our objective of growing operating expenses at a slower rate than net sales. Our operating expenses increased 1.7% in fiscal 2011 when compared to fiscal 2010, while net sales
increased 3.4% during fiscal 2011 when compared to fiscal 2010. Operating expenses grew at a slower rate than net sales due to improved labor productivity and organizational changes made at the end of fiscal 2010 designed to strengthen and
streamline our operations, as well as a reduction regarding certain incentive plan expenses. In fiscal 2010, we did not meet our objective of growing operating expenses at a slower rate than net sales. Our fiscal 2010 operating expenses increased
2.7% when compared to fiscal 2009, while net sales increased 1.0% over the same period. Operating expenses grew at a faster rate than net sales due to higher health benefit costs, restructuring charges and higher advertising expenses.   
   Operating Income       We met our objective
of growing operating income at a faster rate than net sales in each of the last two fiscal years. In fiscal 2011, our operating income increased by 6.4% when compared to fiscal 2010, while net sales increased by 3.4% over the same period in fiscal
2010. Our operating income increased by 5.4% in fiscal 2010 when compared to fiscal 2009, while net sales increased by 1.0% over the prior year. Our Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments met this objective in fiscal 2010. Our Sam s
Club segment fell short of this objective primarily due to a $174 million pre-tax charge relating to a restructure of its operations, including the closure of 10 clubs.   
         5   

Returns          Return on Investment       Management believes that return on investment is a meaningful metric
to share with investors because it helps investors assess how effectively Walmart is employing its assets. Trends in ROI can fluctuate over time as management balances long-term potential strategic initiatives with any possible short-term impacts.
ROI was relatively stable at 19.2 percent and 19.3 percent for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      We define
ROI as adjusted operating income (operating income plus interest income, depreciation and amortization, and rent expense) for the fiscal year divided by average invested capital during that period. We consider average invested capital to be the
average of our beginning and ending total assets of continuing operations plus accumulated depreciation and amortization less accounts payable and accrued liabilities for that period, plus a rent factor equal to the rent for the fiscal year
multiplied by a factor of eight.      ROI is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We consider return on assets ( ROA ) to be the
financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) that is the most directly comparable financial measure to ROI as we calculate that financial measure. ROI differs from ROA (which is income
from continuing operations for the fiscal year divided by average total assets of continuing operations for the period) because ROI: adjusts operating income to exclude certain expense items and adds interest income; adjusts total assets from
continuing operations for the impact of accumulated depreciation and amortization, accounts payable and accrued liabilities; and incorporates a factor of rent to arrive at total invested capital.   
  Although ROI is a standard financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating a company s ROI. As a result, the method used by management to
calculate ROI may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROI. We urge you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its ROI before comparing our ROI to that of such other company.   
  The calculation of ROI, along with a reconciliation to the calculation of ROA, the most comparable GAAP financial measurement, is as follows:   

         6   

(1)  
  The average is based on the addition of the account balance at the end of the current period to the account balance at the end of the prior period and dividing by 2.

(2)  
  Based on continuing operations only and therefore excludes the impact of discontinued operations. Total assets as of January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 in the table
above exclude assets of discontinued operations that are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets of $131 million, $140 million and $195 million, respectively.     

(3)  
  Effective May 1, 2010, the Company implemented a new financial system for its operations in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Concurrent with this
implementation and the increased system capabilities, the Company changed the level at which it applies the retail method of accounting for inventory in these operations from 13 divisions to 49 departments. See  Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements,  Note 2.  Accounting Change.          Free Cash Flow    
  We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities in a period minus payments for property and equipment made in that period. We
generated positive free cash flow of $10.9 billion, $14.1 billion and $11.6 billion for the years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decline in free cash flow during fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 is principally
due to our increased investment in inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. The increase in free cash flow in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 resulted primarily from improved operating results and relatively low
inventory levels at January 31, 2010.      Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. Management believes, however, that free
cash flow, which measures our ability to generate cash from our business operations, is an important financial measure for use in evaluating the Company s financial performance. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as
a substitute for, income from continuing operations as a measure of our performance and net cash provided by operating activities as a measure of our liquidity.   
         7   

Additionally, our definition of free cash flow is limited, in that it does not represent residual cash flows
available for discretionary expenditures due to the fact that the measure does not deduct the payments required for debt service and other contractual obligations or payments made for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to
view free cash flow as a measure that provides supplemental information to our entire statement of cash flows.      Although other companies
report their free cash flow, numerous methods may exist for calculating a company s free cash flow. As a result, the method used by our management to calculate free cash flow may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their
free cash flow. We urge you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its free cash flow before comparing our free cash flow to that of such other company.      The following table sets forth a reconciliation of free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, to net cash provided by operating activities, a GAAP measure, which we believe to be the GAAP financial
measure most directly comparable to free cash flow, as well as information regarding net cash used in investing activities and net cash used in financing activities.       
 
         8   

Results of Operations       The following discussion of our Results of Operations is based on our continuing operations and excludes any results or discussion of our discontinued operations.   
  Certain items that impacted our income from continuing operations during the fiscal years ended 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions):

(1)  
  In fiscal 2011, we recorded $434 million in net tax benefits that resulted primarily from the repatriation of certain non-U.S. earnings that increased U.S. foreign tax
credits and favorable adjustments to transfer pricing agreements.        In fiscal 2010, we recorded $372 million in
net tax benefits primarily from the repatriation of certain non-U.S. earnings that increased U.S. foreign tax credits.   

(2)  
  In fiscal 2010, we announced several organizational changes, including the closure of 10 Sam s Clubs, designed to strengthen and streamline our operations. As a
result, we recorded $260 million in pre-tax restructuring charges.     

(3)  
  In fiscal 2009, we settled 63 wage and hour class action lawsuits. As a result of the settlement, we recorded a pre-tax charge of approximately $382 million during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.          Consolidated Results of Operations     

(1)   
   Dollar amounts in millions      

(2)   
   Amounts in thousands         Our consolidated
net sales increased by 3.4% and 1.0% in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net sales in fiscal 2011 primarily increased due to our continued expansion activities as we added 3.4% of additional retail square feet during the year. In addition, $4.5
billion of the increase in net sales during fiscal 2011 resulted from currency exchange rate fluctuations, offset by a 0.6% decline in U.S. comparable store and club sales. Net sales in fiscal 2010 increased due to the growth in customer traffic,
continued global expansion activities and the acquisition of D S in January 2009, offset primarily by a $9.8 billion unfavorable currency exchange rate impact in our Walmart International segment and price deflation in certain merchandise
categories in our Walmart U.S. segment. Volatility in currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Company s net sales in the future.      Our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales (our  gross profit margin ), was 24.7%, 24.9% and 24.2% in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our Walmart U.S. segment and Walmart
International segment net sales yield higher gross profit margins than our Sam s Club segment, which operates on lower margins as a membership club warehouse. In fiscal 2011, gross profit margin was relatively flat compared to fiscal 2010. In
fiscal 2010, gross profit margin increased primarily due to enhanced merchandising strategies in our Walmart U.S. and Sam s Club segments.   
         9   

Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, were 19.3%, 19.7% and 19.3% for fiscal 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. In fiscal 2011, operating expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased primarily due to improved labor productivity and organizational changes implemented at the end of fiscal 2010 designed to strengthen and streamline our
operations, as well as a reduction in certain incentive plan expenses. In fiscal 2010, operating expenses increased primarily due to higher health benefit costs, a pre-tax charge of $260 million relating to the restructuring of U.S. operations, and
higher advertising expenses.      Operating income was $25.5 billion, $24.0 billion and $22.8 billion for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Operating income in fiscal 2011 was aided by $231 million due to the effects of currency exchange fluctuations. Operating income in fiscal 2010 was reduced by $540 million due to the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Volatility in currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Company s operating income in the future.      Our effective income tax rate
was 32.2%, 32.4% and 34.2% for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 provision for taxes include certain tax benefits that caused the effective tax rates for each of those two years to be less than the effective
tax rate in fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2011 and 2010, we recorded certain tax benefits totaling $434 million and $372 million, respectively, primarily from the repatriation of certain non-U.S. earnings that increased our U.S. foreign tax credits. We
expect the fiscal 2012 annual effective tax rate to be approximately 33.5% to 34.5%. Significant factors that may impact the annual effective tax rate include changes in our assessment of certain tax contingencies, settlement of tax contingencies
and the mix of earnings among our U.S. and international operations.      As a result of the factors discussed above, we reported $16.0 billion,
$15.0 billion and $13.7 billion of income from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.        Walmart U.S. Segment         

(1)   
   Dollar amounts in millions      

(2)   
   Amounts in thousands         Walmart U.S. net
sales were relatively flat for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 as growth in retail square feet was offset by a decline in comparable store sales of 1.5 percent as a result of slower customer traffic. The net sales growth in fiscal 2010 resulted
from an increase in customer traffic and strength in our grocery and health and wellness categories, as well as our continued expansion activities.      Gross profit margin was relatively flat for fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, gross profit margin increased 0.7 percentage points compared to the prior year due to enhanced
merchandising strategies and lower inventory shrinkage.      Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased by 0.3 percentage points
in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 due to expense leveraging principally related to improved labor productivity and a reduction in incentive plan expenses. Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased by 0.4 percentage points in
fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year due to a smaller increase in net sales as compared to the prior year, higher health benefit costs, higher advertising expenses and a pre-tax charge of $73 million relating to the restructuring of Walmart U.S.
operations.      As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income was $19.9 billion, $19.3 billion and $18.3 billion for fiscal 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         10   

Walmart International Segment     

(1)   
   Dollar amounts in millions      

(2)   
   Amounts in thousands         Net sales for the
Walmart International segment increased 12.1% and 1.3% in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates provided a favorable impact of $4.5 billion in fiscal 2011. The remaining fiscal 2011 increase in net sales is
primarily due to our markets growing constant currency sales over last year, as overall retail square feet increased 7.8% during the year. Brazil, China and Mexico contributed some of the highest sales increases to Walmart International s net
sales growth in fiscal 2011. The fiscal 2010 increase in the Walmart International segment s net sales primarily resulted from our expansion activities and the inclusion of the results of D S, acquired in January 2009, offset by the
unfavorable impact of changes in currency exchange rates of $9.8 billion. For additional information regarding our acquisitions, refer to Note 15 of the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Volatility in currency exchange rates
may continue to impact the Walmart International segment s net sales in the future.      Gross profit margin was relatively flat in fiscal
2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, the Walmart International segment s gross profit margin increased 0.2 percentage points compared to the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by currency exchange rate fluctuations and
the inclusion of D S, which was acquired in January 2009.      Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased 0.3 percentage
points in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 due to effective expense management in Japan and the United Kingdom. Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased 0.3 percentage points in fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year primarily
as a result of the inclusion of D S, which was acquired in January 2009.      Currency exchange rate fluctuations increased operating income
by $231 million in fiscal 2011 and reduced operating income by $540 million in fiscal 2010. Volatility in currency exchange rates may continue to impact the Walmart International segment s operating results in the future.   
  As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income was $5.6 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.8 billion for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.   
         11   

Sam s Club Segment     

(1)   
   Dollar amounts in millions       

(3)   
   Amounts in thousands          Net sales for the
Sam s Club segment increased 3.5% and decreased 0.4% for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. The fiscal 2011 growth in net sales is primarily due to the increase in average ticket and member traffic. Average ticket increased at a faster rate
than net sales. In addition, fuel sales, driven by higher fuel prices and gallons sold, positively impacted comparable club sales by 2.0 percentage points in fiscal 2011. The fiscal 2010 decrease in net sales primarily resulted from the decline in
comparable club sales due to the negative impact of 2.1 percentage points from lower fuel prices when compared to the previous fiscal year, partially offset by sales increases in fresh food, consumables and certain health and wellness categories.
Volatility in fuel prices may continue to impact the net sales and operating income of the Sam s Club segment in the future.      Gross
profit margin was relatively flat for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. Gross profit margin increased 0.6 percentage points during fiscal 2010 compared to the prior year due to continued strength in sales of consumables, fresh food and other
food-related categories.      Operating expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased approximately 0.5 percentage points in fiscal 2011
compared to fiscal 2010 and increased 0.8 percentage points in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 primarily due to the $174 million pre-tax charge related to the restructuring of Sam s Club operations, including the closure of 10 clubs,
incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010.      Membership and other income, as a percentage of net sales, decreased slightly in fiscal
2011 when compared to fiscal 2010 and decreased slightly for fiscal 2010 when compared to fiscal 2009. The decrease in both years was driven by decreases in other income.      As a result of the factors discussed above, operating income was $1.7 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         12   

Liquidity and Capital Resources       Cash flows provided by operating activities have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. We use these cash flows, supplemented with long-term debt and short-term borrowings, to
fund our operations and global expansion activities. Generally, some or all of the remaining free cash flow, if any, funds all or part of the dividends on our common stock and share repurchases.   
   
     Cash Flows from Operating Activities       Cash flows provided by operating activities was $23.6 billion, $26.2 billion and $23.1 billion for fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fiscal 2011 decrease in cash
flow from operating activities was primarily the result of our increased investments in inventories, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable. The fiscal 2010 increase in cash flows provided by operating activities was primarily
attributable to an increase in income from continuing operations and relatively low inventory levels at January 31, 2010.       Cash
Equivalents and Working Capital       Cash and cash equivalents were $7.4 billion and $7.9 billion at January 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Our working capital deficits were $6.6 billion and $7.5 billion at January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations and in
providing returns to our shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and the payment of dividends.       Cash Flows from Investing Activities
      Cash flows from investing activities generally consist of payments for property and equipment, which were $12.7 billion, $12.2 billion and
$11.5 billion during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These capital expenditures primarily relate to new store growth, as well as remodeling costs for existing stores. We expect capital expenditures for fiscal 2012 to range between $12.5
billion and $13.5 billion, excluding any business acquisitions.       Global Expansion Activities    
  We expect to finance our fiscal 2012 global expansion plans primarily through cash flows from operations and future debt financings. The following table
represents our estimated range for growth in retail square feet by segment for fiscal 2012. This table does not include growth in retail square feet from pending or future acquisitions.   

13   

The following table represents an allocation of our capital expenditures for property and equipment:
      
     Pending Business Acquisitions       As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company currently anticipates completing the following business combinations during fiscal 2012:   

Netto:  On May 27, 2010, the Company announced an agreement with Dansk Supermarked A/S, whereby ASDA, our subsidiary in the United Kingdom
( UK ), will purchase Netto Foodstores Limited. Netto operates 193 units, each averaging 8,000 square feet. On March 9, 2011, the UK Office of Fair Trading confirmed its clearance of ASDA s proposed purchase of Netto, subject to the
requirement that ASDA divests 47 Netto units. The original estimated purchase price was approximately  778 million ($1.2 billion), subject to finalizing any divestitures; and      

Massmart:  On November 29, 2010, the Company announced an offer to purchase 51% of Massmart for approximately ZAR 17 billion ($2.3 billion).
Massmart operates 288 units under several wholesale and retail banners in South Africa and 13 other sub-Saharan African countries. The transaction is subject to final regulatory approval.      
   Cash Flows from Financing Activities    
   Short-Term Borrowings       Net short-term
borrowings increased by $503 million in fiscal 2011, and decreased by $1.0 billion and $3.7 billion in fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. From time to time, we utilize the liquidity under our short-term borrowing programs to fund our operations,
dividend payments, share repurchases, capital expenditures, and for other cash requirements and corporate purposes on an as-needed basis.   
   Long-Term Debt       Proceeds from the
issuance of long-term debt were $11.4 billion, $5.5 billion, and $6.6 billion for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt were used to pay down or refinance existing
debt, and for other general corporate purposes.       Dividends       On March 3, 2011, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the annual dividend for fiscal 2012 to $1.46 per share, an increase of approximately 21% over the dividends paid in fiscal 2011.
Dividends per share were $1.21 and $1.09 in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the fiscal year ending January 31, 2012, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments according to the following record and payable dates:

14   

We paid dividends of $4.4 billion, $4.2 billion and $3.7 billion for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. We expect to pay aggregate dividends of approximately $5.1 billion in fiscal 2012.       Company Share Repurchase Program
      On June 3, 2010, the Board of Directors authorized a new $15.0 billion share repurchase program, which was announced on June 4,
2010. The program has no expiration date or other restriction limiting the period over which we can make our share repurchases and will expire only when and if we have repurchased $15.0 billion of our shares under the program or we earlier terminate
or replace the program. Any repurchased shares are constructively retired and returned to an unissued status. We spent approximately $14.8 billion, $7.3 billion and $3.5 billion for share repurchases during the fiscal years ended January 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We consider several factors in determining when to execute the share repurchases, including, among other things, our current cash needs, our capacity for leverage, our cost of borrowings and the market price of our
common stock. At January 31, 2011, we had approximately $4.8 billion of remaining authorization to spend for share repurchases under the existing program.       Capital Resources       Management believes cash flows from continuing operations and proceeds
from the issuance of short-term borrowings will be sufficient to finance seasonal buildups in merchandise inventories and meet other cash requirements. If our operating cash flows are not sufficient to pay dividends and to fund our capital
expenditures, we anticipate funding any shortfall in these expenditures with a combination of short-term borrowings and long-term debt. We plan to refinance existing long-term debt obligations as they mature and may desire to obtain additional
long-term financing for other corporate purposes.      Our access to the commercial paper and long-term debt markets have historically provided us
with substantial sources of liquidity. We anticipate no difficulty in obtaining financing from those markets in the future in view of our favorable experiences in the debt markets in the recent past. Our ability to continue to access the commercial
paper and long-term debt markets on favorable interest rate and other terms will depend, to a significant degree, on the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness continuing to be at or above the level of our current
ratings. At January 31, 2011, the ratings assigned to our commercial paper and rated series of our outstanding long-term debt were as follows:       

Rating agency    
      
   Commercial paper   
     
   Long-term debt    
 
    Standard   Poor s   
      
  A-1+  
     
  AA   
 
    Moody s Investors Service   
      
  P-1  
     
  Aa2   
 
    Fitch Ratings   
      
  F1+  
     
  AA   
 
    DBRS Limited   
      
  R-1(middle)  
     
  AA       In the event that the ratings of our
commercial paper or any rated series of our outstanding long-term debt issues were lowered or withdrawn for any reason or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of the Company s long-term debt securities were lower than those noted above, our
ability to access the debt markets would be adversely affected. In addition, in such a case, our cost of funds for new issues of commercial paper and long-term debt (i.e., the rate of interest on any such indebtedness) would be higher than our cost
of funds had the ratings of those new issues been at or above the level of the ratings noted above. The rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to
revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies.   
  To monitor our credit ratings and our capacity for long-term financing, we consider various qualitative and quantitative factors. We monitor the ratio of
our debt to our total capitalization as support for our long-term financing decisions. At January 31, 2011 and 2010, the ratio of our debt-to-total capitalization was 42.1% and 37.0%, respectively. For the purpose of this calculation, debt is
defined as the sum of short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, obligations under capital leases due within one year, long-term debt and long-term obligations under capital leases. Total capitalization is defined as debt plus total
Walmart shareholders  equity. Our ratio of debt to our total capitalization increased in fiscal 2011 resulting from an increase in long-term debt coupled with a decline in shareholders  equity primarily due to our increase in share
repurchases.   
         15   

Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments    
  The following table sets forth certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments, such as debt and lease
agreements, and certain contingent commitments:       
    Additionally, the Company has approximately $11.5 billion in undrawn lines of credit and standby letters of credit which, if
drawn upon, would be included in the liabilities section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets.      Estimated interest payments are based on our
principal amounts and expected maturities of all debt outstanding at January 31, 2011 and management s forecasted market rates for our variable rate debt.      Purchase obligations include legally binding contracts such as firm commitments for inventory and utility purchases, as well as commitments to make capital expenditures, software acquisition/license
commitments and legally binding service contracts. Purchase orders for the purchase of inventory and other services are not included in the table above. Purchase orders represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. For the
purposes of this table, contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased;
fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current inventory needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time periods. We also enter into contracts for
outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts are not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty.      The expected timing for payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid with respect to some unrecorded contractual
commitments may be different depending on the timing of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.   
  In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, $795 million of unrecognized tax benefits are considered uncertain tax positions and have been
recorded as liabilities. The timing of the payment associated with these liabilities is uncertain. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits.   
   Off Balance Sheet Arrangements       In
addition to the unrecorded contractual obligations discussed and presented above, the Company has made certain guarantees as discussed below for which the timing of payment, if any ,  is unknown.   
  In connection with certain debt financing, the Company could be liable for early termination payments if certain unlikely events were to occur. At
January 31, 2011, the aggregate termination payment would have been $84 million. The arrangement pursuant to which this payment could be made will expire in fiscal 2019.      The Company has future lease commitments for land and buildings for approximately 424 future locations. These lease commitments have lease terms ranging from 4 to 30 years and provide for certain minimum
rentals. If executed, payments under operating leases would increase by $109 million for fiscal 2012, based on current cost estimates.   
         16   

Market Risk       In addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and changes in currency exchange rates.   
  The analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and
does not represent our view of future market changes. The effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. In reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may
magnify or negate other sensitivities.       Interest Rate Risk       The table below provides information about the Company s financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the table represents the principal cash flows and
related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date. The notional amounts are used to
calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. The weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates at January 31, 2011.   
   
    As of January 31, 2011, our variable
rate borrowings, including the effect of our interest rate swaps, represented 15% of our total short-term and long-term debt. Based on January 31, 2011 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual
interest costs to change by approximately $59 million.       Foreign Currency Risk       We hold currency swaps to hedge the currency exchange component of our net investments in the United Kingdom. In fiscal 2010, we entered into currency swaps to hedge the currency exchange rate fluctuation
exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of non-U.S. denominated debt. The aggregate fair value of these swaps at January 31, 2011 and 2010 represented a gain of $471 million and $475 million, respectively. A
hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the currency exchange rates underlying these swaps from the market rate would have resulted in a loss or gain in the value of the swaps of $74 million and $58 million at January 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. A hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect at January 31, 2011 would have resulted in a loss or gain in value of the swaps of $7 million on the value of the swaps.
     In addition to currency swaps, we have designated debt of approximately  3.0 billion as of January 31, 2011 and 2010, as a hedge
of our net investment in the United Kingdom. At January 31, 2011 and 2010, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in value of the U.S. dollar relative to the British pound would have resulted in a gain or loss, respectively, in the value of
the debt of $480 million. In addition, we have designated debt of approximately  437.0 billion as of January 31, 2011 and 2010 as a hedge of our net investment in Japan. At January 31, 2011, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in
value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Japanese yen would have resulted in a gain or loss in the value of the debt of $533 million. At January 31, 2010, a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in value of the U.S. dollar relative to the
Japanese yen would have resulted in a gain or loss in the value of the debt of $485 million.   
         17   

Summary of Critical Accounting Policies       Management strives to report the financial results of the Company in a clear and understandable manner, although in some cases accounting and disclosure rules are complex and require us to use technical
terminology. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we follow accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles require us to make certain estimates and apply judgments that affect our financial position
and results of operations as reflected in our financial statements. These judgments and estimates are based on past events and expectations of future outcomes. Actual results may differ from our estimates.   
  Management continually reviews the Company s accounting policies, how they are applied and how they are reported and disclosed in our financial
statements. Following is a summary of our more significant accounting policies and how they are applied in preparation of the financial statements.        Inventories        The Company values inventories at the lower of cost or market as
determined primarily by the retail method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method for substantially all of the Walmart U.S. segment s merchandise inventories. The retail method of accounting results in inventory
being valued at the lower of cost or market since permanent markdowns are currently taken as a reduction of the retail value of inventory. The Sam s Club segment s merchandise is valued based on the weighted-average cost using the LIFO
method. Inventories for the Walmart International operations are primarily valued by the retail method of accounting and are stated using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method. At January 31, 2011 and 2010, our inventories valued at
LIFO approximated those inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.      Under the retail method, inventory is stated at cost, which is determined
by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to each merchandise grouping s retail value. The FIFO cost-to-retail ratio is based on the initial margin of beginning inventory plus the fiscal year purchase activity. The cost-to-retail ratio for measuring
any LIFO reserves is based on the initial margin of the fiscal year purchase activity less the impact of any markdowns. The retail method requires management to make certain judgments and estimates that may significantly impact the ending inventory
valuation at cost, as well as the amount of gross profit recognized. Judgments made include recording markdowns used to sell through inventory and shrinkage. When management determines the salability of inventory has diminished, markdowns for
clearance activity and the related cost impact are recorded at the time the price change decision is made. Factors considered in the determination of markdowns include current and anticipated demand, customer preferences and age of merchandise, as
well as seasonal and fashion trends. Changes in weather patterns and customer preferences related to fashion trends could cause material changes in the amount and timing of markdowns from year to year.   
  When necessary, the Company records a LIFO provision for a quarter for the estimated annual effect of inflation, and these estimates are adjusted to
actual results determined at year-end. Our LIFO provision is calculated based on inventory levels, markup rates and internally generated retail price indices. At January 31, 2011 and 2010, our inventories valued at LIFO approximated those
inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.      The Company provides for estimated inventory losses ( shrinkage ) between physical
inventory counts on the basis of a percentage of sales. The provision is adjusted annually based on historical results to reflect the estimated trend of the actual physical inventory count results.   
  As discussed in Note 2, effective May 1, 2010, the Company changed the level at which it applies the retail method for valuing its inventory for its
operations in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. The retrospective application of this accounting change impacted both segment and consolidated operating income, as well as consolidated net income for all comparable periods presented.
       Impairment of Assets     
  We evaluate long-lived assets other than goodwill and assets with indefinite lives for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Management s judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on market conditions and operational performance, such as operating income and cash flows.
The evaluation for long-lived assets is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is generally at the individual store level or, in certain circumstances, at the market group level. The variability of these factors depends on a
number of conditions, including uncertainty about future events and changes in demographics. Thus, our accounting estimates may change from period to period. These factors could cause management to conclude that impairment indicators exist and
require impairment tests be performed, which could result in management determining the value of long-lived assets is impaired, resulting in a write-down of the long-lived assets.   
         18   

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets are not amortized, but are evaluated for
impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the value of a certain asset may be impaired. This evaluation requires management to make judgments relating to future cash flows, growth rates, and economic and market
conditions. These evaluations are based on determining the fair value of a reporting unit or asset using a valuation method such as discounted cash flow or a relative, market-based approach. Historically, the Company has generated sufficient returns
to recover the cost of goodwill and other indefinite-lived acquired intangible assets. Because of the nature of the factors used in these tests, if different conditions occur in future periods, future operating results could be materially impacted.
       Income Taxes        The
determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and
taxable items and the probability of sustaining uncertain tax positions. The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the uncertain tax positions will
withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities. When facts and circumstances change, we reassess these probabilities and record any changes in the financial statements as appropriate. We account for uncertain tax positions by determining the
minimum recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. This determination requires the use of judgment in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items.
       Self-Insurance        We
use a combination of third-party insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including, but not limited to, workers  compensation, general liability, vehicle liability, property and the Company s obligation
for employee-related health care benefits. Liabilities associated with any claims are estimated by considering historical claims experience, including frequency, severity, demographic factors and other actuarial assumptions. In calculating our
liability, we analyze our historical trends, including loss development, and apply appropriate loss development factors to the incurred costs associated with the claims made against our self-insured program. The estimated accruals for these
liabilities could be significantly affected if future occurrences or loss development differ from these assumptions. For example, for our workers  compensation and general liability accrual, a 1% increase or decrease to the assumptions for
claims costs or loss development factors would increase or decrease our self-insurance accrual by $27 million.   
         19   

Forward-Looking Statements       This Annual Report contains statements that Walmart believes are  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Those
statements are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by that Act. Those forward-looking statements include statements in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations: under the captions  Company Performance Metrics   Growth     Net Sales   and  Results of Operations  Consolidated Results of Operations   with respect to the volatility of
currency exchange rates possibly continuing to affect Walmart s net sales in the future; under the caption  Results of Operations  Consolidated Results of Operations   with respect to the volatility of currency exchange
rates possibly continuing to affect Walmart s operating income in the future and with respect to Walmart s fiscal 2012 annual effective tax rate and the factors that may impact that annual effective tax rate; under the caption
 Results of Operations  Walmart International Segment   with respect to the volatility of currency exchange rates possibly continuing to affect our Walmart International segment s net sales and operating results in the
future; under the caption  Results of Operations  Sam s Club Segment   with respect to the volatility of fuel prices possibly continuing to affect our Sam s Club segment s net sales and operating income in the
future; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Flows from Investing Activities   with respect to Walmart s expected capital expenditures in fiscal 2012; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital
Resources  Cash Flows from Investing Activities   Global Expansion Activities   with respect to Walmart s expectation that it will finance its fiscal 2012 global expansion plans primarily through cash flows from
operations and future debt financings, with respect to Walmart s expected capital expenditures in fiscal 2012, with respect to the estimated/projected growth in retail square feet in total and by operating segment in fiscal 2012 and with
respect to the allocation of capital expenditures for property and equipment in fiscal 2012; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Flows from Investing Activities   Pending Business Acquisitions  , as
well as in Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, with respect to Walmart s expected consummation of certain acquisitions in fiscal 2012; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Cash Flows from Financing
Activities   Dividends ,  as well as in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements and elsewhere under the caption  Dividends payable per share , regarding the payment of dividends in fiscal 2011 with respect to
Walmart s expected payment of dividends on certain dates in fiscal 2012 and the expected total amount of dividends to be paid in fiscal 2012; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  Capital Resources   with
respect to Walmart s ability to finance seasonal build-ups in inventories and to meet other cash requirements with cash flows from operations and short-term borrowings, Walmart s ability to fund certain cash flow shortfalls by short-term
borrowings and long-term debt, Walmart s plan to refinance long-term debt as it matures, Walmart s anticipated funding of any shortfall in cash to pay dividends and make capital expenditures through short-term borrowings and long-term
debt, Walmart s plan to refinance existing long-term debt as it matures and may obtain additional long-term financing for other corporate purposes, Walmart s ability to obtain financing from the commercial paper and long-term debt markets,
the factors that influence Walmart s ability to access those markets on favorable terms and the factors that could adversely affect Walmart s ability to access those markets on favorable terms; under the caption  Liquidity and Capital
Resources  Off Balance Sheet Arrangements   with respect to the amount of increases in payments under operating leases if certain leases are executed; and under the caption  Market Risk  regarding future cash flows regarding
certain instruments. These forward-looking statements also include statements in: Note 4 to our Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the weighted-average periods over which certain compensation cost is expected to be recognized; Note 10 to
our Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the possible reduction of U.S. tax liability on accumulated but undistributed earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, the realization of certain deferred tax assets, possible reduction of unrecognized
tax benefits, the reasons for such reductions and the magnitude of their impact on our results of operations and financial condition, and the possibility that the resolution of certain non-U.S. federal income tax matters could result in a material
liability for us; Note 12 regarding an adverse decision in, or settlement of, certain litigation to which Walmart is a party possibly resulting in liability adverse to Walmart; and Note 14 regarding a charge as to a benefit plan being recorded in
the first quarter of fiscal 2012 . In addition, these statements include a statement in the material in this Annual Report entitled  Our Financial Priorities  relating to Walmart s expectation as to the growth of its net sales and the
methods of that growth. The letter of our President and Chief Executive Officer appearing in this Annual Report includes forward-looking statements that relate to: management s expectation that sales momentum for Walmart s Sam s Club
segment will continue in fiscal 2012, Walmart s Global Customer Insight Group helping drive growth and Walmart continuing to leverage its resources, lower costs and increasing its speed to market. Forward-looking statements appear in this
Annual Report under the heading  Walmart Leveraging our foundation to reach more American families  and relate to management s expectations regarding implementation of a four-point plan to improve comparable stores sales, opening
our Walmart U.S. segment s first convenience format stores in the second quarter of fiscal 2012 and the size of, and merchandise to be sold in, those stores, and that top line sales growth will further enhance the Walmart U.S. segment s
ability to drive expense leverage. In addition, a forward-looking statement appears in this Annual Report under the heading  Walmart International Driving aggressive global growth and increased leverage  regarding management s
expectation for growth in the Walmart International segment in fiscal 2012, both through growth in square footage in current markets and through investments in certain formats in emerging markets. Moreover, a forward-looking statement appears under
the heading  Sam s Club Delivering growth through Savings Made Simple  and relates to management s expectations for our Sam s Club segment that new merchandise items will be added and that initiatives are on the way to
help the Sam s segment better leverage its expenses in fiscal 2012. The forward-looking statements described above are identified by the use in such statements of one or more of the words or phrases  anticipate,   could be, 
 could reduce,   estimated,   expansion,   expect,   grow,   is expected,   is implementing,   may be reduced,   may continue,   may impact, 
 may result,   on the way,   projected,   will be,   will be paid,   will be recorded,   will continue,   will depend,    will further enhance,   will
expand,   will help drive,   will open,    would be,  and  would increase,  and other similar words or phrases. Similarly, descriptions of our objectives, strategies, plans, goals or targets are also
forward-looking statements. These statements discuss, among other things, expected growth, future revenues, future cash flows, future capital expenditures, future performance, future initiatives and the anticipation and expectations of Walmart and
its management as to future occurrences and trends.   
         20   

The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report and that we make elsewhere are subject to
certain factors, in the United States and internationally, could materially affect our financial performance, our results of operations, including our sales, earnings per share or comparable store sales or comparable club sales for any period, our
effective tax rate, business operations, business strategy, plans, goals and objectives. These factors include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including changes in the economy of the United States or other countries, economic
instability, changes in the monetary policies of the United States, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, other governments or central banks, the current economic crisis and disruptions in the financial markets, including as a result
of sovereign debt crises, governmental budget deficits, unemployment levels, credit availability to consumers and businesses, levels of consumer disposable income, consumer confidence, consumer spending patterns and debt levels, inflation,
deflation, the cost of the goods we sell, labor costs, transportation costs, the cost of diesel fuel, gasoline, natural gas and electricity, the cost of healthcare benefits, accident costs, our casualty and other insurance costs, information
security costs, the cost of construction materials, availability of acceptable building sites for new stores, clubs and other formats, competitive pressures, accident-related costs, weather patterns, catastrophic events, storm and other damage to
our stores and distribution centers, weather-related closing of stores, availability and transport of goods from domestic and foreign suppliers, currency exchange fluctuations and volatility, trade restrictions, changes in tariff and freight rates,
adoption of or changes in tax, labor and other laws and regulations that affect our business, costs of compliance with laws and regulations, the resolution of tax matters, the outcome of legal proceedings to which we are a party, interest rate
fluctuations, and other capital market, economic and geo-political conditions and events, including civil unrest and terrorist attacks. Moreover, we typically earn a disproportionate part of our annual operating income in the fourth quarter as a
result of the seasonal buying patterns. Those buying patterns are difficult to forecast with certainty. The foregoing list of factors that may affect our performance is not exclusive. Other factors and unanticipated events could adversely affect our
business operations and financial performance. We discuss certain of these matters more fully, as well as certain risk factors that may affect our business operations, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in other of our filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K. We filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2011, with the SEC on March 30, 2011. The forward-looking
statements described above are made based on knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate. However, because of the factors described and listed above, as well as other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not
being realized or other circumstance, actual results may materially differ from anticipated results described or implied in these forward-looking statements. We cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us
will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business or our operations in the way we expect. You are urged to consider all of these risks,
uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements and not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report speak only as of the date of
this report, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances, except as may be required by applicable law.   
         21   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   Consolidated Statements of Income        
     See accompanying notes.
   
         22   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   Consolidated Balance Sheets        
     See accompanying notes.    
         23   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity    
   
     See accompanying notes.        WAL-MART STORES, INC.        Comprehensive Income    

See accompanying notes.    
         24   

WAL-MART STORES, INC.    
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        
     See accompanying notes.
   
         25   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.        Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
        General        Wal-Mart
Stores, Inc. ( Walmart,  the  Company  or  we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world, aggregated into three reportable segments: (1) the Walmart U.S. segment; (2) the Walmart
International segment; and (3) the Sam s Club segment. We are committed to saving people money so they can live better. We earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at
every day low prices ( EDLP ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our
prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Our fiscal year ends on January 31.        Principles of Consolidation
       The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries. All material intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which are 50% or less owned and do not meet the consolidation criteria of Topic 810 of the Financial Accounting Standards Codification
( ASC ) are accounted for using the equity method. These investments are immaterial to our consolidated financial statements.      The
Company s operations in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, India, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua and the United Kingdom are consolidated using a December 31 fiscal year-end, generally due to statutory
reporting requirements. There were no significant intervening events during January 2011 which materially affected the consolidated financial statements. The Company s operations in the United States and Canada are consolidated using a
January 31 fiscal year-end.        Use of Estimates        The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Those principles require management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. Management s estimates and assumptions also affect the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from those estimates.        Cash and Cash Equivalents
       The Company considers investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. All credit card,
debit card and EBT transactions that process in less than seven days are classified as cash and cash equivalents. The amounts due from banks for these transactions classified as cash totaled $1.2 billion and $2.6 billion at January 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. In addition, cash and cash equivalents includes restricted cash related to cash collateral holdings from various counterparties as required by certain derivative and trust agreements of $504 million and $469 million at
January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.        Receivables        Receivables consist primarily of amounts due from:       

insurance companies resulting from our pharmacy sales;      

banks for customer credit card, debit card and electronic bank transfers that take in excess of seven days to process;      

suppliers for marketing or incentive programs;          

consumer financing programs in certain international subsidiaries; and      

real estate transactions.      
  We establish a reserve for uncollectible receivables based on historical trends in collection of past due amounts and write-off history. Our overall
reserve for uncollectible receivables was $252 million and $298 million at January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
         26   

Our Walmart International segment offers a limited amount of consumer credit products, principally through
our subsidiaries in Chile, Canada and Mexico. At January 31, 2011, the balance of these receivables was $673 million, net of its reserve for doubtful accounts of $83 million, and is included in receivables, net on the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet.        Inventories        The Company values inventories at the lower of cost or market as determined primarily by the retail method of accounting, using the last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method for substantially all of
the Walmart U.S. segment s merchandise inventories. The retail method of accounting results in inventory being valued at the lower of cost or market since permanent markdowns are currently taken as a reduction of the retail value of inventory.
The Sam s Club segment s merchandise is valued based on the weighted-average cost using the LIFO method. Inventories for the Walmart International operations are primarily valued by the retail method of accounting and are stated using the
first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method. At January 31, 2011 and 2010, our inventories valued at LIFO approximate those inventories as if they were valued at FIFO.      As discussed in Note 2, effective May 1, 2010, the Company changed the level at which it applies the retail method for valuing inventory for its operations in the United States, Canada, and Puerto
Rico. The retrospective application of this accounting change impacted both segment and consolidated operating income, as well as consolidated net income for all comparable periods presented.        Property and Equipment        Property and equipment are stated at cost. Gains or losses
on disposition are recognized as earned or incurred. Costs of major improvements are capitalized, while costs of normal repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. Property and equipment are generally depreciated over the following
estimated useful lives on a straight-line basis:       

Buildings and improvements   

3 40 years  

Fixtures and equipment   

3 25 years  

Transportation equipment   

4 15 years  
           Leasehold improvements are
depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the remaining expected lease term. If significant expenditures are made for leasehold improvements late in the expected term of a lease and renewal is reasonably assured, the
useful life of the leasehold improvement is limited to the end of the renewal period or economic life of the asset, whichever is shorter. Depreciation expense, including amortization of property under capital leases, for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and
2009 was $7.6 billion, $7.2 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively.        Capitalized Interest     
  The interest costs associated with construction projects are capitalized and included as part of the cost of the project. When no debt is incurred
specifically for a project, interest is capitalized on amounts expended on the project using our weighted-average cost of borrowing. Capitalization of interest ceases when the project is substantially complete. Interest costs capitalized on
construction projects were $63 million, $85 million and $88 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.        Long-Lived Assets
       Long-lived assets are stated at cost. Management reviews long-lived assets for indicators of impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The evaluation is performed at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which is at the individual store level or in certain circumstances a market group of stores.
Undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the related assets are estimated over the asset s useful life based on updated projections. If the evaluation indicates that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable, any
potential impairment is measured based upon the fair value of the related asset or asset group as determined by an appropriate market appraisal or other valuation technique.        Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets        Goodwill represents the excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations and is allocated to the appropriate segment when acquired. Other acquired intangible assets are stated at the fair value acquired as determined by a valuation
technique commensurate with the intended use of the related asset. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized; rather, they are evaluated for impairment annually during our fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the value of the asset may be impaired. Definite-lived intangible assets are considered long-lived assets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the periods that expected economic benefits will be provided.
  
         27   

Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by determining the fair value of the related reporting unit. Fair value
is measured based on discounted cash flow method and relative market-based approaches. The analyses require significant management judgment to evaluate the capacity of an acquired business to perform within projections. The Company has not recorded
impairment charges related to goodwill.      The following table reflects goodwill activity, by operating segment, for fiscal years 2011 and 2010:
      
    During fiscal 2011, Walmart U.S. completed an immaterial business acquisition that resulted in the recognition of $32
million in goodwill.      Indefinite-lived intangible assets are included in other assets and deferred charges on the accompanying Consolidated
Balance Sheets. These assets are evaluated for impairment based on their fair values using valuation techniques which are updated annually based on the most recent variables and assumptions. There were no impairment charges related to
indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded during the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.        Self-Insurance Reserves
       The Company uses a combination of insurance, self-insured retention and self-insurance for a number of risks, including, but not
limited to, workers  compensation, general liability, vehicle liability, property and the Company s obligation for employee-related health care benefits. Liabilities relating to these claims associated with these risks are estimated by
considering historical claims experience, including frequency, severity, demographic factors, and other actuarial assumptions. In estimating our liability for such claims, we periodically analyze our historical trends, including loss development,
and apply appropriate loss development factors to the incurred costs associated with the claims. See Note 6.   
         28   

Income Taxes        Income taxes are accounted for under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rate is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets
to the amounts more likely than not to be realized.      The Company records a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain
tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The Company records interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in interest expense and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively, in the
Company s Consolidated Statements of Income.        Revenue Recognition        The Company recognizes sales revenue net of sales taxes and estimated sales returns at the time it sells merchandise to the customer. Customer purchases of shopping cards are not recognized as revenue
until the card is redeemed and the customer purchases merchandise by using the shopping card. The Company also recognizes revenue from service transactions at the time the service is performed. Generally, revenue from services is classified as a
component of net sales on our Consolidated Statements of Income.        Sam s Club Membership Fee Revenue Recognition     
  The Company recognizes Sam s Club membership fee revenue both in the United States and internationally over the term of the membership, which is 12
months. The following table summarizes membership fee activity for each of the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009.       
    Sam s Club membership fee revenue is included in membership and other income in the revenues section of the
accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. The deferred membership fee is included in accrued liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.        Cost of Sales        Cost of sales includes actual product cost, the cost of
transportation to the Company s warehouses, stores and clubs from suppliers, the cost of transportation from the Company s warehouses to the stores and clubs and the cost of warehousing for our Sam s Club segment and import
distribution centers.        Payments from Suppliers        Walmart receives money from suppliers for various programs, primarily volume incentives, warehouse allowances and reimbursements for specific programs such as markdowns, margin protection and advertising.
Substantially all payments from suppliers are accounted for as a reduction of inventory purchases and recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income when the related inventory is sold.        Operating, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses        Operating, selling, general
and administrative expenses include all operating costs of the Company, except those costs related to the transportation of products from the supplier to the warehouses, stores or clubs, the costs related to the transportation of products from the
warehouses to the stores or clubs and the cost of warehousing for our Sam s Club segment and import distribution centers. As a result, the majority of the cost of warehousing and occupancy for our Walmart U.S. and Walmart International
segments  distribution facilities is included in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses. Because we do not include most of the cost of our Walmart U.S. and Walmart International segments  distribution facilities in cost of
sales, our gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of net sales (our  gross profit margin ) may not be comparable to those of other retailers that may include all costs related to their distribution facilities in cost of sales and in
the calculation of gross profit.   
         29   

Advertising Costs        Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and were $2.5 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.1 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Advertising costs consist primarily of print, television and
digital advertisements. Advertising reimbursements received from suppliers are generally accounted for as a reduction of purchases and recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income when the related inventory is sold.   
    Leases        The Company estimates the
expected term of a lease by assuming the exercise of renewal options where an economic penalty exists that would preclude the abandonment of the lease at the end of the initial non-cancelable term and the exercise of such renewal is at the sole
discretion of the Company. This expected term is used in the determination of whether a store or club lease is a capital or operating lease and in the calculation of straight-line rent expense. Additionally, the useful life of leasehold improvements
is limited by the expected lease term or the economic life of the asset, whichever is shorter. If significant expenditures are made for leasehold improvements late in the expected term of a lease and renewal is reasonably assured, the useful life of
the leasehold improvement is limited to the end of the renewal period or economic life of the asset, whichever is shorter.      Rent abatements
and escalations are considered in the calculation of minimum lease payments in the Company s capital lease tests and in determining straight-line rent expense for operating leases.        Pre-Opening Costs        The costs of start-up activities, including organization costs,
related to new store openings, store remodels, expansions and relocations are expensed as incurred and included in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Pre-opening costs totaled $320
million, $227 million and $289 million for the years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.        Currency Translation
       The assets and liabilities of all international subsidiaries are translated from the respective local currency to the U.S. dollar
using exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The income statements of international subsidiaries are translated from the respective local currencies to the U.S. dollar using average exchange rates for the period covered by the income statements.
Related translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).        Reclassifications
       In connection with the Company s finance transformation project, we reviewed and adjusted the classification of certain revenue
and expense items within our Consolidated Statements of Income for financial reporting purposes. The reclassifications did not impact operating income or consolidated net income attributable to Walmart. The changes were effective February 1,
2010 and have been reflected in all periods presented.        Recent Accounting Pronouncements     
  A new accounting standard, effective for and adopted by the Company on February 1, 2010, changes the approach to determining the primary beneficiary
of a variable interest entity ( VIE ) and requires companies to assess more frequently whether they must consolidate VIEs. The adoption of this new standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
      Note 2. Accounting Change    
  Effective May 1, 2010, the Company implemented a new financial system for its operations in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Concurrent
with this implementation and the increased system capabilities, the Company changed the level at which it applies the retail method of accounting for inventory in these operations from 13 divisions to 49 departments. The Company believes the change
is preferable because applying the retail method of accounting for inventory at the departmental level better segregates merchandise with similar cost-to-retail ratios and turnover, as well as providing a more accurate cost of goods sold and ending
inventory value at the lower of cost or market for each reporting period. The retrospective application of this accounting change impacted both segment and consolidated operating income, as well as consolidated net income for all comparable periods
presented.   
         30   

The retrospective application of the accounting change impacted the following financial statement line
items:       

(1)   
        The cost of sales
adjustments includes $(52) million and $31 million pertaining to the accounting change for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Certain reclassifications that had no effect on operating income or on the consolidated
net income attributable to Walmart represent the remainder of the amounts included in the cost of sales adjustment columns above.          
     Note 3. Net Income Per Common
Share       Basic net income per common share attributable to Walmart is based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares.
Diluted net income per common share attributable to Walmart is based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares adjusted for the dilutive effect of share-based awards. The dilutive effect of share-based awards was 14 million,
11 million and 12 million shares in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company had approximately 4 million, 5 million and 6 million stock options outstanding at January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively,
which were not included in the diluted net income per common share calculation because their effect would be antidilutive.      For purposes of
determining consolidated net income per common share attributable to Walmart, income from continuing operations attributable to Walmart and the income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, are as follows:   

31   

Note 4. Share-Based Compensation       As of January 31, 2011, the Company has awarded share-based compensation to executives and other associates of the Company through various share-based compensation plans. The compensation cost
recognized for all plans was $371 million, $335 million and $302 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Virtually all of our share-based compensation costs are classified as operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in
the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. The total income tax benefit recognized for all share-based compensation plans was $141 million, $126 million and $112 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table
summarizes our share-based compensation expense by award type:       
    The Company s shareholder-approved Stock Incentive Plan of 2010 (the  Plan ), which amended and restated the
Company s Stock Incentive Plan of 2005, effective June 4, 2010, was established to grant stock options, restricted (non-vested) stock, performance shares and other equity compensation awards to its associates and nonemployee directors for
which 210 million shares of common stock issued or to be issued under the Plan have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company believes that such awards serve to align the interests of its associates with those of
its shareholders.      Under the Plan and prior plans, substantially all stock option awards have been granted with an exercise price equal to the
market price of the Company s stock at the date of grant. Options granted generally vest over five years and have a contractual term of 10 years.      The Company s United Kingdom subsidiary, ASDA, also offers two other stock option plans to its colleagues. The first plan, the ASDA Colleague Share Ownership Plan 1999 (the  CSOP ), grants
options to certain colleagues. The initial CSOP grants have both a three-year and a six-year vesting with subsequent grants vesting over six years. The CSOP shares have an exercise period of two months immediately following the vesting date. The
second plan, the ASDA Sharesave Plan 2000 (the  Sharesave Plan ), grants options to certain colleagues at 80% of the average market value of the three days preceding the date of grant. Sharesave options become exercisable after three years
and generally expire six months after becoming exercisable. A combined 49 million shares of common stock were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for issuance upon the exercise of stock options granted under the CSOP and
the Sharesave Plan.       Restricted Stock and Performance Share Awards       Under the Plan, the Company grants various types of awards of restricted stock to certain associates. These grants include awards for shares that vest based on the passage of time, performance criteria,
or both. Vesting periods vary. Restricted stock awards granted before January 1, 2008 may be settled in stock, or deferred as stock or cash, based upon the associate s election. Consequently, these awards are classified as liabilities in
the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, unless the associate has elected for the award to be settled or deferred in stock. Restricted stock awards issued in fiscal 2009 and thereafter generally are settled or deferred in stock.   
  Performance share awards under the Plan vest based on the passage of time and achievement of performance criteria. Based on the extent to which the
targets are achieved, vested shares may range from 0% to 150% of the original award amount. Because the performance shares issued before January 1, 2008 may be settled in stock or cash, the performance shares are included in accrued liabilities
and deferred income taxes and other in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, unless the associate has elected for the award to be settled or deferred in stock. Beginning in fiscal 2009, performance shares issued are settled or deferred in
stock; therefore, they are accounted for as equity in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The fair value of performance share awards accounted for as equity is determined on the date of grant using the stock price discounted for the
expected dividend yield through the vesting period and is recognized ratably over the vesting period.      The fair value of the restricted stock
and performance share liabilities is remeasured each reporting period. The total liability for restricted stock and performance share awards at January 31, 2011 and 2010 was $12 million and $63 million, respectively.   
         32   

A summary of the Company s restricted stock and performance share award activity for fiscal 2011
presented below represents the maximum number of shares that could be earned or vested under the Plan (in thousands, except per share prices):       
    As of January 31, 2011, there was $331 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock and
performance share awards granted under the Plan, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years. The total fair value of shares vested during the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $142
million, $110 million and $55 million, respectively.       Restricted Stock Rights       In fiscal 2007, the Company began issuing restricted stock rights to most associates in lieu of stock option awards. Restricted stock rights are associate rights to Company stock after a specified service
period. Grants issued before fiscal 2009 typically vest over five years with 40% vesting three years from grant date and the remaining 60% vesting five years from grant date. Beginning in fiscal 2009, the vesting schedule was adjusted for new grants
to 50% vesting three years from grant date and the remaining 50% vesting five years from grant date. The fair value of each restricted stock right is determined on the date of grant using the stock price discounted for the expected dividend yield
through the vesting period and is recognized ratably over the vesting period. Expected dividend yield over the vesting period is based on the expected dividend yield rate over the life of the grant. The weighted-average discount for the dividend
yield used to determine the fair value of restricted stock rights granted in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 9.1%, 8.5% and 6.8%, respectively.   
  A summary of the Company s restricted stock rights activity for fiscal 2011 presented below represents the maximum number of shares that could be
earned or vested under the Plan (in thousands, except per share prices):       
    As of January 31, 2011, there was $397 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock
rights granted under the Plan, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years. The fair value of the restricted stock rights vested in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $50 million, $49 million, and $0 million,
respectively.       Stock Options    
  The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option valuation model that uses various
assumptions for inputs, which are noted in the following table. Generally, the Company uses expected volatilities and risk-free interest rates that correlate with the expected term of the option when estimating an option s fair value. To
determine the expected life of the option, the Company bases its estimates on historical exercise and expiration activity of grants with similar vesting periods. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of our stock. The expected
risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve at the time of the grant. The expected dividend yield over the vesting period is based on the expected dividend yield rate over the life of the grant. The following table represents
the weighted-average assumptions used by the Company to estimate the fair values of the Company s stock options at the grant dates:       
 
         33   

Stock options granted during fiscal 2011 were primarily issued under the Sharesave Plan. A summary of the
stock option award activity for fiscal 2011 is presented below (in thousands, except years and per share prices):       
    As of January 31, 2011, there was $42 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options granted
under the Plan, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years. The following table includes additional information related to stock options:   
   
     Note 5. Restructuring Charges
      In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company announced several organizational changes, including the closure of 10 Sam s Clubs,
designed to strengthen and streamline our operations. As a result, the Company recorded $260 million in pre-tax restructuring charges as follows:       
    The asset impairment charges generally relate to the real estate of the Sam s Club closures, which was written down to
their estimated fair value of $46 million. The fair value was determined based on comparable market values of similar properties or on a rental income approach, using Level 2 inputs of the three-tier fair value hierarchy discussed in Note 8.
     The pre-tax restructuring charges of $260 million are classified in operating, selling, general and administrative expenses on the
accompanying Consolidated Statement of Income for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. At January 31, 2010, we had $127 million of severance costs included in accrued liabilities on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet. These
severance costs were paid during fiscal 2011.   
         34   

Note 6. Accrued Liabilities       Accrued liabilities consist of the following:       

(1)  
  Accrued wages and benefits include accrued wages, salaries, vacation, bonuses and other incentive plans.     

(2)  
  Self-insurance consists of all insurance-related liabilities, such as workers  compensation, general liability, vehicle liability, property and employee related
health care benefits.     

(3)  
  Other accrued liabilities consists of various items such as accrued taxes, maintenance, utilities, advertising, interest, and severance liabilities.
        Note 7. Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt       Information on short-term borrowings and interest rates is as follows:       
    Short-term borrowings consist of
commercial paper and lines of credit. Short-term borrowings outstanding at January 31, 2011 and 2010 were $1.0 billion and $523 million, respectively. The Company has certain lines of credit totaling $11.5 billion, most of which were undrawn as
of January 31, 2011 and is committed with 28 financial institutions. In conjunction with these lines of credit, the Company has agreed to observe certain covenants, the most restrictive of which relates to maximum amounts of secured debt and
long-term leases. Committed lines of credit are primarily used to support commercial paper. The portion of committed lines of credit used to support commercial paper remained undrawn as of January 31, 2011. The committed lines of credit mature
at various times between June 2011 and June 2012, carry interest rates in some cases equal to the Company s one-year credit default swap mid-rate spread and is constricted between LIBOR plus 10 basis and LIBOR plus 75 basis points, and incur
commitment fees of 2.5 to 10.0 basis points.      The Company had trade letters of credit outstanding totaling $2.6 billion and $2.4 billion at
January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At January 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had standby letters of credit outstanding totaling $2.0 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. These letters of credit were issued primarily for the
purchase of inventory and self-insurance purposes.   
         35   

Long-term debt consists of the following:   

(1)   
   The average rate represents the weighted-average stated rate for each corresponding debt category, based on year-end balances and year-end local currency interest
rates. Our interest costs are also impacted by certain derivative financial instruments described in Note 9.      

(2)   
   A portion of other debt includes secured debt in the amount of $303 million, which is collateralized by property with an aggregate carrying amount of approximately
$1.1 billion.         The Company has $500 million in debt with embedded put options. The issuance of money market puttable reset
securities in the amount of $500 million is structured to be remarketed in connection with the annual reset of the interest rate. If, for any reason, the remarketing of the notes does not occur at the time of any interest rate reset, the holders of
the notes must sell, and the Company must repurchase, the notes at par. This issuance has been classified as long-term debt due within one year in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Annual maturities of long-term debt during the next five years and
thereafter are as follows:       
 
         36   

Note 8. Fair Value Measurements       The Company records and discloses certain financial and non-financial assets and liabilities at their fair value. The fair value of an asset is the price at which the asset could be sold in an orderly
transaction between unrelated, knowledgeable and willing parties able to engage in the transaction. A liability s fair value is defined as the amount that would be paid to transfer the liability to a new obligor in a transaction between such
parties, not the amount that would be paid to settle the liability with the creditor.      Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are
measured using a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include:       

Level 1 - observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets;      

Level 2 - inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and      

Level 3 - unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring the Company to develop its own assumptions.
        The disclosure of fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities recorded at cost is as follows:   
   Cash and cash equivalents:  The carrying value approximates fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.   
   Short-term debt:  The carrying value approximates fair value due to the short maturity of these instruments.   
   Long-term debt:  The fair value is based on the Company s current incremental borrowing rate for similar types of borrowing
arrangements or, where applicable, quoted market prices. The carrying value and fair value of the Company s debt as of January 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:   
   
    Additionally, as of January 31,
2011 and 2010, the Company held certain derivative asset and liability positions that are required to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis. The majority of the Company s derivative instruments relate to interest rate swaps. The fair
values of these interest rate swaps have been measured in accordance with Level 2 inputs of the fair value hierarchy, using the income approach. Related inputs include the relevant interest rate and foreign currency forward curves. As of
January 31, 2011 and 2010, the notional amounts and fair values of these interest rate swaps are as follows (asset/(liability)):       
    The fair values above are the estimated amounts the Company would receive or pay upon a termination of the agreements
relating to such instruments as of the reporting dates.       Note 9. Derivative Financial Instruments    
  The Company uses derivative financial instruments for hedging and non-trading purposes to manage its exposure to changes in interest and currency exchange
rates, as well as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt. Use of derivative financial instruments in hedging programs subjects the Company to certain risks, such as market and credit risks. Market risk represents the
possibility that the value of the derivative instrument will change. In a hedging relationship, the change in the value of the derivative is offset to a great extent by the change in the value of the underlying hedged item. Credit risk related to
derivatives represents the possibility that the counterparty will not fulfill the terms of the contract. The notional, or contractual amount of the Company s derivative financial instruments is used to measure interest to be paid or received
and does not represent the Company s exposure due to credit risk. Credit risk is monitored through established approval procedures, including setting concentration limits by counterparty, reviewing credit ratings and requiring collateral
(generally cash) from the counterparty when appropriate.   
         37   

The Company s transactions are with counterparties rated  A  or better by nationally
recognized credit rating agencies. In connection with various derivative agreements with counterparties, the Company held cash collateral from these counterparties of $344 million and $323 million at January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. It
is the Company s policy to record cash collateral exclusive of any derivative asset, and any collateral holdings are reflected in the Company s accrued liabilities as amounts due to the counterparties. Furthermore, as part of the master
netting arrangements with these counterparties, the Company is also required to post collateral if the derivative liability position exceeds $150 million. The Company has no outstanding collateral postings and in the event of providing cash
collateral, the Company would record the posting as a receivable exclusive of any derivative liability.      When the Company uses derivative
financial instruments for the purpose of hedging its exposure to interest and currency exchange rates, the contract terms of a hedged instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item, providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation.
Contracts that are effective at meeting the risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. If a derivative instrument is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will
either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or be recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The
ineffective portion of an instrument s change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings during the period. Instruments that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, or contracts for which the Company has not elected hedge
accounting, are valued at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported in earnings during the period of change.        Fair Value
Instruments        The Company is party to receive fixed-rate, pay floating-rate interest rate swaps to hedge the fair value of fixed-rate
debt. Under certain swap agreements, the Company pays floating-rate interest and receives fixed-rate interest payments periodically over the life of the instruments. The notional amounts are used to measure interest to be paid or received and do not
represent the exposure due to credit loss. The Company s interest rate swaps that receive fixed-interest rate payments and pay floating-interest rate payments are designated as fair value hedges. As the specific terms and notional amounts of
the derivative instruments match those of the instruments being hedged, the derivative instruments were assumed to be perfectly effective hedges and all changes in fair value of the hedges were recorded in long-term debt and accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets with no net impact on the Consolidated Statements of Income. These fair value instruments will mature on various dates ranging from February 2011 to May 2014.   
    Net Investment Instruments        The
Company is party to cross-currency interest rate swaps that hedge its net investment in the United Kingdom. The agreements are contracts to exchange fixed-rate payments in one currency for fixed-rate payments in another currency. All changes in the
fair value of these instruments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), offsetting the currency translation adjustment that is also recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These instruments will mature on
dates ranging from October 2023 to February 2030.      The Company has approximately  3.0 billion of outstanding debt that is designated as
a hedge of the Company s net investment in the United Kingdom as of January 31, 2011 and 2010. The Company also has outstanding, approximately  437.0 billion of debt that is designated as a hedge of the Company s net investment in
Japan at January 31, 2011 and 2010. Any translation of non-U.S.-denominated debt is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), offsetting the currency translation adjustment that is also recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss). These instruments will mature on dates ranging from May 2011 to January 2039.        Cash Flow Instruments
       The Company is party to receive floating-rate, pay fixed-rate interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk of certain
non-U.S.-denominated debt. The swaps are designated as cash flow hedges of interest expense risk. Changes in the non-U.S. benchmark interest rate result in reclassification of amounts from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings to
offset the floating-rate interest expense. These cash flow instruments will mature on dates ranging from August 2013 to July 2015.   
         38   

The Company is also party to receive fixed-rate, pay fixed-rate cross-currency interest rate swaps to hedge
the currency exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of non-U.S.-denominated debt. The swaps are designated as cash flow hedges of the currency risk related to payments on the non-U.S.-denominated debt. Changes in
the currency exchange rate result in reclassification of amounts from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings to offset the remeasurement gain (loss) on the non-U.S.-denominated debt. These cash flow instruments will mature on
dates ranging from September 2029 to March 2034. Any ineffectiveness with these instruments has been and is expected to be immaterial.   
    Financial Statement Presentation     
  Hedging instruments with an unrealized gain are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either a current or a non-current asset, based on maturity
date, and those hedging instruments with an unrealized loss are recorded as either a current or a non-current liability, based on maturity date.      As of January 31, 2011 and 2010, our financial instruments were classified as follows in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets:   
   
     Note 10. Taxes        Income from Continuing Operations       The components of income from continuing operations
before income taxes are as follows:       
    A summary of the provision for income taxes is as follows:   

39   

Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation       A reconciliation of the significant differences between the U.S. statutory tax rate and the effective income tax rate on pretax income from continuing operations is as follows:   
   
     Deferred Taxes       The significant components of our deferred tax account balances are as follows:       
    The deferred taxes noted above are classified as follows in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets:   
   
     Unremitted Earnings       United States income taxes have not been provided on accumulated but undistributed earnings of the Company s international subsidiaries of approximately $17.0 billion and $13.7 billion as of
January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as the Company intends to permanently reinvest these amounts outside of the United States. However, if any portion were to be distributed, the related U.S. tax liability may be reduced by foreign income
taxes paid on those earnings. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these undistributed earnings is not practicable because of the complexities with its hypothetical calculation.   
         40   

Net Operating Losses, Tax Credit Carryforwards and Valuation Allowances    
  At January 31, 2011, the Company had U.S. capital loss carryforwards of $776 million and international net operating loss and capital loss
carryforwards totaling approximately $4.1 billion. The U.S. capital loss carryforward will expire, if not utilized, in 2012. Of the international carryforwards, approximately $2.3 billion will expire, if not utilized, in various years through 2021.
The remaining international carryforwards have no expiration. At January 31, 2011, the Company had foreign tax credit carryforwards of $1.3 billion, which will expire in various years through 2021 if not utilized.   
  As of January 31, 2011, the Company has provided a valuation allowance of approximately $2.9 billion on deferred tax assets associated primarily
with net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards for which management has determined it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The $732 million net change in the valuation allowance during fiscal 2011 related
to releases arising from the use of net operating loss carryforwards, increases in capital loss carryforwards, international net operating losses arising in fiscal 2011 and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Management believes that it is more
likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be fully realized.       Uncertain Tax Positions    
  The benefits of uncertain tax positions are recorded in our financial statements only after determining a more-likely-than-not probability that the
uncertain tax positions will withstand challenge, if any, from taxing authorities.      As of January 31, 2011 and 2010, the amount of
unrecognized tax benefits related to continuing operations was $795 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, of which, the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the Company s effective tax rate is $687 million and $671 million
for January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.      A reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits from continuing operations is as follows:
      
    The Company classifies interest and penalties related to uncertain tax benefits as interest expense and as operating,
selling, general and administrative expenses, respectively. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized interest related to uncertain tax positions of $45 million, $88 million and $109 million, respectively. At January 31, 2011
and 2010, the Company had accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions of $205 million and $231 million, respectively, and $2 million of accrued penalties. There were no changes to accrued penalties recognized during the year.   
  During the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that tax audit resolutions could reduce unrecognized tax benefits by between $330 million and
$420 million, either because the tax positions are sustained on audit or because the Company agrees to their disallowance. The Company does not expect any change to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.   
  The Company is subject to income tax examinations for its U.S. federal income taxes generally for the fiscal years 2009 through 2011. The Company is also
subject to income tax examinations for international income taxes for the tax years 2003 through 2010, and for state and local income taxes for the fiscal years generally 2006 through 2009.       Discontinued Operations       At January 31, 2010, the Company had an unrecognized tax
benefit of $1.7 billion related to an ordinary worthless stock deduction from the fiscal 2007 disposition of its German operations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, this matter was effectively settled with the Internal Revenue Service,
which resulted in the reclassification of the deduction as an ordinary loss, a capital loss that the Company has fully offset with a valuation allowance, and a reduction in the accumulated but undistributed earnings of an international subsidiary.
In connection with this settlement, the Company recorded a $1.0 billion tax benefit in discontinued operations on our Consolidated Statements of Income (see Note 15) and a reduction of our accrued income tax liability in our Consolidated Balance
Sheet at January 31, 2011.   
         41   

Other Taxes       Additionally, the Company is subject to tax examinations for payroll, value added, sales-based and other non-income taxes. A number of these examinations are ongoing and, in certain cases, have resulted
in assessments from the taxing authorities. Where appropriate, the Company has made accruals for these matters which are reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements. While these matters are individually immaterial, a group of
related matters, if decided adversely to the Company, may result in a liability material to the Company s consolidated financial statements.       Note 11. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)       Amounts included in accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) for the Company s derivative instruments and minimum pension liabilities are recorded net of their related income tax effects. The following table provides further detail regarding changes in the composition of
accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:       
    The currency translation adjustment includes a net translation loss of $1.0 billion and $545 million and a gain of $1.2
billion at January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to net investment hedges of our operations in the United Kingdom and Japan. We reclassified $(14) million and $83 million, respectively, in fiscal 2011 and 2010 from accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings to offset currency translation losses on the re-measurement of non-U.S. denominated debt.   
   Note 12. Legal Proceedings       The Company
is involved in a number of legal proceedings. The Company has made accruals with respect to these matters, where appropriate, which are reflected in the Company s consolidated financial statements. For some matters, the amount of liability is
not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated and therefore accruals have not been made. However, where a liability is reasonably possible and material, such matters have been disclosed. The Company may enter into discussions regarding
settlement of these matters, and may enter into settlement agreements, if it believes settlement is in the best interest of the Company s shareholders. The matters, or groups of related matters, discussed below, if decided adversely to or
settled by the Company, individually or in the aggregate, may result in liability material to the Company s financial condition or results of operations.       Wage-and-Hour Class Action:  The Company is a defendant in  Braun/Hummel v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc ., a class action lawsuit commenced in March 2002 in the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. The plaintiffs allege that the Company failed to pay class members for all hours worked and prevented class members from taking their full meal and rest breaks. On October 13, 2006, a jury awarded back-pay damages to the
plaintiffs of approximately $78 million on their claims for off-the-clock work and missed rest breaks. The jury found in favor of the Company on the plaintiffs  meal-period claims. On November 14, 2007, the trial judge entered a final
judgment in the approximate amount of $188 million, which included the jury s back-pay award plus statutory penalties, prejudgment interest and attorneys  fees. The Company believes it has substantial factual and legal defenses to the
claims at issue, and on December 7, 2007, the Company filed its Notice of Appeal.   
         42   

Gender Discrimination Class Action:  The Company is a defendant in  Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc ., a class-action lawsuit commenced in June 2001 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the Company has engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in
promotions, pay, training and job assignments. The complaint seeks, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys  fees. On June 21, 2004, the district court issued an order granting in part and
denying in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification. The class, which was certified by the district court for purposes of liability, injunctive and declaratory relief, punitive damages and lost pay, subject to certain exceptions,
includes all women employed at any Wal-Mart domestic retail store at any time since December 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to the pay and management track promotions policies and practices challenged by the plaintiffs.   
  On August 31, 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit granted the Company s petition for discretionary review of the
ruling. On February 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of the court of appeals issued a decision affirming the district court s certification order. On February 20, 2007, the Company filed a petition asking that the decision be
reconsidered by a larger panel of the court. On December 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of February 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. As a result, the Company s Petition for Rehearing En Banc was denied as
moot. The Company filed a new Petition for Rehearing En Banc on January 8, 2008. On February 13, 2009, the court of appeals issued an Order granting the Petition. On April 26, 2010, the Ninth Circuit issued a divided (6-5) opinion
affirming certain portions of the district court s ruling and reversing other portions. On August 25, 2010, the Company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Ninth Circuit s
decision. On December 6, 2010, the Supreme Court granted the Company s petition for writ of certiorari. The Company filed its Brief for Petitioner on January 20, 2011; the Brief for Respondents was filed on February 22, 2011; and
oral argument was held on March 29, 2011.      If the Company is not successful in its appeal of class certification, or an appellate court
issues a ruling that allows for the certification of a class or classes with a different size or scope, and if there is a subsequent adverse verdict on the merits from which there is no successful appeal, or in the event of a negotiated settlement
of the litigation, the resulting liability could be material to the Company s financial condition or results of operations. The plaintiffs also seek punitive damages which, if awarded, could result in the payment of additional amounts material
to the Company s financial condition or results of operations. However, because of the uncertainty of the outcome of the appeal, because of the uncertainty of the balance of the proceedings contemplated by the district court, and because the
Company s liability, if any, arising from the litigation, including the size of any damages awarded if plaintiffs are successful in the litigation or any negotiated settlement, could vary widely, the Company cannot reasonably estimate the
possible loss or range of loss that may arise from the litigation.       Hazardous Materials Investigations:  On November 8, 2005, the
Company received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Attorney s Office for the Central District of California, seeking documents and information relating to the Company s receipt, transportation, handling, identification,
recycling, treatment, storage and disposal of certain merchandise that constitutes hazardous materials or hazardous waste. The Company has been informed by the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Central District of California that it is a target of
a criminal investigation into potential violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ), the Clean Water Act and the Hazardous Materials Transportation Statute. This U.S. Attorney s Office contends, among other
things, that the use of Company trucks to transport certain returned merchandise from the Company s stores to its return centers is prohibited by RCRA because those materials may be considered hazardous waste. The government alleges that, to
comply with RCRA, the Company must ship from the store certain materials as  hazardous waste  directly to a certified disposal facility using a certified hazardous waste carrier. The U.S. Attorney s Office in the Northern District of
California subsequently joined in this investigation. The Company contends that the practice of transporting returned merchandise to its return centers for subsequent disposition, including disposal by certified facilities, is compliant with
applicable laws and regulations. While management cannot predict the ultimate outcome of this matter, management does not believe the outcome will have a material effect on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.   

         43   

Note 13. Commitments       The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have long-term leases for stores and equipment. Rentals (including amounts applicable to taxes, insurance, maintenance, other operating expenses and contingent
rentals) under operating leases and other short-term rental arrangements were $2.0 billion in fiscal 2011 and $1.8 billion in each of fiscal 2010 and 2009. Aggregate minimum annual rentals at January 31, 2011, under non-cancelable leases are as
follows:       
    Certain of the Company s leases provide for the payment of contingent rentals based on a percentage of sales. Such
contingent rentals were immaterial for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. Substantially all of the Company s store leases have renewal options, some of which may trigger an escalation in rentals.   
  In connection with certain debt financing, we could be liable for early termination payments if certain unlikely events were to occur. At
January 31, 2011, the aggregate termination payment would have been $84 million. The arrangements pursuant to which these payments could be made expire in fiscal 2019.      The Company has future lease commitments for land and buildings for approximately 424 future locations. These lease commitments have lease terms ranging from 4 to 30 years and provide for certain minimum
rentals. If executed, payments under operating leases would increase by $109 million for fiscal 2012, based on current cost estimates.   
   Note 14. Retirement-Related Benefits    
  The Company maintains separate Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plans for associates in the United States and Puerto Rico, under which associates generally
become participants following one year of employment. Through fiscal 2011, the Profit Sharing component of the plan was entirely funded by the Company, and the Company made an additional contribution to the associates  401(k) component of the
plan. In addition to the Company s contributions, associates could elect to contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan.      Beginning in fiscal 2012, the Company will offer a safe harbor 401(k) plan to all eligible United States associates. The Company will match 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible
earnings. The Company will offer the same matching contribution to all eligible Puerto Rico associates. The matching contributions will immediately vest at 100% for each associate. Participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but
not more than the statutory limits. Participants age 50 or older may defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits.      Annual contributions made by the Company to the United States and Puerto Rico Profit Sharing and 401(k) Plans are made at the sole discretion of the Company. Contribution expense associated with these
plans was $1.1 billion in fiscal 2011 and 2010 and $1.0 billion in fiscal 2009.      Employees in international countries who are not U.S.
citizens are covered by various post-employment benefit arrangements. These plans are administered based upon the legislative and tax requirements in the countries in which they are established.
  
         44   

Annual contributions to international retirement savings and profit sharing plans are made at the discretion of the Company, and were $221 million, $218 million and $210 million in fiscal 2011,
2010 and 2009, respectively.      The Company s subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Japan have defined benefit pension plans. The plan in
the United Kingdom was underfunded by $494 million and $339 million at January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The plan in Japan was underfunded by $309 million and $249 million at January 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These
underfunded amounts have been recorded in  Deferred income taxes and other  in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 31, 2011 and 2010. Certain other international operations have defined benefit arrangements that are not
significant.      In February 2011, ASDA and the trustees of ASDA s defined benefit plan agreed to remove future benefit accruals from the
plan and, with the consent of a majority of the plan participants, also removed the link between past accrual and future pay increases. In return, ASDA will pay  43 million (approximately $70 million) in compensation costs to the plan
participants. This curtailment charge will be recorded in expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.       Note 15. Acquisitions, Investments
and Disposals         Acquisitions and Investments         Bounteous Company Limited ( BCL ) : In February 2007, the Company purchased an initial 35% interest in BCL, which operates in China under the Trust-Mart banner. The Company paid $264
million for its initial 35% interest and, as additional consideration, paid $376 million to extinguish a third-party loan issued to the selling BCL shareholders that was secured by the pledge of the remaining equity of BCL. Concurrent with its
initial investment in BCL, the Company entered into a Shareholders  Agreement, which provides the Company with voting rights associated with a portion of the common stock of BCL securing the loan, amounting to an additional 30% of the aggregate
outstanding shares. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Company was committed to purchase the remaining interest in BCL on or before November 26, 2010, subject to certain conditions. In October 2010, the Company and the selling
shareholder mutually agreed to extend the closing to May 26, 2011, while certain conditions of the contract are being completed.   
   D S : In January 2009, the Company completed a tender offer for the shares of D S, acquiring approximately 58.2% of the outstanding D S
shares. As of the acquisition date, D S had 197 stores, 10 shopping centers and 85 PRESTO financial services branches throughout Chile. The purchase price for the D S shares in the offer was approximately $1.55 billion, allocated as follows:

tangible and other assets, $2.25 billion;          

liabilities assumed, $1.7 billion; and          

redeemable noncontrolling interest of $395 million.         In March 2009, the Company paid $436 million to acquire a portion of the redeemable noncontrolling interest in D S through a second tender offer as required by the Chilean securities laws increasing
its ownership stake in D S to 74.6%. This transaction resulted in a $148 million acquisition of that portion of the redeemable noncontrolling interest, and the remaining $288 million is reflected as a reduction of Walmart shareholders 
equity. Additionally, the former D S controlling shareholders hold a put option that is exercisable through January 2016. During the exercise period, the put option allows each former controlling shareholder the right to require the Company to
purchase up to all of their shares of D S (approximately 25.1%) at fair market value at the time of an exercise, if any.       Netto:  On
May 27, 2010, the Company announced an agreement with Dansk Supermarked A/S, whereby ASDA, our subsidiary in the United Kingdom, will purchase Netto Foodstores Limited. Netto operates 193 units, each averaging 8,000 square feet. On
March 9, 2011, the UK Office of Fair Trading confirmed its clearance of ASDA s proposed purchase of Netto, subject to the requirement that ASDA divest 47 Netto units. The original estimated purchase price was approximately
 778 million ($1.2 billion), subject to finalizing any divestitures. The transaction is expected to close in fiscal 2012.   
   Massmart:  On November 29, 2010, the Company announced an offer to purchase 51% of Massmart, for approximately ZAR 17 billion ($2.3 billion).
Massmart operates 288 units under several wholesale and retail banners in South Africa and 13 other sub-Saharan African countries. The transaction is subject to final regulatory approval.   
         45   

Disposals        At January 31, 2010, the Company had an unrecognized tax benefit of $1.7 billion related to a worthless stock deduction from the final 2007 disposition of its German operations. This matter was
effectively settled with the Internal Revenue Service, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, resulting in a $1.0 billion tax benefit recorded in discontinued operations in our Consolidated Statement of Income. See Note 10.   
  During fiscal 2009, the Company initiated a restructuring program for our Japanese subsidiary, The Seiyu Ltd., to close approximately 23 stores and
dispose of certain excess properties, which was substantially completed in fiscal 2010. This restructuring involved incurring costs associated with lease termination obligations, asset impairment charges and employee separation benefits. The
operating results, including the restructuring and impairment charges were approximately $79 million and $122 million, net of tax, for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are presented as discontinued operations
in our Consolidated Statements of Income.      During fiscal 2009, the Company recognized approximately $212 million, after tax, in operating
profits and gains from the sale of Gazely Limited ( Gazely ), our commercial property development subsidiary in the United Kingdom. The operating results and gain on sale of Gazely are presented as discontinued operations on our
Consolidated Statement of Income for the year ended January 31, 2009. The transaction continues to remain subject to certain indemnification obligations.      The assets, liabilities, net sales and cash flows related to our discontinued operations were not significant during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009. The net income or losses related to our discontinued
operations, including the gain and (losses) upon disposition, are as follows:       
     Note 16. Segments       The Company is engaged in the operations of retail stores located in all 50 states of the United States and Puerto Rico, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom, Chile, Mexico and Central
America, China and India. The Company s operations are conducted in three reportable segments: (1) the Walmart U.S. segment; (2) the Walmart International segment; and (3) the Sam s Club segment. The Company defines its
segments as those business units whose operating results its chief operating decision maker ( CODM ) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. The Company sells similar individual products and services in each of its
segments. It is impractical to segregate and identify revenue and profits for each individual product and service.      As part of an operational
realignment in fiscal 2011, the Puerto Rico operations shifted from the Walmart International segment to the respective Walmart U.S. and Sam s Club segments. The Walmart U.S. segment includes the Company s mass merchant concept in the
United States and Puerto Rico operating under the  Walmart  or  Wal-Mart  brand, as well as walmart.com. The Walmart International segment consists of the Company s operations outside of the United States and Puerto Rico.
The Sam s Club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the United States and Puerto Rico, as well as samsclub.com. All prior period segment amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation. The
amounts under the caption  Other  in the table below relating to operating income (loss) are unallocated corporate overhead items.   
         46   

The Company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment s operating
income which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. From time to time, the Company revises the measurement of each segment s operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly
reviewed by its CODM. In the first quarter of fiscal 2011, certain information systems  expenses previously included in unallocated corporate overhead have been allocated to the segment that is directly benefitting from those costs. The segment
operating income is reclassified for all periods presented to conform to the current period s presentation. Information for our segments and the reconciliation to consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes appear in the
following table:       

(1)       
     As Adjusted          In the
United States and Puerto Rico, long-lived assets, net, excluding goodwill and other assets and deferred charges were $73.6 billion, $70.7 billion and $68.5 billion as of January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the United States and
Puerto Rico, cash additions to long-lived assets were $8.7 billion, $8.2 billion and $7.5 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Outside of the United States, long-lived assets, net, excluding goodwill and other assets and deferred charges were $34.3 billion, $31.7 billion and
$27.2 billion as of fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Outside of the United States and Puerto Rico, cash additions to long-lived assets were $4.0 billion in fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Walmart International segment
includes all real estate outside the United States and Puerto Rico. The net revenues and long-lived assets of the Company s ASDA subsidiary are significant to the Walmart International segment. ASDA s net sales during fiscal 2011, 2010 and
2009 were $31.8 billion, $31.2 billion and $34.0 billion, respectively. Currency exchange rate fluctuations during fiscal 2011 negatively impacted ASDA s sales by $502 million. ASDA s long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property and
equipment, net, totaled $11.9 billion, $12.2 billion and $10.8 billion at January 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         47   

Note 17. Subsequent Events        Dividends Declared       On March 3, 2011, our Board of Directors approved an increase in
the annual dividend for fiscal 2012 to $1.46 per share, an increase of approximately 21% over the dividends paid in fiscal 2011. Dividends per share were $1.21 and $1.09 in fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively. For the fiscal year ending
January 31, 2012, the annual dividend will be paid in four quarterly installments according to the following record and payable dates:       
     Earthquake in Japan    
  On March 11, 2011, an earthquake of 9.0 magnitude occurred near the Northeastern coast of Japan, creating extremely destructive tsunami
waves. The earthquake and tsunami waves caused extensive damage in Northeastern Japan and also affected other regions in Japan through a lack of electricity, water and transportation. We are currently unable to estimate the value of damages and
the corresponding insurance recovery regarding our business in Japan, although we do not believe that any damages would be material to our financial position.       Note 18. Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)        
     The sum of per share data may not
agree to annual amounts due to rounding.        

(1)     
    Effective May 1, 2010, the Company implemented a new financial system for its operations in the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico. Concurrent
with this implementation and the increased system capabilities, the Company changed the level at which it applies the retail method of accounting for inventory in these operations from 13 divisions to 49 departments. The Company believes the change
is preferable because applying the retail method of accounting for inventory at the departmental level better segregates merchandise with similar cost-to-retail ratios and turnover, as well as providing a more accurate cost of goods sold and ending
inventory value at the lower of cost or market for each reporting period. The retrospective application of this accounting change impacted both segment and consolidated operating income, as well as consolidated net income for all comparable periods
presented.         A reconciliation of the accounting change for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2010 has been reflected in
the quarterly reports filed with the SEC in the respective quarters in fiscal 2011. The retrospective application of the accounting change impacted the following financial statement line items for the first quarter ended April 30, 2010 and
2009.   
         48   

(1)   
        The cost of sales
adjustments include $35 million and $44 million pertaining to the accounting change for the quarters ended April 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Certain reclassifications that had no effect on operating income or on the consolidated net income
attributable to Walmart represent the remainder of the amounts included in the cost of sales adjustment columns above.          
 
         49   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
   The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. as of January 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity,
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based
on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. at January 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2011, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.      As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
May 1, 2010, the Company has elected to change its method of accounting for inventory under the retail inventory method.      We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2011, based on criteria established in
 Internal Control-Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 30, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   

50   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
       The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       We have audited Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying  Management s Report to Our Shareholders.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31,
2011, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. as of January 31, 2011 and 2010, and related consolidated statements of income, shareholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
January 31, 2011 and our report dated March 30, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.       
 
         51   

Management s Report to Our Shareholders       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.      Management of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Walmart , the
 company  or  we ) is responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of Walmart s Consolidated Financial Statements and other financial information contained in this Annual Report to Shareholders. Those
Consolidated Financial Statements were prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In preparing those Consolidated Financial Statements, management was required to make certain estimates and judgments,
which are based upon currently available information and management s view of current conditions and circumstances.      The Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors, which consists solely of independent directors, oversees our process of reporting financial information and the audit of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The Audit Committee stays informed of the financial condition
of Walmart and regularly reviews management s financial policies and procedures, the independence of our independent auditors, our internal control over financial reporting and the objectivity of our financial reporting. Both the independent
auditors and the internal auditors have free access to the Audit Committee and meet with the Audit Committee periodically, both with and without management present.      Acting through our Audit Committee, we have retained Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit our Consolidated Financial Statements found in this Annual
Report to Shareholders. We have made available to Ernst   Young LLP all of our financial records and related data in connection with their audit of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We have filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) the required certifications related to our Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the year ended January 31, 2011. These certifications are attached as exhibits to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended January 31, 2011. Additionally, we have also provided to the New York Stock Exchange the required annual certification of our Chief Executive Officer regarding our compliance with the New York Stock Exchange s corporate
governance listing standards.       Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Management has responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
as of January 31, 2011. In making its assessment, management has utilized the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations ( COSO ) of the Treadway Commission in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework .
Management concluded that based on its assessment, Walmart s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of January 31, 2011. The Company s internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2011, has been
audited by Ernst   Young LLP as stated in their report which appears in this Annual Report to Shareholders.       Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures       We maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that
information required to be timely disclosed is accumulated and communicated to management in a timely fashion. Management has assessed the effectiveness of these disclosure controls and procedures as of January 31, 2011, and determined they
were effective as of that date to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, was accumulated and communicated to management, as
appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and were effective to provide reasonable assurance that such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC s rules
and forms.   
         52   

Report on Ethical Standards       Our Company was founded on the belief that open communications and the highest standards of ethics are necessary to be successful. Our long-standing  Open Door  communication policy helps
management be aware of and address issues in a timely and effective manner. Through the open door policy all associates are encouraged to inform management at the appropriate level when they are concerned about any matter pertaining to Walmart.
     Walmart has adopted a Statement of Ethics to guide our associates in the continued observance of high ethical standards such as honesty,
integrity and compliance with the law in the conduct of Walmart s business. Familiarity and compliance with the Statement of Ethics is required of all associates who are part of management. The Company also maintains a separate Code of Ethics
for our senior financial officers. Walmart also has in place a Related-Party Transaction Policy. This policy applies to Walmart s senior officers and directors and requires material related-party transactions to be reviewed by the Audit
Committee. The senior officers and directors are required to report material related-party transactions to Walmart. We maintain a global ethics office which oversees and administers an ethics helpline. The ethics helpline provides a channel for
associates to make confidential and anonymous complaints regarding potential violations of our statements of ethics, including violations related to financial or accounting matters.   

/s/ Michael T. Duke    
 
  Michael T. Duke   
 
   President and Chief Executive Officer    

/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.    
 
  Charles M. Holley, Jr.   
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     
         53   

Fiscal 2011 Unit Count       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       

(1)  
  Neighborhood Markets includes other small formats.     
         54   

Walmart International       Walmart International has a diverse portfolio with approximately 60 banners, represented in three major categories. Unit counts   (      1)       as of January 31, 2011 are as follows:

(1)  
  Walmart International unit counts, with the exception of Canada, are stated as of December 31, 2010 to correspond with their balance sheet date.

(2)  
   Other  consists of restaurants operating under varying banners in Chile, Japan and Mexico.     
         55   

Board of Directors        Aida M. Alvarez       Ms. Alvarez is the former Administrator of the U.S. Small Business
Administration and was a member of President Clinton s Cabinet from 1997 to 2001.       James W. Breyer    
  Mr. Breyer is a Partner of Accel Partners, a venture capital firm.       M. Michele Burns       Ms. Burns is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer LLC,
a subsidiary of Marsh   McLennan Companies, Inc.       James I. Cash, Jr., Ph.D.    
  Dr. Cash is the retired James E. Robison Emeritus Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School, where he served from July 1976 to
October 2003.       Roger C. Corbett       Mr. Corbett is the retired Chief Executive Officer and Group Managing Director of Woolworths Limited, the largest retail company in Australia.   
   Douglas N. Daft       Mr. Daft is the
retired Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of The Coca-Cola Company, a beverage manufacturer, where he served in that capacity from February 2000 until May 2004 and in various other capacities since 1969.   
   Michael T. Duke       Mr. Duke is the
President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       Gregory B. Penner    
  Mr. Penner is a General Partner at Madrone Capital Partners, an investment management firm.       Steven S Reinemund       Mr. Reinemund is the Dean of Business and Professor of Leadership
and Strategy at Wake Forest University. He previously served as the Chairman of the Board and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo, Inc.       H. Lee Scott, Jr.       Mr. Scott is the former Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. He is the former President and Chief Executive Officer of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., serving in that position from January 2000 to January 2009.       Arne M. Sorenson       Mr. Sorenson is the President and Chief Operating Officer of
Marriott International, Inc.       Jim C. Walton       Mr. Walton is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Arvest Bank Group, Inc., a group of banks operating in the states of Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri and Oklahoma.
      S. Robson Walton    
  Mr. Walton is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       Christopher J. Williams       Mr. Williams is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and
Chief Executive Officer of The Williams Capital Group, L.P., an investment bank.       Linda S. Wolf    
  Ms. Wolf is the retired Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Leo Burnett Worldwide, Inc., an advertising agency and
division of Publicis Groupe S.A.   
         56   

Corporate and Stock Information       Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.       Corporate information    
  Stock Registrar and Transfer Agent:   
  Computershare Trust Company, N.A.      P.O. Box
43069      Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3069      1-800-438-6278      TDD for hearing-impaired inside the U.S. 1-800-952-9245   
  Internet: http//www.computershare.com   
   Listing       New York Stock Exchange
     Stock Symbol: WMT       Annual
meeting       Our Annual Meeting of Shareholders will be held on Friday, June 3, 2011, at 7:00 a.m. (Central time) in Bud Walton Arena on
the University of Arkansas campus, Fayetteville, Arkansas.       Communication with shareholders    
  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. periodically communicates with its shareholders and other members of the investment community about our operations. For further
information regarding our policy on shareholder and investor communications refer to our website  www.walmartstores.com/investors .   
   Independent registered public accounting firm       Ernst   Young LLP      5414 Pinnacle Point Dr., Suite 102   
  Rogers, AR 72758      The following reports are
available without charge upon request by writing the Company c/o Investor Relations or by calling 479-273-8446. These reports are also available via the corporate website.       Annual Report on Form 10-K        Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
       Earnings Releases        Current Reports on Form 8-K        Copy of Annual Shareholders  Meeting
Proxy Statement        Supplier Standards Report        Sustainability Report        Market price of common stock    
  The high and low market price per share for the Company s common stock in fiscal 2011 and 2010 were as follows:   

57   

For the first quarter of fiscal 2012, year ended January 31,   

Dividends payable per share       For fiscal
2012, dividends will be paid based on the following schedule:       
     Dividends paid per share
      For fiscal 2011, dividends were paid based on the following schedule:   
   
    For fiscal 2010, dividends were paid
based on the following schedule:       
 
         58   

Stock Performance Chart       This graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on Walmart s common stock during the five fiscal years ending with fiscal 2011 to the cumulative total returns on the S P 500 Retailing
Index and the S P 500 Index. The comparison assumes $100 was invested on February 1, 2006, in shares of our common stock and in each of the indices shown and assumes that all of the dividends were reinvested.   

Shareholders       As of March 21, 2011, there were 283,633 holders of record of Walmart s common stock.   
         59   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 11
 dex21.htm
 LIST OF THE COMPANY'S SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

List of the Company's Significant Subsidiaries 

EXHIBIT 21        SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES OF WAL-MART STORES, INC.       The following list details certain of
the subsidiaries of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Subsidiaries not included in the list are omitted because, in the aggregate, they are insignificant as defined by Item 601(b) (21) of Regulation S-K.   

SUBSIDIARY    
      
   ORGANIZED OR     INCORPORATED   
      
   PERCENT OF     EQUITY     SECURITIES     OWNED   

NAME UNDER     WHICH DOING     BUSINESS     OTHER THAN     SUBSIDIARY S    
 
    Wal-Mart Stores East, LP   
      
  Delaware, U. S.  

100  
  %   
     
  Wal-Mart   
 
    Wal-Mart Property Company   
      
  Delaware, U. S.  

100  
  %   
     
  NA   
 
    Wal-Mart Real Estate Business Trust   
      
  Delaware, U. S.  

100  
  %   
     
  NA   
 
    ASDA Group Limited   
      
  England  

100  
  %   
     
  ASDA/Wal-Mart    

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 12
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       We consent to the incorporation
by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. of our reports dated March 30, 2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., included in the 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.      We also consent to
the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:       
    of our reports dated
March 30, 2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., incorporated herein by reference in this Annual Report
(Form 10-K) of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. for the year ended January 31, 2011.      Rogers, Arkansas   
  March 30, 2011   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 dex311.htm
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

Chief Executive Officer Section 302 Certification 

EXHIBIT 31.1       I, Michael T. Duke, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluations; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the Audit Committee of the registrant s Board of Directors:         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: March 30, 2011   

/s/ Michael T. Duke    
 
    Michael T. Duke     President and
Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 dex312.htm
 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

Chief Financial Officer Section 302 Certification 

EXHIBIT 31.2       I, Charles M. Holley, Jr., certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (the  registrant      

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:     

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluations; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant s auditors and the Audit Committee of the registrant s Board of Directors:         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: March 30, 2011   

/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.    
 
    Charles M. Holley, Jr.  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 15
 dex321.htm
 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Chief Executive Officer Section 906 Certification 

EXHIBIT 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 (AS ADOPTED
       PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE        SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002)       In connection with the Annual Report of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending January 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Michael T. Duke, President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company, certify to my knowledge and in my capacity as an officer of the Company, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   
  1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
     2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company as of the dates and for the periods expressed in the Report.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Certificate, effective as of March 30, 2011.        

/s/ Michael T. Duke    
 
    Michael T. Duke     President and
Chief Executive Officer     
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and will be retained by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 16
 dex322.htm
 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Chief Financial Officer Section 906 Certification 

EXHIBIT 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 (AS ADOPTED
       PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE        SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002)       In connection with the Annual Report of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
(the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ending January 31, 2011, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Charles M. Holley, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company, certify to my knowledge and in my capacity as an officer of the Company, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   
  1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and
     2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company as of the dates and for the periods expressed in the Report.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Certificate, effective as of March 30, 2011.        

/s/ Charles M. Holley, Jr.    
 
    Charles M. Holley, Jr.  
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and will be retained by Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 17
 wmt-20110131.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 18
 wmt-20110131.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 19
 wmt-20110131_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 20
 wmt-20110131_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 21
 wmt-20110131_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 22
 wmt-20110131_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

