<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120227_10-K_edgar_data_1075531_0001075531-12-000005_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15226364</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>515638</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3425064</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3895990</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4871716</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2280168</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>80</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001075531-12-000005.hdr.sgml : 20120227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120227165900
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001075531-12-000005
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PRICELINE COM INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001075531
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-BUSINESS SERVICES, NEC [7389]
		IRS NUMBER:				061528493
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-25581
		FILM NUMBER:		12642780

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 CONNECTICUT AVE
		CITY:			NORWALK
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06854
		BUSINESS PHONE:		203-299-8000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 CONNECTICUT AVE
		CITY:			NORWALK
		STATE:			CT
		ZIP:			06854

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001075531-12-000005.txt : 20120227

10-K
 1
 pcln-20111231_10k.htm
 10-K

PCLN-2011.12.31_10K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
   _____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  FORM 10-K 
    
  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
   _____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
    
  For the fiscal year ended:   December 31, 2011    
    
  Commission File No.: 0-25581 
  priceline.com Incorporated 
  (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 
                      Delaware 
  (State or other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or 
  Organization) 
      
    06-1528493 
  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 

800 Connecticut Avenue 
  Norwalk, Connecticut 
  (Address of Principal Executive Offices) 
      
    06854 
  (Zip Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code:   (203) 299-8000 
   _____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
    
  Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of Each Class: 
      
    Name of Each Exchange on which Registered: 
      Common Stock, par value $0.008 per share 
      
    The NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None  . 
   _____________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes         No    o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes    o    No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes         No    o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes         No    o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (Check one): 
                   Large accelerated filer    x 
      
    Accelerated filer    o 

Non-accelerated filer    o 
      
    Smaller reporting company    o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes    o    No      
  The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of priceline.com Incorporated as of June 30, 2011 was approximately   $25.2 billion    based upon the closing price reported for such date on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.  For purposes of this disclosure, shares of common stock held by executive officers and directors of priceline.com Incorporated on June 30, 2011 have been excluded because such persons may be deemed to be affiliates of priceline.com Incorporated.  This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 
  The number of outstanding shares of priceline.com Incorporated s common stock was   49,798,861   as of February 17, 2012. 

Table of Contents  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
    
  The information required by Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, to the extent not set forth in this Form 10-K, is incorporated herein by reference from priceline.com Incorporated s definitive proxy statement relating to the annual meeting of stockholders to be held on June 7, 2012, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of priceline.com Incorporated s fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
    
  priceline.com Incorporated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31, 2011 Index 

Page No. 
       Special Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements  
    1 
       PART I  
      
    1 
       Item 1.  
     Business  
    1 
       Item 1A.  
     Risk Factors  
    10 
       Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    23 
       Item 2.  
     Properties  
    23 
       Item 3.  
     Legal Proceedings  
    23 
       Item 4.  
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    29 

PART II  
      
    29 
       Item 5.  
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    29 
       Item 6.  
     Selected Financial Data  
    32 
       Item 7.  
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    33 
       Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    56 
       Item 8.  
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    57 
       Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    57 
       Item 9A.  
     Controls and Procedures  
    57 
       Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
    58 

PART III  
      
    59 
       Item 10.  
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    59 
       Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
    59 
       Item 12.  
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    59 
       Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    59 
       Item 14.  
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    59 

PART IV  
      
    60 
       Item 15.  
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    60 
       Signatures  
      
    64 
       Consolidated Financial Statements  
    66 

Table of Contents  

   Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
    
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict, including the Risk Factors identified in Item 1A of this Annual Report; therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed, implied or forecast in any such forward-looking statements. 
    
  Expressions of future goals, expectations and similar expressions including, without limitation, "may," "will," "should," "could," "expects," "does not currently expect," "plans," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "estimates," "predicts," "potential," "targets," or "continue," reflecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements for various reasons including the risks we face which are more fully described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors."  Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, readers should carefully review the reports and documents we file or furnish from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC" or the "Commission"), particularly our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. 
    
    PART I 
    
    Item 1.  Business 
    
  General 
    
  Priceline.com Incorporated is a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel room reservations at over   210,000   hotels worldwide through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, we also offer our customers reservations for car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises through the priceline.com brand.  We offer car rental reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw), which we acquired in May 2010.  We refer to Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com collectively as the "Priceline Group," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us." 
    
  We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include the Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com companies.  Our principal goal is to serve our customers with worldwide leadership in online hotel and rental car reservations.  Our business is driven primarily by international results.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, our international business (the significant majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately   78%   of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately   88%   of our consolidated operating income.  Given that the business of our international operations is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, gross profit earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit.  
    
  Our priceline.com brand in the U.S. offers merchant   Name Your Own Price        travel services (sometimes referred to as "opaque" travel services), which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue.  Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue.   Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between   Name Your Own Price        and retail travel services.  Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both our   Name Your Own Price        and retail travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: 

Commissions earned from price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; 
                
    Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room and rental car reservation services; 
                
    Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservations, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service;  
                
    Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to both our   Name Your Own Price        airline ticket, hotel room reservation and rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and 
       1 

     Table of Contents  

Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. 
       
  For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had gross profit of approximately   $3.1 billion   comprised of "agency" gross profit, "merchant" gross profit, and "other" gross profit.  Agency gross profit is derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency gross profit, which represented the substantial majority of our total gross profit in 2011, consisted of: (1) travel commissions; (2) GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the agency services listed above; and (3) customer processing fees.   Merchant gross profit is derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer s credit card for the travel services provided, and consisted of: (1) transaction gross profit representing revenue charged to a customer, less the cost of revenue amount charged by suppliers in connection with the reservations provided through our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservation, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as through our price-disclosed vacation packages services; (2) transaction gross profit representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with our merchant price-disclosed services; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of our   Name Your Own Price        airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and our merchant price-disclosed services; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above.  Other gross profit is derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. 
    
  Priceline.com Incorporated was formed as a Delaware limited liability company in 1997 and was converted into a Delaware corporation in July 1998.  Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PCLN."  Our principal executive offices are located at 800 Connecticut Avenue, Norwalk, Connecticut 06854. 
    
  The Priceline Group Business Model 
    
  We own and operate an online global travel service network that attracts consumers wishing to make travel reservations and connects them in an efficient and innovative manner with suppliers of high quality travel services around the world, including over   210,000   hotel properties.  We offer customers the ability to make hotel reservations on a worldwide basis primarily under the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, we also offer customers the ability to purchase other travel services, including airline tickets, rental car days, vacations packages, destination services and cruises through both a traditional, price-disclosed "retail" manner, and through our proprietary demand-collection system known as   Name Your Own Price       .  In May 2010, we acquired TravelJigsaw and in late 2011, we re-branded TravelJigsaw as "rentalcars.com."  Through rentalcars.com, we offer retail price-disclosed rental car reservations around the world.  
    
  International: Price-Disclosed Hotel Reservation Services  .  We offer a retail price-disclosed hotel reservation service through our international operations, which consist primarily of Booking.com B.V., the world s leading Internet hotel reservation service, with offices worldwide and priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.), an Internet hotel reservation service with operations primarily in Asia ("Agoda").  Booking.com works with over   185,000   hotels and accommodations in over   160   countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in   41   languages.  For geographic related information, see Note   18   to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  International: Price-Disclosed Rental Car Reservation Services  .  We offer a retail price-disclosed rental car reservation service through rentalcars.com, a Manchester, U.K.-based rental car reservation service, which we acquired in May 2010 ("rentalcars.com").  Rentalcars.com offers rental car reservations throughout the world.  Certain members of our management own a noncontrolling interest in rentalcars.com.  See Note   13   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.  For geographic related information, see Note   18   to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  United States: Name Your Own Price          Travel Services  .  We have developed a unique pricing system that allows consumers to specify the price they are prepared to pay when submitting an offer for a particular leisure travel service.  We then access databases in which participating suppliers file secure discounted rates not generally available to the public, to determine whether we can fulfill the customer s offer and decide whether we want to accept the offer at the price designated by the consumer.  This   Name Your Own Price        service uses the flexibility of buyers to enable sellers to accept a lower price in order to sell their excess capacity without disrupting their existing distribution channels or retail pricing structures.  We believe that our   Name Your Own Price        service offers substantial benefits to both buyers and sellers.  We often refer to our   Name Your Own Price        services as "opaque" services because not all aspects of the travel service are visible to the consumer before making an offer. 
    
  United States: Price-Disclosed Travel Services  .  In the United States, we offer customers the ability to purchase reservations for price-disclosed hotel rooms, rental cars, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises at retail prices.  In these transactions, the customer typically selects hotel reservation, rental car, airline flight or other travel itineraries from an array of results produced in response to the customer s request.  These results usually include the identity of  
    2 

     Table of Contents  

   the travel supplier, the exact price of the itinerary, and other details relating to the itineraries.  In some circumstances, the customer pays us at the time of reservation, and in other circumstances, the customer pays the travel supplier directly at the time of travel. 
    
  We believe that the combination of our retail price-disclosed model and our   Name Your Own Price        model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue and gross profit. 
    
  The Priceline Group Strategy 
    
  The online travel category has continued to experience significant worldwide growth as consumer purchasing shifts from traditional off-line channels to interactive online channels.  We are the leader in the worldwide online hotel reservation market based on room nights booked.  Our strategy is to continue to participate broadly in online travel growth by expanding our service offerings and markets. 

Maintain and Grow Our Position as the Leading Worldwide Online Hotel Reservation Service  .  The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet penetration rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States.  However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  Prior to 2004, substantially all of our revenues were generated within the United States.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately   78%   of our gross bookings and approximately   88%   of our consolidated operating income were generated through our international brands - primarily Booking.com.  We expect that our international operations will represent a growing percentage of our total gross bookings and operating income over the long term.  We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate.  Because of what we believe to be superior growth rate opportunities associated with international online travel, we intend to continue to invest resources to increase the share of our revenues represented by international consumers and capitalize on international travel demand. 
       
  The positioning of our Booking.com and Agoda hotel reservation services has given us access to a broader international market.  We intend to use Booking.com and Agoda to further develop our worldwide operations, especially in geographic areas where Internet penetration and e-commerce adoption are growing.  We continue to develop the means to share hotel availability among our brands, which we believe will allow us to better satisfy demand across markets. 
    
  We believe that by promoting our brands worldwide, sharing hotel supply and customer flow and applying our industry experiences in the United States and Europe to other international regions, we can further expand our service internationally and maintain and grow our position as the leading worldwide online hotel reservation service. 

Continue to be One of the Top Online Travel Businesses in North America for Value-Conscious Leisure Travelers  .  Our   Name Your Own Price        service in the United States allows consumers to save money in a simple and compelling way.  Buyers effectively trade off flexibility about brands and service features in return for prices that are lower than those that can be obtained at that time through traditional retail distribution channels.  We also offer price-disclosed retail services in the United States to our consumers to compliment the   Name Your Own Price        service.  We believe that by offering a "one-stop-shopping" solution to our customers, we can simultaneously fulfill the needs of those customers who are prepared to accept the unique restrictions of our   Name Your Own Price        service in exchange for receiving significant savings relative to retail prices, as well as those customers who are less price sensitive and require the certainty of knowing the full details of their travel itinerary prior to purchasing. 

Become a Leading Worldwide Online Rental Car Reservation Service  .  In May 2010, we acquired the rentalcars.com business, a United Kingdom-based international rental car reservation service formerly known as TravelJigsaw.  Rentalcars.com offers its car hire services throughout the world, with customer support provided in   38   languages. 
       
    3 

     Table of Contents  

   Service Offerings   International 
    
  Retail Hotels.    We offer a retail, price-disclosed hotel service worldwide, primarily through our Booking.com and Agoda brands.  Booking.com works with over   185,000   hotels and accommodations in over   160   countries offering hotel reservations on various websites and in   41   languages.  Hotels participate in Booking.com, which operates under an agency model, and Agoda, which operates primarily under a merchant model, by filing rates in our proprietary extranet.  
    
  Retail Rental Cars.    In May 2010, we acquired the rentalcars.com business, a United Kingdom-based international rental car reservation service formerly known as TravelJigsaw.  Rentalcars.com offers its car hire services in more than   4,000   locations throughout the world, with customer support provided in   38   languages.  Customers using rentalcars.com can book a full range of vehicles online through one of rentalcars.com s branded websites, or they can reserve their cars by phone.  Rentalcars.com primarily offers its services under a semi-opaque merchant model that allows customers to see the price, vehicle type and rental location, but not the identity of the supplier until the reservation is made. 
    
  Service Offerings   United States 
    
  Name Your Own Price        Hotels  .  Through our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservation service, customers can make reservations at hotel properties in substantially all major cities and metropolitan areas in the United States and Europe.  Most significant national hotel chains as well as several independent property owners participate in our   Name Your Own Price        service.  Hotels participate by filing secure private discounted rates with related rules accessible through a global distribution system database.  These specific rates generally are not available to the general public or to consolidators and other discount distributors who sell to the public.  However, hotels may make similar rates available to consolidators or other discount providers under other arrangements. 
    
  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the city and neighborhood in which the customer wants to stay, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to check in and check out, (3) the "class" of service (1, 2, 2 , 3, 3 , 4, 5-star or "resort"), (4) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (5) the customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to stay at any one of our participating hotel partners and accept a reservation that cannot be refunded or changed.  The target market for our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservation service is the leisure travel market. 
    
  Retail Hotels.    We also operate a price-disclosed hotel service in the United States which enables our customers to select the exact hotel they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to booking.  We offer such reservations through a merchant model, as well as through an agency model for hotel room night reservations sourced through the Booking.com extranet. 
    
  Name Your Own Price        Rental Cars  .  Our   Name Your Own Price        rental car service is currently available in substantially all major United States airport markets.  The top five brand name airport rental car companies in the United States are seller participants in our rental car program.  Consumers can access our website and select where and when they want to rent a car, what kind of car they want to rent (e.g., economy, compact, mid-size, SUV, etc.) and the price they want to pay per-day, excluding taxes, fees and surcharges.  When we receive an offer, we determine whether to fulfill the offer based upon the available rates and rules.  If a customer s offer is accepted, it cannot be refunded or changed, and we will immediately reserve the rental car, charge the customer s credit card and notify the customer of the rental car company and location providing the rental car. 
    
  Retail Rental Cars.    We also offer a price-disclosed rental car service on www.priceline.com and other websites which enables our customers in the United States to choose between price-disclosed or   Name Your Own Price        rental cars.  Our price-disclosed rental car service operates under the "agency" model, under which we earn a commission upon rental car return, and accommodates one-way and off-airport reservations.  As with our retail airline ticket and hotel reservation services, rental car reservations booked in a retail manner do not have the restrictions associated with our   Name Your Own Price        service.  Customers can select the exact rental car brand they want to book and the price of the reservation is disclosed prior to purchase. 
    
    4 

     Table of Contents  

   Name Your Own Price        Airline Tickets  .  Our   Name Your Own Price        airline ticket service operates in a manner similar to our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservation service.  To make an offer, a customer specifies: (1) the origin and destination of the trip, (2) the dates on which the customer wishes to depart and return, (3) the price the customer is willing to pay, and (4) the customer s valid credit card to guarantee the offer.  When making an offer, consumers must agree to: 
             
    fly on any one of our participating airline partners; 
                
    leave at any time of day between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on their desired dates of departure and return; 
                
    purchase only round trip coach class tickets between the same two points of departure and return; 
                
    accept at least one stop or connection; 
                
    receive no frequent flier miles or upgrades; and 
                
    accept tickets that cannot be refunded or changed. 
     If a customer s offer is not accepted, but we believe the offer is reasonably close to a price that we would be willing to accept, we will attempt to satisfy the customer by providing guidance to the customer indicating that changing certain parameters of the offer would increase the chances of the offer being accepted.   
    
  Retail Airline Tickets.    We also offer our customers in the United States the ability to purchase retail airline tickets at disclosed prices and with disclosed itineraries.  The airline sets the retail price paid by the consumer and is the merchant of record for the transaction.  These airline tickets do not have the restrictions associated with our   Name Your Own Price        service.  For example, in addition to having fully disclosed itineraries, retail airline tickets are generally changeable and cancellable for a fee. 
    
  With respect to each of our airline, hotel and rental car services, we believe the combination of our   Name Your Own Price        model and the retail model allows us to provide a broad array of options to value-conscious travelers, while providing us with diverse streams of revenue. 
    
  Vacation Packages  .  Our vacation package service allows consumers in the United States to purchase packages consisting of airfare, hotel and rental car components.  Consumers can select the exact hotel or resort that they want to reserve, and then select either a retail airline ticket or an opaque airline ticket for the air component of their package.  In addition, customers can elect to add a rental car to their package.  Vacation packages are sold at disclosed prices, although consumers cannot determine the exact price of the individual components on our website. 
    
  Destination Services  .  We currently offer customers in the United States the opportunity to purchase destination services such as parking, event tickets, ground transfers, tours and other services available at their travel destinations.  This service is offered to consumers as part of the process of booking an air, hotel, rental car and vacation reservation, and also as a standalone service. 
    
  Cruises  .  We also offer price-disclosed cruise trips through World Travel Holdings, Inc. ("WTH"), an agent representing major cruise lines.  Our cruise service allows consumers in the United States to search for and compare cruise pricing and availability information from cruise lines, and to purchase cruises online or through a call center by selecting from our published offerings and prices.  We receive commissions from WTH on successful cruise bookings. 
    
  Travel Insurance  .  We offer our air, hotel and vacation package customers in the United States an optional travel insurance package that provides coverage for, among other things, trip cancellation, trip interruption, medical expenses, emergency evacuation, and loss of baggage, property and travel documents.  We also offer our rental car customers in the United States the opportunity to purchase collision damage waiver insurance.  The travel insurance is arranged for by BerkelyCare, a division of Affinity Insurance Services, Inc. and underwritten by Stonebridge Casualty Insurance Company, an AEGON Company.  We retain a fee for every optional insurance package purchased by our customers. 
    
  While we are currently focused on the travel services described above, over time, we may evaluate the introduction of other services that we believe could enhance the travel experience of our customers. 
    
    5 

     Table of Contents  

   Marketing and Brand Awareness 
    
  Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda have established widely used and recognized e-commerce brands through aggressive marketing and promotion campaigns.  In late 2011, we re-branded our international rental car business as rentalcars.com, and intend to market that brand worldwide through online advertising.  During 2011, our total online advertising expenses were approximately   $919.2 million  , a substantial portion of which was spent internationally through Internet search engines and online affiliate marketing.  We also invested approximately   $35.5 million   in priceline.com-branded offline advertising in the United States.  We intend to continue a marketing strategy to aggressively promote brand awareness, primarily through online means.   
    
  As our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in our advertising expense.  Specifically, online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010.  The increase is driven primarily by brand mix rather than a change in the fundamental efficiency of our advertising by brand.  Our international operations are growing faster than our priceline.com business in the U.S., and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, a trend which we expect to continue.  Furthermore, the priceline.com brand in the U.S. is obtaining an increasing share of its traffic through online advertising, a trend which we also expect to continue.  We recognize advertising expense as incurred at the time of booking, but recognize the gross profit for price-disclosed hotel room and rental car reservations when the travel is completed. 
    
  Competition 
    
  We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Google, Microsoft or Expedia, each of which may have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do. 
    
  We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited to:  
             
    Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Elong, CarRentals.com and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity, lastminute.com, Holiday Auto and Zuji, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms, which are owned by Tui Travel; and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, AutoEurope, Car Trawler, Ctrip, MakeMyTrip, Rakuten, Jalan and Wotif;  

travel suppliers such as hotel companies, airlines and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business, including without limitation Room Key, a recently launched hotel search engine owned by several major hotel companies; 

large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel), Facebook, Groupon and Living Social; 

traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;  

online travel search sites such as Kayak.com, Trivago.com, Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com and HotelsCombined (each sometimes referred to as a "meta-search" site) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and 

operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.  
       
  Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally.  For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google recently launched a new flight search tool that enables users to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and excludes online travel agent ("OTA") participation within the search results.  Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows users to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the user.  In addition, Microsoft has launched   Bing Travel  , which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them.  "Meta-search" sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searcher's specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites  
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers.  Furthermore, certain suppliers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results.  Some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, which offers its users the ability to make hotel reservations directly on its website, may evolve into more traditional online travel sites.  These initiatives, among others, illustrate a clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers' own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites.  If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Several major hotel companies, including Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group and Marriott, have launched Room Key, a hotel search engine that competes directly with our hotel room night reservation services.  The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving demand directly to their brand websites, thus reducing the share received by online travel agencies.  They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours.  If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel room night reservation market could be negatively affected and our business could suffer. 
    
  Hotels are also increasingly offering hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount.  Expedia recently entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the "Groupon Getaways" brand name.  If these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. 
    
  Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage.  In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel services to consumers, an area in which priceline.com has been a leader, has become more intense over the recent past.  For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has been supporting the initiative with a national television advertising campaign.  In addition, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount.  As with our   Name Your Own Price        hotel booking service, for these services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase.  We believe these new offerings, in particular Expedia Unpublished Rates, have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate for our opaque hotel service, which experienced a modest decline in room night reservations in 2011 compared to 2010.  In addition, hotels are increasingly offering discounted hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social.  If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel service over time and we are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates.  As a result, we believe our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could further decrease. 
    
  We believe that for a number of reasons, including the recent significant year-over-year increase in retail airfares, consumers are engaging in increased shopping behavior before making a travel purchase than they engaged in previously.  Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our website, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid online advertising channels than through free direct channels.  
    
  The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of the effort of many hotel, airline and rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, to drive online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours.  See "  Risk Factors - Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance  ."  
    
    7 

     Table of Contents  

   Operations and Technology 
    
  Our business is supported by multiple systems platforms, which were designed with an emphasis on scalability, performance and reliability.  The platforms are largely independent among Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com.  The software platforms and architecture use a variety of tools within each corporate implementation, including server-side Java, C++, ASP, .Net and Perl, and SQL scripts integrated with Oracle, MySQL and Microsoft SQL-server relational database systems.  These internal platforms were designed to include open application protocol interfaces that can provide connectivity to vendors in the industries in which we operate.  These include large global systems, such as airline and hotel room reservation systems and financial service providers, as well as individual suppliers, such as individual hotels.  Our Internet servers utilize digital certificates to help us conduct secure communications and transactions, as appropriate. 
    
  The systems infrastructure and web and database servers of our international operations are primarily hosted in England, the Netherlands and Hong Kong. Each location has backup generators and infrastructure typical of hosted data centers. 
    
  Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers in the U.S. are hosted at two U.S. data center locations, each of which provides network connectivity, networking infrastructure and 24-hour monitoring and engineering support.  Our network operations center is located in our Norwalk, Connecticut headquarters and monitors all web hosting facilities.  All data center facilities have a continuous power supply system, generators, redundant servers and multiple back-up systems.  If  one hosting facility were inaccessible, for any reason, we would need to shift all traffic to another hosting facility. 
    
  Customer service for our international business is provided primarily through in-house customer call centers.  We outsource most of our U.S.-based priceline.com call center and customer service functions, and use a real-time interactive voice response system with transfer capabilities to our call centers and customer service centers. 
    
  Intellectual Property 
    
  Over time and through acquisitions, we have assembled a portfolio of patents, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, domain names, and trade secrets covering the Priceline Group's services.  We regard the protection of our intellectual property as critical to our success.  We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures.  We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in our services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. 
    
  We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and internationally.  We currently hold numerous issued United States patents and pending United States and international patent applications.  We file additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate.  Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is expensive to maintain and may require litigation. As the Priceline Group expands internationally, we must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. See, "Risk Factors -   We face risks related to our intellectual property  ." 
    
  Governmental Regulation 
    
  The services we provide are subject to various federal, state, international and local regulations. For example, our travel service is subject to laws governing the offer and/or sale of travel services as well as laws requiring us to register as a "seller of travel" in certain jurisdictions.  In addition, our services may be subject to various federal, state, international and local taxing regulations.  See "  Risk Factors   -   Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations  " and "  We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities.  " 
    
  We are subject to federal, state and international laws that require protection of user privacy and user data.  In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  Such government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. 
    
    8 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, our strategy involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Asia, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different legislation, regulatory environments and tax laws.  Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences, which may have an adverse effect on our business. 
    
  Seasonality 
    
  A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America.  However, we do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs.  From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses.  However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters.  Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results.    In addition,   Our   Name Your Own Price        services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated.  However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including Booking.com and Agoda, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors. 
    
  Employees 
    
  As of January 31, 2012, we employed approximately   5,000   full-time employees, of which approximately   1,000   are based in the United States and approximately   4,000   are based in our international offices. We also retain independent contractors to support our customer service, website content translation and system support functions. 
    
  We have never had a work stoppage and our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel, for whom competition is intense.  See "  Risk Factors   -   We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed.  " 
    
  The Priceline Group Websites 
    
  We maintain websites with the addresses www.booking.com, www.priceline.com, www.agoda.com and www.rentalcars.com, among others.  We are not including the information contained on our websites as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available free of charge through the www.priceline.com website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC.  These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the priceline.com Incorporated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available through the www.priceline.com website and any amendments to or waivers from the Code of Ethics will be disclosed on that website. 
    9 

     Table of Contents  

Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
    
  The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations.  If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 
  We are dependent on the travel industry  .  
    
  Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon our sale of travel services, particularly leisure travel.  Travel, including hotel, rental car and airline ticket reservations, is dependent on discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of travel services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions.  Accordingly, the recent worldwide recession led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for our services and an increase in the number of customers who canceled existing travel reservations with us.  Recently, we have experienced volatility in growth rates for transactions booked and in cancellations for our international business.  We have also observed a decline in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") for certain southern European countries, likely due to the impact of weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns.  This volatility makes it more difficult to predict longer-term trends and the future impact of macro-economic weakness on our business.   
  Concern over sovereign debt of certain European Union countries has caused significant devaluation of the Euro relative to other currencies, such as the U.S. Dollar.  Sovereign debt issues in the European Union could lead to further significant, and potentially longer-term, devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar, which would adversely impact our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars.  In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government, are operating at very large financial deficits.  Disruptions in the economies of such governments could cause, contribute to or be indicative of, deteriorating macro-economic conditions.  Furthermore, governmental austerity measures aimed at reducing deficits could impair the economic recovery and adversely affect travel demand. 
  In addition, unforeseen events beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents or the withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  For example, in early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency.  Japan is an important source of travel demand for Agoda, and these crises have had an adverse impact on travel demand originating in Japan and demand for Japanese destinations.  In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market.  In addition, in early 2010, Thailand experienced disruptive civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of Agoda's Thailand-based operations.  Future natural disasters or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations.  
  We face risk related to the growth rate and expansion of Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com.   
    
  We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the United States. Our international operations include the Netherlands-based hotel reservation service Booking.com, the Asia-based hotel reservation service Agoda and the U.K.-based rental car reservation service rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw).  Each year since 2007, our international operations achieved significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers) and hotel room night and rental car reservations.  This growth rate has contributed significantly to our growth in consolidated revenue, gross profit and earnings per share.  Over time, Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com will experience a decline in their growth rate as the absolute level of their gross bookings and unit sales grow larger.  Other factors may also slow the growth rates of our international operations, including, for example, worldwide economic conditions, any strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro and other currencies, declines in ADRs, increases in cancellations, travel market conditions and the competitiveness of the market.  A decline in the growth rates of our international operations could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price. 
    10 

     Table of Contents  

   The strategy of Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Europe, Asia-Pacific, North America, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different customs, different currencies, different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability.  In addition, compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences.  If Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into new markets, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 
    
  The number of our employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007, to approximately 5,000 as of December 31, 2011, which growth is mostly comprised of hires by or for our international operations.  As a result of such rapid expansion, the average tenure of our employees has become shorter.  In addition, expansion increases the complexity of our business and places additional strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions.  
    
  There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expansion effectively.  Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations.  We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and harm our business.  
    
  We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 
    
  As a result of the growth of Booking.com and Agoda, and the acquisition of the rentalcars.com business, we are conducting a significant portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars.  As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation.  For example, a strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars.  Additionally, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com are subject to risks typical of international business, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility.  Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt.  Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the U.S., has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. dollar and other currencies over the past several years.   
    
  Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. 
    
  We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Google, Microsoft or Expedia, each of which may have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do. 
    
  We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited to:  
             
    Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Elong, CarRentals.com and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity, lastminute.com, Holiday Auto and Zuji, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms, which are owned by Tui Travel; and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, AutoEurope, Car Trawler, Ctrip, MakeMyTrip, Rakuten, Jalan and Wotif;  

travel suppliers such as hotel companies, airlines and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business, including without limitation Room Key, a recently launched hotel search engine owned by several major hotel companies; 
       
    11 

     Table of Contents  

large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel), Facebook, Groupon and Living Social; 

traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators;  

online travel search sites such as Kayak.com, Trivago.com, Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com and HotelsCombined (each sometimes referred to as a "meta-search" site) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and 

operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre.  
       
  Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally.  For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google recently launched a new flight search tool that enables users to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and excludes online travel agent ("OTA") participation within the search results.  Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows users to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the user.  In addition, Microsoft has launched   Bing Travel  , which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them.  "Meta-search" sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searcher's specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers.  Furthermore, certain suppliers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results.  Some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, which offers its users the ability to make hotel reservations directly on its website, may evolve into more traditional online travel sites.  These initiatives, among others, illustrate a clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers' own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites.  If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Several major hotel companies, including Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group and Marriott, have launched Room Key, a hotel search engine that competes directly with our hotel room night reservation services.  The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving demand directly to their brand web sites, thus reducing the share received by online travel agencies.  They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours.  If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel room night reservation market could be negatively affected and our business could suffer. 
    
  Hotels are also increasingly offering hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount.  Expedia recently entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the "Groupon Getaways" brand name.  If these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. 
    
  Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage.  In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel services to consumers, an area in which priceline.com has been a leader, has become more intense over the recent past.  For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has been supporting the initiative with a national television advertising campaign.  In addition, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount.  As with our   Name Your Own Price        hotel booking service, for these services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase.  We believe these new offerings, in particular Expedia Unpublished Rates, have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate for our opaque hotel service, which experienced a modest decline in room night reservations in 2011 compared to 2010.  In addition, hotels are increasingly offering discounted hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social.  If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel service over time and we are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates.  As a result, we believe our share of the  
    12 

     Table of Contents  

   discount hotel market in the U.S. could further decrease. 
    
  We believe that for a number of reasons, including the recent significant year-over-year increase in retail airfares, consumers are engaging in increased shopping behavior before making a travel purchase than they engaged in previously.  Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our website, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid online advertising channels than through free direct channels.  
    
  The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of the effort of many hotel, airline and rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, to drive online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us.  Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. 
    
  We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed.  
  Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization.  In particular, the contributions of certain key senior management in the U.S., Europe and Asia are critical to the overall management of the Company.  We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business.   
  In addition, competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers, mobile communication talent and other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad.  With the recent success of our international business and the increased profile of the Booking.com business and brand, competitors have increased their efforts to hire our international employees.  Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees.  If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies.  
  We are dependent on certain suppliers.  
  Our arrangements with the hotel, airline and rental car suppliers generally do not require them to provide any specific quantity of hotel room reservations, airline tickets or rental cars, or to make room reservations, tickets or cars available for any particular route, in any geographic area or at any particular price.  During the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  During the recent worldwide recession, the hotel industry experienced a significant decrease in occupancy rates and ADRs, and an increase in reservation cancellation rates.  While lower occupancy rates have historically resulted in hotel suppliers increasing their distribution of hotel room reservations through third-party intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for hotel transactions changes proportionately with room price, and therefore, lower ADRs generally have a negative effect on our hotel business and a negative effect on our gross profit. 
    
  In addition, certain hotels have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States.  Many hotels distribute room reservations through their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant rate hotel room reservations sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the margin available to us.  While our merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  We could be adversely affected by changes in the airline industry, and, in many cases, we will have no control over such changes or their timing.   Examples of such changes could include, without limitation, carrier bankruptcy, industry consolidation, capacity reductions, airfare increases and loss of GDS incentives, any or all of which could adversely affect our  
    13 

     Table of Contents  

   business.  Additionally, some rental car suppliers have begun offering discounted prepaid reservations on their own sites and through certain online travel agents.  If such rates are sufficiently discounted or are associated with more flexible cancellation policies than those applicable to our   Name Your Own Price         rental car service (which are generally non-cancellable), the value proposition of our   Name Your Own Price         rental car service would be negatively impacted which could reduce demand for that service and could adversely affect our business. 
  Online advertising is our largest expense and is subject to variability  . 
    
  As our international operations have become more meaningful contributors to our results, we have seen, and expect to continue to see online advertising, which is our largest expense, increase as a percentage of gross profit.  Our international operations are growing faster than our priceline.com business in the U.S., and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, a trend which we expect to continue.  Furthermore, the priceline.com brand is obtaining an increasing share of its traffic through online advertising, a trend which we also expect to continue.   In addition, advertising efficiency is impacted by a number of factors, including without limitation, ADRs, costs per click, cancellation rates, foreign exchange rates and the extent to which we are successful in converting paid traffic to booking customers and then causing customers to return directly to our websites for future bookings. 
    
  Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation. 
    
  A number of jurisdictions in the United States have initiated lawsuits against on-line travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax).  In addition, a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes.  See Note   16   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings.  Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both.  
  In connection with some hotel occupancy tax audits and assessments, we may be required to pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in judicial proceedings.  This requirement is commonly referred to as "pay to play" or "pay first."  Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an admission that we believe that we are subject to such taxes and, even if such payments are made, we intend to continue to assert our position vigorously.    
  Litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings.  For example, in October 2009, a jury in a San Antonio class action found that we and the other online travel companies that are defendants in the lawsuit "control" hotels for purposes of the local hotel occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject to the requirements of those ordinances.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation may encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include "pay to play" payments, associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. An adverse outcome in one or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could be material to our earnings or cash flows in any given operating period. 
  To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel service less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on "merchant" hotel transactions.  Either step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
    
  In many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit, but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  The October 2009 jury verdict in the San Antonio litigation and the related proceedings to determine, among other things, the amount of penalties, interest and attorney's fees that could be owed by us illustrate that any liability associated with hotel occupancy tax matters is not constrained by our liability for tax owed on our historical gross profit. 
    
    14 

     Table of Contents  

   We will continue to assess the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities. 
    
  Fluctuations in our financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting difficult. 
    
  Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional leisure travel bookings in Europe and the United States are higher in the second and third calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services in Europe and the United States generally declines from a seasonal perspective.  A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in the Northern Hemisphere.  However, we will not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs.  From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses.  However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters.  Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results. 
  Our revenues and operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful.  For example, over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room nights booked through our hotel reservation services.  However, given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year room night reservation growth rates will generally decelerate on a quarterly sequential basis in future periods.   
    
  Because of these fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock would be adversely affected.  
  Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. 
    
  The security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential to maintaining consumer and supplier confidence in our services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer transaction data. 
  We cannot guarantee that our existing security measures will prevent security breaches or attacks. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer information or transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. For instance, from time to time, we have experienced "denial-of-service" type attacks on our system that have made portions of our websites slow or unavailable for periods of time.  In addition, several major corporations experienced well-publicized online security breaches during the first half of 2011, including among others, Sony, the data security firm RSA, Lockheed Martin, the email wholesaler Epsilon, the Fox broadcast network and Citigroup.  We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused and liabilities incurred by breaches, and reductions in website availability and response time could cause loss of substantial business volumes during the occurrence of any such incident.  These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced.  Security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand.  Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches.  
  We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, our services as a means of conducting commercial transactions.  Additionally,  
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   security breaches at third parties such as supplier or distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions.  Some of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our infrastructure or through other systems.  A security breach at such a third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions.  In addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability. 
    
  In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data.  This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union.  This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction.  We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  In addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security Administration's Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as CAPPS II.  These initiatives may result in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling.  As privacy and data protection has become a more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data.  Travel businesses have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information.  These and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Proposed "cookie" laws could negatively impact the way we do business. 
  In June 2011, the Dutch Parliament adopted a bill to amend the Dutch Telecommunications Act.  One of the provisions of the bill is a new regulation on the use of "cookies."  A "cookie" is a text file that is stored on a user's web browser by a website.  Cookies are common tools used by thousands of websites, such as Booking.com, which is based in the Netherlands, and priceline.com, to, among other things, store or gather information (i.e., remember log-on details so a user does not have to re-enter them when revisiting a site) and enhance the user experience on a Website.  Cookies are valuable tools for websites like Booking.com and priceline.com to improve customer experience and increase conversion on their websites.   
  This bill would require websites, such as Booking.com, to provide Dutch users with clear and comprehensive information about the storage and use of certain cookies and obtain prior consent from the user before placing certain cookies on a user's web browser.  Consent could be accomplished by asking a user to check a box to consent to the use of the cookies before proceeding on the website ("opt-in" consent).     
  The bill must be adopted by the Dutch Senate before it will become law; the Dutch Senate is currently debating the bill.  The bill is intended to implement certain provisions of the European Union's ePrivacy Directive, which requires member countries to adopt regulations governing the use of "cookies" by websites servicing customers from the European Union.  If the Dutch bill is adopted by the Senate in its current form or if European Union countries adopt similarly restrictive "cookie" regulations that require "opt-in" consent before certain cookies can be placed on a user's web browser, it might adversely affect our ability, in particular, Booking.com's ability, to service certain customers in the manner we currently do and impair our ability to continue to improve and optimize performance on our websites.  As a result, these regulations, if adopted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Our stock price is highly volatile  . 
  The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control:  
             
    operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors;  
                
    quarterly variations in our operating results;  
                
    changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors;  
                
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro; 
                
    announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors;  
       16 

     Table of Contents  

changes in our capital structure;  
                
    changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies;  
                
    announcements by us or our competitors of price reductions, promotions, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;  
                
    loss of a major supplier participant, such as a hotel chain or airline;  
                
    changes in the status of our intellectual property rights;  
                
    lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically;  
                
    announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings;  
                
    occurrences of a significant security breach; 
                
    additions or departures of key personnel; and  
                
    stock market price and volume fluctuations.  
       
  Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis.  
  The trading prices of Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public's perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price could decline, regardless of our results. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock.  Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital.  
  We are defendants in securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources.  
  There can be no assurance that we can maintain our "Innovation Box Tax" benefit. 
    
  Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax").   Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25%.  Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment.   The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Period").   
    
  In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R D") certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are "innovative."  Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com's new or anticipated activities as "innovative" - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency's requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated.  
    
  After the Initial Period, Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods.  There can be no assurance that Booking.com's application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in 2012 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit.   
    
  The loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit in future periods would adversely impact our results of operations. 
    17 

     Table of Contents  

   Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of traffic-generating arrangements.  
    
  We utilize Internet search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites.  Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com, in particular, rely to a significant extent upon Google to generate business and, to a much lesser extent, other search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites.  Search engines such as Google frequently update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and particularly those of Booking.com, Agoda, rentalcars.com and their affiliates, can be negatively affected.  In a similar way, a significant amount of Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com's business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially, technically and competitively.  In addition, we purchase web traffic from a number of sources, including some operated by our competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can be terminated with little or no notice.  If one or more of such arrangements is terminated, or if a major search engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 
  In addition, Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com rely on various third party distribution channels (i.e., affiliates) to distribute hotel room reservations.  Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com reservations, or suffer deterioration in its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or otherwise, our business could be negatively affected. 
  Capacity constraints and system failures could harm our business  . 
    
  We have experienced rapid growth in customer traffic, the number of hotels on our extranets and the geographic breadth of our operations.  If our systems cannot be expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times, decreased customer service and customer satisfaction and delays in the introduction of new services, any of which could impair our reputation, damage our brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues.  While we do maintain redundant systems and hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. 
    
  A substantial amount of our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at hosting facilities around the world.  These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct.  Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at such facilities, or the failure by such facility to provide our required data communications capacity could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our services.  Any system failure that causes an interruption or delay in service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
    
  We rely on certain third party computer systems and third party service providers, including global distribution systems and computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and priceline.com hotel room and rental car reservations. Any interruption in these third party services systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
    
  We depend upon various third parties to process credit card transactions around the world.  In addition, we rely on a third party to provide credit card numbers which we use as a payment mechanism for merchant hotel transactions.  If any such third party were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted or we may not be able to generate merchant hotel transactions until such a time as a replacement processes could be put in place with a different vendor.   
    
    18 

     Table of Contents  

   We do not have a completely formalized disaster recovery plan in every geographic region in which we conduct business.  In the event of certain system failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the time to full recovery could be prolonged.  Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial, increase customer service cost and cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have taken and continue to take steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime.   
    
  We use both internally developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If the number of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and accounting systems and other infrastructure. We may not be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful amount of time before upgrade, expansion or repair.   
    
  Our financial results will likely be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future. 
    
  Until our domestic net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, we do not expect to make tax payments on our U.S. income, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes.  However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income.  We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than our U.S. operations over the long term and, therefore, we expect that our cash tax payments will increase as our international operations generate an increasing share of our pretax income. 
    
  We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities  .     
    
  As an international corporation providing travel reservation services around the world, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  The Internal Revenue Service initiated an audit of our income taxes for the first time in the third quarter of 2011.  To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant adjustments as a result.  If future audits find that additional taxes are due, we may be subject to incremental tax liabilities, possibly including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as certain proposals by U.S. President Barack Obama's Administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. 
    
  We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as value-added, payroll, sales, use, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, we are under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities.  
    
  We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other changes. 
    
  The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. 
    19 

     Table of Contents  

   Improved web browsing functionality and the development of thousands of useful applications is driving substantial traffic and commerce activity to mobile platforms, including mobile devices such as the iPhone and Android-enabled phones, and tablet devices such as the iPad.  In addition, social networking sites and social commerce and flash-sale sites are experiencing high levels of usage and rapid growth.  We believe travel transactions will grow rapidly on mobile platforms and may gain acceptance on social and flash-sale platforms.  If we are unable to develop product offerings and effective distribution on these platforms, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants. 
    
  We rely on the value of the Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com brands, along with others, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. 
    
  We believe that maintaining and expanding the Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com brands, along with our other owned brands, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base.  As our larger competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our brand recognition.  In addition, we have invested considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the Booking.com, priceline.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com brands, and we will continue to invest resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of these brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. 
  Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. 
    
  The services we offer are regulated by regulations (including without limitation laws, ordinances, rules and other regulations) of national and local governments and regulatory authorities around the world. Our ability to provide our services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by judicial or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.   
    
  Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations and consumer protection laws. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brands, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties.  We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to:  

general economic conditions in each country or region; 
                
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; 
                
    regulatory changes or other government actions; 
                
    political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; 
                
    public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; 
                
    longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 
                
    additional complexity to comply with regulations in multiple tax jurisdictions, as well as overlapping tax regimes; 
                
    our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the United States at favorable tax rates; 
                
    difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; and  
                
    reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries.    
       
  Our business has grown substantially over the last several years and continues to expand into new geographical locations.  In addition, we have made efforts and expect to make further efforts to integrate supply across our various demand platforms.  These changes add to complexity in tax compliance, and our increased size and operating history may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to audits by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. 
    
    20 

     Table of Contents  

   In addition, the strategy of Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Europe, Asia, North America, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability.  In September 2010, the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading ("OFT"), the competition authority in the U.K., announced it was conducting a formal early stage investigation into suspected breaches of competition law in the hotel online booking sector and had written to a number of parties in the industry to request information.  Specifically, the investigation focuses upon whether there are agreements or concerted practices between hotels and online travel companies and/or hotel room reservation "wholesalers" relating to the fixed or minimum resale prices of hotel room reservations.  In September 2010, Booking.com B.V. and priceline.com Incorporated, on behalf of Booking.com, received a Notice of Inquiry from the OFT; we and Booking.com are cooperating with the OFT's investigation.  We are unable at this time to predict the outcome of the OFT's investigation and the impact, if any, on our business and results of operations.  Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. 
    
  We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our foreign cash balances are remitted to the United States  . 
    
  As of December 31, 2011, we held approximately $1.6 billion of cash and short-term investments outside of the United States.  To date, we have used our foreign cash to reinvest in our foreign operations.  It is our current intention to reinvest our foreign cash in our foreign operations.  If our foreign cash balances continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will repatriate some of our foreign cash balances to the United States.  In such event, we would likely be subject to additional income tax expense in the United States with respect to our unremitted foreign earnings.  Other than federal alternative minimum tax and certain state income taxes, we would not incur an increase in tax payments unless we repatriate the cash and no longer have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset the taxable income. Additionally, if we were to repatriate foreign cash to the U.S., it would use a portion of our domestic net operating loss carryforward which could result in us being subject to cash income taxes on the earnings of our domestic business sooner than would otherwise have been the case. 
    
  In addition, U.S. President Barack Obama has proposed significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws that would limit U.S. deductions for interest expense related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax credit rules.  We cannot determine whether all of these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to being enacted into law.  If the U.S. tax laws change in a manner that increases our tax     obligation, our results could be adversely impacted. 
    
  We face risks related to our intellectual property  . 
    
  We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  
  While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that:  
             
    a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use those features; 

our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties; 

any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties; 

the pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; 

competitors or potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications; 

because of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more categories;  
       
    21 

     Table of Contents  

new prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; or 

legislative or judicial action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and validity of any of our patent rights. 
       
  There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called "business method" patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications.  In addition, there has been recent discussion in various federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called "business method" patents. The U.S. Supreme Court, in a recent decision in   Bilski v. Kappos  , partially addressed the patentability of so-called business method patents.   We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision or new legislation will have on our issued patents or pending patent applications. 
  We pursue the registration of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. 
  From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business.  We endeavor to defend our intellectual property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives.  Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business.  In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether.  Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 
  Our business is exposed to risks associated with processing credit card transactions. 
  Our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards.  Because we act as the merchant of record in a majority of our priceline.com transactions as well as those of Agoda and rentalcars.com, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers.  Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record.  Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit card chargebacks.  If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 
  In addition, in the event that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy, we could experience an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with travel reservations with such supplier.  For example, airlines that participate in our system and declare bankruptcy or cease operations may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights.  Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves.  Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of   Name Your Own Price        airline tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results.  For example, in April 2008, Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those airlines. 
  Agoda and rentalcars.com process credit card transactions and operate in numerous currencies.  Credit card costs are typically higher for foreign currency transactions and in instances where cancellations occur. 
  We are party to legal proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us. 
    
  We are a party to the legal proceedings described in Item 3 below, and Note   16   to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The defense of the actions described in Item 3 and Note   16   may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.    

22 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments 
    
  None. 
    
    Item 2.  Properties 
    
  Our executive, administrative, and U.S. operating offices and network operations center are located in approximately 70,000 square feet of leased office space located in Norwalk, Connecticut.  We also lease approximately 49,000 square feet of office space in Grand Rapids, Michigan.  Booking.com Limited leases approximately 48,000 square feet of office space in Cambridge, England.  Booking.com B.V. leases approximately 458,000 square feet of office space in Amsterdam, Netherlands and in 39 other countries in support of its international operations.  Agoda leases approximately 74,000 square feet of office space in Bangkok, Thailand, and in 18 other countries in support of its international operations.  Rentalcars.com leases approximately 29,000 square feet of office space in Manchester, England.  We do not own any real estate as of February 1, 2011. 
    
  We believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet our current requirements, and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any further expansion of corporate operations. 
    
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
    
  Litigation Related to Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes 
    
  We and certain third-party defendant online travel companies are currently involved in approximately   fifty   lawsuits, including certified and putative class actions, brought by or against U.S. states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and our "merchant" hotel business.  Our subsidiaries Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC are named in some but not all of these cases.  Generally, each complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants violated each jurisdiction's respective hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes under each law.  Each complaint typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law, attorneys' fees and other relief.  We are also involved in   one   consumer lawsuit relating to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy taxes and service fees.  In addition, approximately   sixty   municipalities or counties, and at least   six   states, have initiated audit proceedings (including proceedings initiated by more than   forty   municipalities in California), issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax).  Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. 
    
  With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the service we provide, namely the facilitation of reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed.  Rather, we believe that the ordinances at issue generally impose hotel occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations.  In addition, in many of these matters, municipalities have asserted claims for "conversion" - essentially, that we have collected a tax and wrongfully "pocketed" those tax dollars - a claim that we believe is without basis and have vigorously contested.  The municipalities that are currently involved in litigation and other proceedings with us, and that may be involved in future proceedings, have asserted contrary positions and will likely continue to do so.  From time to time, we have found it expedient to settle, and may in the future agree to settle, claims pending in these matters without conceding that the claims at issue are meritorious or that the claimed taxes are in fact due to be paid.   
    
  In connection with some of these tax audits and assessments, we may be required to pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in judicial proceedings.  This requirement is commonly referred to as "pay to play" or "pay first."  For example, the City of San Francisco assessed us approximately   $3.4 million   (an amount that includes interest and penalties) relating to hotel occupancy taxes, which we paid in July 2009.  Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even if such payments are made, we intend to continue to assert our position vigorously.  We have successfully argued against a "pay first" requirement asserted in another California proceeding. 
    
  Litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings.  For example, in October 2009, a jury in a San Antonio class action found that we and the other online travel companies that are defendants in the lawsuit "control" hotels for purposes of the local hotel occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject to the requirements of those ordinances.  On July 1, 2011, the court issued findings of fact and  
    23 

     Table of Contents  

   conclusions of law in connection with this case.  In addition to ruling that hotel tax was due from defendants on the markup and service fee, the court held defendants liable for penalties and interest per the terms of each city's applicable ordinance, but capped penalties at fifteen percent (15%) of the total amount of unpaid taxes at the time of entry of judgment; ordinances without a penalty provision are assessed a fifteen percent (15%) penalty under the Texas Tax Code.  We expect supplemental findings of fact and conclusions of law to be issued by the court, followed by a judgment.  We intend to vigorously pursue an appeal of the judgment on legal and factual grounds. 
    
  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation may encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include "pay first" payments, associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings.  An adverse outcome in one or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could be material to our earnings or cash flow in any given operating period.  
    
  To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have such a responsibility, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel service less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for its services on "merchant" hotel transactions.  Either step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.   
    
    We estimate that, since our inception through   December 31, 2011  , we have earned aggregate gross profit, including fees, from our entire U.S. "merchant" hotel business (which includes, among other things, the differential between the price paid by a customer for our service and the cost of the underlying room) of approximately   $1.4 billion  .  This gross profit was earned in over a thousand taxing jurisdictions that we believe have aggregate tax rates (which may include hotel occupancy taxes, state and local taxes, among other taxes) associated with a typical transaction between a consumer and a hotel that generally range from approximately   6%   to approximately   18%  , depending on the jurisdiction.  In many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit, but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  Therefore, any liability associated with hotel occupancy tax matters is not constrained to our liability for tax owed on our historical gross profit, but may also include, among other things, penalties, interest and attorneys' fees.  
    
   To date, the majority of the taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate hotel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our U.S. "merchant" hotel business.  With respect to municipalities that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis. 
    
  Reserve For Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes 
    
  As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual  for the potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes in the amount of approximately   $33 million   as of   December 31, 2011   compared to approximately   $26 million   as of   December 31, 2010   (which includes, among other things, amounts related to the litigation in San Antonio).  The accrual is based on our estimate of the ultimate cost of resolving these issues.  The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded.  An estimate for a possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made.  
    
  Developments in the Year Ended December 31, 2011 
    
  In the year ended   December 31, 2011   and to date,    six   of the approximately   fifty   currently pending lawsuits and   seven   of the total number of currently pending administrative proceedings noted above were commenced.    District of Columbia v. Priceline.com, Inc.   (Superior Court for the District of Columbia) was filed on March 22, 2011;   McAllister v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Circuit Court of Saline County, Arkansas), a putative class action, was filed on February 22, 2011;   County of Volusia, et al. v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of Volusia County, Florida) was filed on April 20, 2011;   Town of Breckenridge, Colorado v. Colorado Travel Company, LLC, et al.  , (Summit County District Court), a putative class action, was filed on July 25, 2011;    County of Nassau v. Expedia, Inc. et al.   (Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Nassau) was filed on September 26, 2011. This case previously had been dismissed from federal court and was refiled as a state court action.    State  
    24 

     Table of Contents  

   of Mississippi ex rel. Attorney General Jim Hood v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (Chancery Court for Hinds County, Mississippi) was filed in December 2011.  In addition,   County of Kent, Michigan v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Circuit Court for Kent County) was filed in November 2011; the Priceline defendants were voluntarily dismissed in December 2011.   
    
  In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011 and to date, appellate rulings and rulings granting dispositive motions brought by us (or another co-defendant), e.g. motions to dismiss or for summary judgment, were issued.  For example, on June 28, 2011, in   St. Louis County, et al. v. Prestige Travel, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri; filed July 2009), the Supreme Court of Missouri affirmed the lower court's dismissal of all claims against the online travel companies.  On October 25, 2011, in   City of Houston v. Hotels.com, L.P.   (Harris County, Tex. Dist. Ct., filed on March 5, 2007) (Tex. App., appeal filed April 14, 2010), the Texas 14th Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's grant of summary judgment in favor of the defendants on all claims, holding that the statutes at issue in that case did not apply to defendants' hotel reservation facilitation services.  In January 2012, Plaintiffs filed a petition for review before the Texas Supreme Court.  In   State of Oklahoma v. Priceline.com, et al.   (District Court of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma, filed November 2010), defendants' motion to dismiss was granted on March 11, 2011 and plaintiffs did not appeal.  Defendants' motion for summary judgment was granted on March 24, 2011 in   City of Birmingham, Alabama, et al. v. Orbitz, Inc. et al.  , (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, filed December 2009); Plaintiffs have appealed that ruling to the Alabama Supreme Court.  On April 29, 2011, the Kentucky Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's dismissal of all claims against the online travel companies in   City of Bowling Green, Kentucky v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (filed in Warren Circuit Court in March 2009; appeal filed April 2010; motion for discretionary review filed with Kentucky Supreme Court in May 2011).  In February 2012, the Kentucky Supreme Court denied the plaintiff's motion for discretionary review of the Court of Appeals' decision.      In   City of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  , JCCP 4472 (Los Angeles Superior Court, filed February 9, 2006), on September 6, 2011, the court granted the online travel companies' petition to (i) vacate the hearing officer's prior ruling that the online travel company defendants are liable for transient occupancy tax pursuant to San Diego's ordinance, (ii) issue a new ruling that the online travel company defendants are not liable for such tax, and (iii) to set aside the City of San Diego's assessments.  With respect to its remaining claims, the City of San Diego has indicated it will stipulate to a consent judgment in favor of the online travel companies.  The City has indicated it plans to appeal.  In   City of Santa Monica v. Expedia, Inc. et al.,   JCCP 4472 (Los Angeles Superior Court, filed June 25, 2010), the court granted the online travel companies' motion to dismiss all claims without leave to amend; judgment was entered on July 26, 2011 in favor of the defendants. The case is currently on appeal.  In   Township of Lyndhurst, New Jersey v. priceline.com Inc., et al.   (filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey in June 2008) (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, appeal filed April 2009), the Third Circuit affirmed the District Court's dismissal of the case.  On August 24, 2011, the Third Circuit also denied the Township's motion for rehearing.  On January 28, 2012, in the City of Branson, Missouri v. Hotels.com, LP., et al. (Circuit Court of Greene County, Missouri, filed December 2006), the Court granted defendants' motion to dismiss all causes of action.  In   City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee; filed June 2008), the court granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment on February 21, 2012. 
    
  Rulings granting dispositive motions or granting relief sought by a plaintiff municipality (or state) also were issued.  For example, on August 3, 2011, in   County of Lawrence, Pennsylvania v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas of Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, filed November 2009) (Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, appeal filed in November 2010), the Court for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania reversed the dismissal by the Court of Common Pleas of Lawrence of the County's declaratory relief claim, but affirmed the dismissal of the remaining counts.  In   The Village of Rosemont, Illinois v. priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, filed in July 2009), on October 14, 2011, the court granted plaintiff's motion for summary judgment.  In   City of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, filed March 2006), following the decision by the Georgia Supreme Court affirming summary judgment in favor of defendants in May 2011, the Superior Court of Fulton County found that there are unresolved claims in the case for conversion, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees.  That decision is the subject of a motion for reconsideration filed by defendants on December 29, 2011. 
    
  Lastly, in the year ended December 31, 2011 we reached agreements with the respective plaintiffs resolving the claims for purported back taxes in the following cases:   Brevard County, Florida v. Priceline.com Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, filed October 2009);   County of Genesee, Michigan, et al. v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (Circuit Court for the County of Ingham, Michigan, filed in February 2009);   City of Jacksonville v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.,   2006-CA-005393 (Circuit Court for Duval County, filed August 4, 2006);   Anne Gannon v. Hotels.com, L.P.  , 50 2009 CA 025919 (Circuit Court for Palm Beach County, filed July 30, 2009);   City of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas for Horry County, South Carolina, filed in February 2007);   Town of Hilton Head Island, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas for Beaufort County, South Carolina, filed in April 2010) and   Horry County, South Carolina, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (Court of Common Pleas, Horry County, South Carolina; filed in February 2007).  These cases have been dismissed.  In addition,   County of Monroe, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc. et al.   (U.S. District Court for  
    25 

     Table of Contents  

   the Southern District of Florida, filed January 2009)(agreement signed August 2010) and the Tourist Development Tax claims asserted by the County in   Priceline.com, Inc. v. Miami-Dade County, Florida, et al.  , were dismissed in 2011 pursuant to the August 2010 agreement reached in the   County of Monroe   case.  As part of each of these agreements, plaintiffs have agreed to not assert claims based on the ordinance at issue in the respective action for periods that range from two to four years.  The settlement amounts in these cases are not material to our results of operations or cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
    
  The currently pending occupancy tax matters are listed below.  We intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings described below.   
    
  Statewide Class Actions and Putative Class Actions 
    
  Such actions include: 

City of Los Angeles, California v. Hotels.com, Inc., et al.   (California Superior Court, Los Angeles County; filed December 2004) 
                
    City of Rome, Georgia, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia; filed November 2005)  
                
    City of San Antonio, Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas; filed May 2006) 
                
    City of Gallup, New Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico; filed July 2007) 
                
    City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee; filed June 2008) 
                
    Pine Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission, Jefferson County, Arkansas, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Arkansas; filed September 2009) 
                
    County of Lawrence, Pennsylvania v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas of Lawrence County, Pennsylvania; filed November 2009  
                
    McAllister, et al. v. Hotels.com LP, et al.   (Circuit Court of Saline County, Arkansas; filed February 2011) 
                
    Town of Breckenridge, Colorado v.   Colorado Travel Company, LLC, et al. (District Court of Summit County, Colorado; filed July 2011) 
                
    County of Nassau v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Supreme Court of Nassau County, New York; filed September 2011) 
       
  Actions Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities, Counties and States 
    
  Such actions include: 

City of Findlay, Ohio v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio; filed October 2005); (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit; appeal filed December 2010); and   City of Columbus, Ohio, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio; filed August 2006); (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio); (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit; appeal filed December 2010) 
                
    City of Chicago, Illinois v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Circuit Court of Cook County Illinois; filed November 2005) 
                
    City of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (California Superior Court, San Diego County; filed September 2006) (Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County) 
                
    City of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia; filed March 2006) 
                
    Wake County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Wake County, North Carolina; filed November 2006);   Dare County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Dare County, North Carolina; filed January 2007);   Buncombe County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Buncombe County, North Carolina; filed February 2007);   Mecklenburg County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina; filed January 2008) 
                
    City of Houston, Texas v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.   (District Court of Harris County, Texas; filed March 2007); (Affirmed on appeal, Texas Fourteenth Court of Appeals October 2011); (Texas Supreme Court; petition for review filed January 2012)  
       26 

     Table of Contents  

City of Oakland, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California; filed June 2007); (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; appeal filed December 2007)  
                
    City of Bowling Green, Kentucky v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.,   (Warren Circuit Court; filed March 2009); (Commonwealth of Kentucky Court of Appeals; appeal filed April 2010); (Kentucky Supreme Court; motion for discretionary review filed May 2011) 
                
    The Village of Rosemont, Illinois v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois; filed July 2009) 
                
    Leon County, et al. v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Second Judicial Circuit Court for Leon County, Florida; filed November 2009);   Leon County v. Expedia, Inc. et al.   (Second Judicial Circuit Court for Leon County, Florida; filed December 2009) 
                
    City of Birmingham, Alabama, et al. v. Orbitz, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama; filed December 2009); (Alabama Supreme Court; appeal filed May 2011) 
                
    Baltimore County, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland; filed May 2010) 
                
    City of Santa Monica, California v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County, West District; filed June 2010); (California Court of Appeal, Second District; appeal filed September 2011)  
                
    Hamilton County, Ohio, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District Of Ohio; filed August 2010) 
                
    State of Florida Attorney General v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court - Second Judicial Circuit, Leon County, Florida; November 2010) 
                
    Montana Department of Revenue v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (First Judicial District Court of Lewis and Clark County, Montana; filed November 2010) 
                
    Montgomery County, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (United States District Court for the District of Maryland; filed December 2010) 
                
    District of Columbia v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Superior Court for the District of Columbia; filed March 2011) 
                
    County of Volusia, et al. v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of Volusia County; filed April 2011) 
                
    State of Mississippi ex rel. Attorney General Jim Hood v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (Chancery Court for Hinds County, Mississippi; filed December 2011) 
       
  We have also been informed by counsel to the plaintiffs in certain of the aforementioned actions that various, undisclosed municipalities or taxing jurisdictions may file additional cases against us, Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC in the future.  
    
  Judicial Actions Relating to Assessments Issued by Individual Cities, Counties and States 
    
  After administrative remedies have been exhausted, we may seek judicial review of assessments issued by an individual city or county.  Currently pending actions seeking such a review include: 

Priceline.com, Inc., et al. v. Broward County, Florida   (Circuit Court - Second Judicial Circuit, Leon County, Florida; complaints filed January 2009, August 2009, and May 2011)   
                
    Priceline.com Inc., et al. v. City of Anaheim, California, et al.   (Superior Court of California, County of Orange; filed February 2009); (Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles); (California Court of Appeal, Second District; appeal filed January 2011)  
                
    Priceline.com, Inc. v. Indiana Department of State Revenue   (Indiana Tax Court; filed March 2009) 
                
    Priceline.com, Inc., et al. v. City of San Francisco, California, et al.   (Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco; filed June 2009); (Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles)  
                
    Priceline.com, Inc. v. Miami-Dade County, Florida, et al.   (Eleventh Judicial Circuit Court for Miami Dade, County, Florida; filed December 2009) 
                
    Priceline.com Incorporated, et al. v. Osceola County, Florida, et al.   (Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and for Leon County, Florida; filed January 2011) 
                
    In the Matter of the Appeal of Travelocity.com LLC, et al.   (Hawaii Tax Appeal Court; filed March 2011)  
       
  We intend to prosecute vigorously our claims in these actions. 
    
  Consumer Class Actions 
    
  On June 21, 2011 in   Chiste, et al. v. priceline.com Inc., et al.   (United States District Court for the Southern District of New York; filed in December 2008), the court granted our motion to dismiss all claims against it except the breach of fiduciary claim.  On June 21, 2011, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for  
    27 

     Table of Contents  

   resolution of the remaining claim, which was consolidated under   Peluso v. Orbitz.com, et al.  , 11 Civ. 4407 on July 14, 2011.  On July 13, 2011, the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal of the June 21, 2011 decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  On July 25, 2011, the   Peluso   court granted plaintiff's motion to voluntarily dismiss the claim against us in the Northern District of Illinois.  On December 6, 2011, the Second Circuit dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction. 
    
  We intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the on-going proceedings described above.   
    
  Administrative Proceedings and Other Possible Actions   
    
  At various times, we have also received inquiries or proposed tax assessments from municipalities and other taxing jurisdictions relating to our charges and remittance of amounts to cover state and local hotel occupancy and other related taxes.  Among others, the City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; the City of Phoenix, Arizona (on behalf of itself and 12 other Arizona cities); the City of St. Louis, Missouri; the City of Paradise Valley, Arizona; the City of Denver, Colorado; City of Greenwood Village, Colorado; City of Littleton, Colorado; City of Golden, Colorado; and the City of Portland, Oregon and County of Multnomah, Oregon; and state tax officials from Arkansas, Florida, Indiana, Louisiana, Maryland, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming have begun formal or informal administrative procedures or stated that they may assert claims against us relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel occupancy or related taxes.  Between 2008 and 2010, we received audit notices from more than   forty   cities in the state of California.  We have been engaged in audit proceedings in each of those cities.  We have also been contacted for audit by   five   counties in the state of Utah.   
    
  Litigation Related to Securities Matters 
    
  On March 16, March 26, April 27, and June 5, 2001, respectively,   four   putative class action complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York naming priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston Robertson Stephens, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants (01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576, 01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).    Shives et al. v. Bank of America Securities LLC et al.  , 01 Civ. 4956, also names other defendants and states claims unrelated to us.  The complaints allege, among other things, that we and the individual defendants violated the federal securities laws by issuing and selling priceline.com common stock in our March 1999 initial public offering without disclosing to investors that some of the underwriters in the offering, including the lead underwriters, had allegedly solicited and received excessive and undisclosed commissions from certain investors.  After extensive negotiations, the parties reached a comprehensive settlement on or about March 30, 2009.  On April 2, 2009, plaintiffs filed a Notice of Motion for Preliminary Approval of Settlement.  On June 9, 2009, the court granted the motion and scheduled the hearing for final approval for September 10, 2009.  The settlement, previously approved by a special committee of our Board of Directors, compromised the claims against us for approximately $  0.3   million. The court issued an order granting final approval of the settlement on October 5, 2009.  Notices of appeal of the Court's order have been filed with the Second Circuit.  All of the appeals have now been resolved. 
    
  OFT Inquiry 
    
  In September 2010, the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading (the "OFT"), the competition authority in the U.K., announced it was conducting a formal early stage investigation into suspected breaches of competition law in the hotel online booking sector and had written to a number of parties in the industry to request information.  Specifically, the investigation focuses upon whether there are agreements or concerted practices between hotels and online travel companies and/or hotel room reservation "wholesalers" relating to the fixed or minimum resale prices of hotel room reservations.  In September 2010, Booking.com B.V. and priceline.com Incorporated, on behalf of Booking.com, received a Notice of Inquiry from the OFT; we and Booking.com are cooperating with the OFT's investigation.  We are unable at this time to predict the outcome of the OFT's investigation and the impact, if any, on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  
    
  We intend to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings described in this Item 3.  We have accrued for certain legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  Except as disclosed, such amounts accrued are not material to our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provisions recorded have not been material to our consolidated results of operations.  We are unable to estimate the potential maximum range of loss. 
    
  From time to time, we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights.  Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, divert management's attention from our business objectives and could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  
    
    28 

       Table of Contents  

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures 
    
  Not applicable. 
    
    PART II 
    
    Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  Price Range of Common Stock 
    
  Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "PCLN."  The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of the common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market: 

Holders 
    
  As of February 14, 2012, there were approximately 330 stockholders of record of priceline.com Incorporated s common stock, although we believe that there are a significantly larger number of beneficial owners. 
    
  Dividend Policy 
    
  We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock since our inception and do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business. 
    
  Performance Measurement Comparison 
    
  The following graph shows the total stockholder return through December 31, 2011 of an investment of $100 in cash on January 1, 2007 for priceline.com Incorporated common stock and an investment of $100 in cash on January 1, 2007 for (i) the NASDAQ Composite Index, (ii) the Standard and Poor s 500 Index and  (iii) the Research Data Group ("RDG") Internet Composite Index.  The RDG Internet Composite Index is an index of stocks representing the Internet industry, including Internet software and service companies and e-commerce companies.  Historic stock performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.  All values assume reinvestment of the full amount of all dividends and are calculated as of the last day of each month: 

29 

     Table of Contents  

Sales of Unregistered Securities 
    
  In 2011, we issued 4,869 shares of our common stock to holders of our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes upon the conversion of approximately $0.2 million principal amount of notes.  Such issuances of shares of our common stock were made under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  See Note   11   to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    30 

     Table of Contents  

   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  The following table sets forth information relating to repurchases of our equity securities during the three months ended December 31, 2011: 
    
  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 

_____________________________ 
   (2)                                     Pursuant to a stock repurchase program announced on September 21, 2006, whereby the Company was authorized to repurchase up to $150,000,000 of its common stock. 
  (3)                                     Pursuant to a stock repurchase program announced on March 4, 2010, whereby the Company was authorized to repurchase up to $500,000,000 of its common stock. 
  (4)                                     Pursuant to a general authorization, not publicly announced, whereby the Company is authorized to repurchase shares of its common stock to satisfy employee withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation. 
    31 

     Table of Contents  

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data 
    
  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
    
  The following selected consolidated financial data presented below are derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of the Company, and should be read in connection with those statements, some of which are included herein.  Selected financial data reflects data related to rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw) and Agoda from their respective acquisition dates of May 2010 and November 2007.  The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future results and should be read in conjunction with Item 7,   "Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 

_____________________________ 
  (1)                 The Company recorded a $55.4 million expense related to a litigation settlement in 2007. 
  (2)               The Company recorded non-cash income tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the reversal of a portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of $183.3 million.  The Company also recorded income tax benefits in the year ended December 31, 2007 amounting to $47.9 million resulting from a reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to domestic net operating loss carryfowards generated from operating losses. 
  (3)               In September 2008, the Company repurchased all of the remaining outstanding shares underlying noncontrolling interests in Priceline.com International Limited.  Redeemable noncontrolling interests beginning in 2010 relates to the Company's purchase of rentalcars.com in May 2010.  In April 2011, in connection with the exercise of certain call and put options in March 2011, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from 24.4% to 19.0%.   
  (4)               Includes convertible debt which is classified as a current liability. 
    32 

     Table of Contents  

Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
    
  The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements, including the notes to those statements, included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" in this Form 10-K.  As discussed in more detail in the Section entitled "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," this discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties.  Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that might cause those differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in "Risk Factors." 
    
  Overview 
    
  We are a leading online travel company that offers our customers hotel room reservations at over   210,000   hotels worldwide through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, we also offer our customers reservations for car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises through the priceline.com brand.  We offer car rental reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw), which we acquired in May 2010.   
    
  We launched our business in the United States in 1998 under the priceline.com brand and have since expanded our operations to include the Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com companies.  Our principal goal is to serve our customers with worldwide leadership in online hotel and rental car reservations.  Our business is driven primarily by international results.  During the year ended December 31, 2011, our international business (the significant majority of which is generated by Booking.com) represented approximately   78%   of our gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers), and approximately   88%   of our consolidated operating income.  Given that the business of our international operations is primarily comprised of hotel reservation services, gross profit earned in connection with the reservation of hotel room nights represents a substantial majority of our gross profit.  
    
  Our priceline.com brand in the U.S. offers merchant   Name Your Own Price        travel services (sometimes referred to as "opaque" travel services), which are recorded in revenue on a "gross" basis and have associated cost of revenue.  Retail, or price-disclosed, travel services offered by both our U.S. and international brands are recorded in revenue on a "net" basis and have no associated cost of revenue.   Therefore, revenue increases and decreases are impacted by changes in the mix of our revenues between   Name Your Own Price        and retail travel services.  Gross profit reflects the net margin earned for both our   Name Your Own Price        and retail travel services. Consequently, gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  At present, we derive substantially all of our gross profit from the following sources: 

Commissions earned from price-disclosed hotel room reservations, rental cars, cruises and other travel services; 

Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our price-disclosed merchant hotel room and rental car reservation services; 

Transaction gross profit and customer processing fees from our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservation, rental car and airline ticket services, as well as our vacation packages service;  

Global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees related to both our   Name Your Own Price        airline ticket, hotel room reservation and rental car services, and price-disclosed airline tickets and rental car services; and 

Other gross profit derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites. 
       
  Over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room night reservations booked through our hotel reservation services.  We believe this growth is the result of, among other things, the broader shift of travel purchases from offline to online, the high growth of travel overall in emerging markets such as Asia-Pacific and South America, and the continued innovation and execution by our teams around the world to build hotel supply, content and distribution and to improve the customer experience on our websites.  We experienced exceptionally strong year-over-year growth during 2011.  However, given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year growth rates will generally decelerate on a quarterly sequential basis in the future.  Thus far during the first quarter of 2012, we experienced deceleration in year-over-year hotel room night reservation growth as compared to the year-over-year growth rate  
    33 

     Table of Contents  

   in the fourth quarter of 2011.  We expect to experience further deceleration in growth rates throughout 2012 and beyond.   
    
  In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. and certain European governments, are operating at very large financial deficits.  Governmental austerity measures aimed at reducing deficits could impair the economic recovery and adversely affect travel demand.  Weak economic growth and elevated unemployment rates in the economies of such countries could cause, contribute to, or be indicative of, deteriorating macro-economic conditions.  Recently, we have experienced volatility in the growth rates for transactions booked and cancellations for our international business.  We have also observed a decline in transaction growth rates and weaker trends in hotel average daily rates ("ADRs") for certain southern European countries, likely due to the impact of weak economic conditions and sovereign debt concerns.  This volatility makes it more difficult to predict longer-term trends and the future impact of macro-economic weakness on our business.  Finally, higher oil prices are contributing to higher airline ticket prices and are likely to adversely impact consumer discretionary funds available to be spent on travel. 
    
  Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating - and intend to further create - inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally.  For example, following its acquisition of ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, Google recently launched a new flight search tool that enables users to find fares, schedules and availability directly on Google and excludes online travel agent ("OTA") participation within the search results.  Google has also invested in HomeAway, a publicly traded vacation home rental service, and launched "Hotel Finder," a utility that allows users to search and compare hotel accommodations based on parameters set by the user.  In addition, Microsoft has launched   Bing Travel  , which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them.  "Meta-search" sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searcher's specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers.  Furthermore, certain suppliers limit OTA participation within the meta-search results.  Some meta-search sites, such as Kayak.com, which offers its users the ability to make hotel reservations directly on its website, may evolve into more traditional online travel sites.  These initiatives, among others, illustrate a clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers' own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of search traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites.  If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
    
  Several major hotel companies, including Choice Hotels International, Hilton Worldwide, Hyatt, InterContinental Hotels Group, Wyndham Hotel Group and Marriott, have launched Room Key, a hotel search engine that competes directly with our hotel room night reservations services around the world.  The hotel companies that own Room Key have a stated goal of driving demand directly to their brand web sites, thus reducing the share received by online travel agencies.  They may also attempt to improve their competitive position by offering lower room rates, better room availability or additional features or amenities through Room Key than are available through services like ours.  If Room Key is successful, our share of the online hotel room night reservation market could be negatively affected in the United States and around the world and our business could suffer. 
    
  Hotels also are increasingly offering hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social, which sell coupons to customers at a substantial discount.  Expedia recently entered into a partnership with Groupon to sell hotel room reservations to Groupon customers under the "Groupon Getaways" brand name.  If these new services are successful, we may experience less demand for our services and are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates. 
    
  International Trends  .  The size of the travel market outside of the United States is substantially greater than that within the United States.  Historically, Internet adoption rates and e-commerce adoption rates of international consumers have trailed those of the United States.  However, international consumers are rapidly moving to online means for purchasing travel.  Accordingly, recent international online travel growth rates have substantially exceeded, and are expected to continue to exceed, the growth rates within the United States.  We expect that over the long-term, international online travel growth rates will follow a similar trend to that experienced in the United States.  In addition, the base of hotel suppliers in Europe and Asia is particularly fragmented compared to that in the United States, where the hotel market is dominated by large hotel chains.  We believe online reservation systems like ours may be more appealing to small chains and independent hotels more commonly found outside of the United States.  Our growth has primarily been generated by our international hotel reservation service brands, Booking.com and Agoda.  Booking.com, our most significant brand, currently includes over   185,000   hotels and accommodations on its website as compared to about   120,000   hotels and accommodations last year (updated hotel counts are  
    34 

     Table of Contents  

   available on the Booking.com website).  Booking.com has added hotels over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America.  An increasing amount of our business from both a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate.  We believe that the opportunity to continue to grow our business exists for the markets in which we operate.  We believe these trends and factors have enabled us to become the top online hotel reservation service provider in the world as measured by room nights booked. 
    
  As our international operations have become significant contributors to our results and international hotel bookings have become of increased importance to our earnings, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, changes in certain of our operating expenses and other financial metrics.  For example, because Booking.com and Agoda utilize online search and affiliate marketing as the principal means of generating traffic to their websites, our online advertising expense has increased significantly over recent years, a trend we expect to continue throughout 2012 and beyond.  In addition, certain newer markets in which we operate that are i  n earlier stages of development have lower operating margins compared to more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as these markets increase in size over time.    Also, we intend to continue to invest in hotel additions.  Many of these newer properties we add, especially in highly penetrated markets, may have fewer rooms or lower ADRs, and may appeal to a smaller subset of customers (for example, hostels and bed and breakfasts) and therefore may also negatively impact our margins over time. 
    
  Another impact of the growing importance of Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com is our increased exposure to foreign currency exchange risk.  Because we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon   consolidation.  A strengthening of the Euro increases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars, while a weakening of the Euro decreases our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars.  Greece, Ireland, Portugal and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt have had difficulty refinancing their debt.  Concern around devaluation or abandonment of the Euro common currency, or that sovereign default risk may be more widespread and could include the U.S., has led to significant volatility in the exchange rate between the Euro, the U.S. dollar and other currencies.  We generally enter into derivative instruments to minimize the impact of short-term currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results.  However, such derivative instruments are short term in nature and not designed to hedge against currency fluctuation that could impact our foreign currency denominated gross bookings, revenue or gross profit (see Note   5   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our derivative contracts).  For example, while revenue from our international operations grew on a local currency basis by approximately   70%   for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010, as a result of the positive impact of currency exchange rates, revenue from our international operations as reported in U.S. Dollars grew   79%   year-over-year.   
    
  Domestic Trends  .  Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage.  In particular, the competition to provide "opaque" hotel services to consumers, an area in which priceline.com has been a leader, has become more intense over the recent past.  For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name "Expedia Unpublished Rates" and has been supporting the initiative with a national television advertising campaign.  In addition, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount.  As with our   Name Your Own Price        hotel booking service, for these services, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase.  We believe these new offerings, in particular Expedia Unpublished Rates, have adversely impacted the market share and year-over-year growth rate for our opaque hotel service, which experienced a modest decline in room night reservations in 2011 compared to 2010.  In addition, hotels are increasingly offering discounted hotel room reservations through "daily deal" websites such as Groupon and Living Social.  If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque hotel service, and/or "daily deal" websites are successful in garnering a sizable share of discounted hotel bookings, we may have less consumer demand for our opaque hotel service over time and we are likely to face more competition for access to the limited supply of discounted hotel room rates.  As a result, we believe our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could further decrease. 
    
  We believe that for a number of reasons, including the recent significant year-over-year increase in retail airfares, consumers are engaging in increased shopping behavior before making a travel purchase than they engaged in previously.  Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness because traffic becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our website, and such traffic is more likely to be obtained through paid online advertising channels than through free direct channels.  
    
    35 

     Table of Contents  

   While demand for online travel services in the U.S. continues to experience annualized growth, we believe that the domestic market share of third-party distributors is impacted in part by a concerted initiative by travel suppliers to direct customers to their own websites in an effort to reduce distribution expenses and establish more direct control over their pricing.  The launch of Room Key discussed above is demonstrative of such efforts.  In addition, certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website.  Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. 
    
  Some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods.  For example, in 2011, we enabled a direct connection with American Airlines.  During 2011, American Airlines content was temporarily unavailable on Expedia and Orbitz due to disputes related to enabling a direct connection.  We believe that this is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs and could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive in requiring online travel agents to implement direct connections.  Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel suppliers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects.  In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. 
    
  Domestic airlines have reduced capacity and increased fares since the latter part of 2009, a trend which may continue.  Decreases in capacity reduce the amount of airline tickets available, while significant increases in average airfares over the last two years have adversely impacted leisure travel demand.  Reduced airline capacity and demand negatively impact our priceline.com air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car businesses.  Our rental car business is further impacted by decreases in rental car fleets, which has negatively impacted our   Name Your Own Price        rental car service.  We expect continued variability in the breadth and depth of discounted airline tickets and rental car rates made available to us in the future, depending on market conditions from time to time. 
    
  Seasonality  .  A meaningful amount of retail gross bookings are generated early in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations in Europe and North America.  However, we do not recognize associated revenue until future quarters when the travel occurs.  From a cost perspective, we expense the substantial majority of our advertising activities as they are incurred, which is typically in the quarter in which bookings are generated.  As a result, we typically experience our highest levels of profitability in the second and third quarters of the year, which is when we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for the year for our North American and European businesses.  However, we experience the highest levels of booking and travel consumption for our Asia-Pacific and South American businesses in the first and fourth quarters.  Therefore, if these businesses continue to grow faster than our North American and European businesses, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters of the year may become more significant over time as a percentage of full year operating results.  In addition, Our   Name Your Own Price        services are generally non-refundable in nature, and accordingly, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking is generated.  However, we recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel services, including Booking.com and Agoda, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel.  Therefore, if our retail hotel business continues to grow, we expect our quarterly results to become increasingly impacted by these seasonal factors. 
    
  Other Factors  .  We believe that our success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain profitability, primarily from our hotel business, to continue to promote the Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com brands internationally and the priceline.com brand in the United States, and, over time, to offer other travel services and further expand into other international markets. Factors beyond our control, such as worldwide recession, higher oil prices, terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions (such as the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland), travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as Influenza H1N1, avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents or the withdrawal from our system of a major hotel supplier or airline, could adversely affect our business and results of operations and impair our ability to effectively implement all or some of the initiatives described above. 
    
  For example, in early 2011, Japan was struck by a major earthquake, tsunami and nuclear emergency.  Japan is an important source of travel demand for Agoda, and these crises have had an adverse impact on travel demand originating in Japan and demand for Japanese destinations.  In October 2011, severe flooding in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes and cancellation rates in this market.  In addition, in early 2010, Thailand experienced disruptive civil unrest, which caused the temporary relocation of Agoda's Thailand-based operations.  Future natural disasters or civil or political unrest could further disrupt our business and operations  
    36 

     Table of Contents  

   in Thailand.  
    
  We intend to continue to invest in marketing and promotion, technology and personnel within parameters consistent with attempts to improve long-term operating results.  We also intend to broaden the scope of our business, and to that end, we explore strategic alternatives from time to time in the form of, among other things, mergers and acquisitions. Our goal is to improve volume and sustain margins in an effort to maintain profitability. The uncertain environment described above makes the prediction of future results of operations difficult, and accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that we will sustain gross profit growth and profitability. 
    
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
    
  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our significant accounting policies and estimates are more fully described in Note   2   to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Certain of our accounting policies and estimates are particularly important to our financial position and results of operations and require us to make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain.  In applying those policies, our management uses its judgment to determine the appropriate assumptions to be used in the determination of certain estimates.  On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the items described below.  Those estimates are based on, among other things, historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our observance of trends in the travel industry and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  Our significant accounting policies that involve significant estimates and judgments of management include the following: 

Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance  .  We periodically evaluate the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduce the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized.  We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors.  Based on management's assessment of positive and negative evidence, we recorded non-cash tax benefits in 2009 of $183.3 million, resulting from the reversal of a portion of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets.  The net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2011 amounted to $147.8 million.  The valuation allowance may need to be adjusted in the future if facts and circumstances change, causing a reassessment of the amount of deferred tax assets more likely than not to be realized. 

Accounting for State and Local "Hotel Occupancy" Taxes  .  As discussed in Note   16    to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are currently involved in over fifty lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and our "merchant" hotel business.  We are also involved in one consumer lawsuit relating to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy taxes and service fees.  In addition, over sixty municipalities or counties, and at least six states, have initiated audit proceedings (including proceedings initiated by more than forty municipalities in California), issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax).  Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively.  Historically, we have not collected hotel occupancy or other taxes on the gross profit earned from "merchant" hotel transactions; however, in a handful of jurisdictions, we have been recently required by passage of a new statute or court order, to start collecting and remitting certain taxes (local occupancy and/or sales tax) imposed upon our margin and/or service fee.  The ultimate resolution of these matters in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time.  We have established an accrual for potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances.  We accrue for legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated; our legal expenses for these matters are expensed as incurred and are not reflected in the amount accrued.   A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of gross profit represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes.  The ultimate resolution of these matters may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded.  
       
    37 

     Table of Contents  

Stock-Based Compensation.    We record stock-based compensation expense for equity-based awards over the recipient's service period based upon the grant date fair value of the award.  A number of our equity awards have performance targets (a performance "contingency") which, if satisfied, can increase the number of shares issued to the recipients at the end of the performance period or, in certain instances, if not satisfied, reduce the number of shares issued to the recipients, sometimes to zero, at the end of the performance period.  The performance periods for our performance based equity awards are typically three years.  We record stock-based compensation expense for these performance-based awards based upon our estimate of the probable outcome at the end of the performance period (i.e., the estimated performance against the performance targets).  We periodically adjust the cumulative stock-based compensation recorded when the probable outcome for these performance-based awards is updated based upon changes in actual and forecasted operating results.  Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 includes charges amounting to   $10.3 million   and   $13.4 million  , respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome of unvested performance share units.  Our actual performance against the performance targets could differ materially from our estimates.  
       
  We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures.  In determining the estimated forfeiture rates, we periodically review actual and projected forfeitures.  To the extent that actual or projected forfeiture rates differ from current estimates, such amounts are recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which the estimate is revised. 

Valuation of Goodwill  .  We have recorded goodwill related to businesses we have acquired.  Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment using appropriate valuation techniques.  In the event that future circumstances indicate that any portion of our goodwill is impaired, an impairment charge would be recorded. 
       
  A substantial amount of our goodwill relates to our acquisition of Booking.com.  The estimated fair value for Booking.com, as well as our other reporting units, is substantially in excess of their respective carrying values.  Since the annual impairment test in September 2011, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment.  

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles.    We evaluate whether events or circumstances have occurred which indicate that the carrying amounts of long-lived assets and intangibles may be impaired.  The significant factors that are considered that could trigger an impairment review include changes in business strategies, market conditions, or the manner of use of an asset; under performance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends.  In evaluating an asset for possible impairment, management estimates that asset's future undiscounted cash flows to measure whether the carrying value of the asset is recoverable.  If it is determined that the asset is not recoverable, we measure the impairment based upon the fair value of the asset compared to its carrying value.  The fair value represents the projected discounted cash flows of the asset over its remaining life. 
       
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
    
  In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance for new disclosure requirements regarding a company's rights of offset and related arrangements associated with financial instruments and derivative instruments.  The new disclosures are designed to make financial statements that were prepared under U.S. GAAP more comparable to those prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS").  The new disclosure requirements are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods therein.  Retrospective application is required.    
    
  In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting update, which amends the guidance on testing goodwill for impairment.  Under the revised guidance, entities testing goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit.  If, based on the qualitative factors, it is more-likely-than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then the unchanged two-step approach previously used would be required.  The new accounting guidance does not change how goodwill is calculated, how goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit, or the requirements for testing goodwill annually or when events and circumstances warrant testing.  The accounting update is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  Early adoption of the update is permitted.  During the three months ended September 30, 2011, we performed our annual quantitative goodwill impairment testing, and concluded that the estimated fair value for each reporting unit substantially exceeds its respective carrying value.  This new accounting guidance will not have a significant impact on us.    
       
    38 

     Table of Contents  

   In June 2010, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance on the presentation of other comprehensive income in financial statements by requiring comprehensive income to be reported in either a single statement or in two consecutive statements reporting net income and other comprehensive income.  This accounting update also required reclassification adjustments out of other comprehensive income to be presented in both the income statement and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented, both in interim and annual periods.  In December 2011, the FASB issued another accounting  update which indefinitely defers the requirement to separately present reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements.  During the deferral period, a company that does not display reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements must disclose such adjustments in the notes to the financial statements.  The accounting guidance did not change the items that constitute net income or other comprehensive income, the timing of when other comprehensive income is reclassified to net income, or the earnings per share computation.  The accounting update requires retrospective application.  Public entities will be required to adopt the guidance for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted.  We intend to comply with the change in presentation of other comprehensive income in the financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2012. 
       
  In May 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance on fair value to largely achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and IFRS.  The new accounting guidance does not extend the use of fair value but rather provides guidance about how fair value should be determined.  For U.S. GAAP, most of the changes are clarifications of existing guidance or wording changes to align with IFRS.  Amendments that clarify the Board's intent under existing requirements include: (a) use of the highest and best use and valuation premise concept should be limited to nonfinancial assets; (b) disclosure should include quantitative information about the unobservable inputs used in a fair value measurement that is categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy; and (c) the fair value of an instrument classified in an entity's equity should be valued from the perspective of a market participant that holds that instrument as an asset.  The amended guidance changes requirements as follows: (a) disclosures are expanded, particularly those relating to fair value measurements based on unobservable inputs, (b) fair value measurements for financial assets and liabilities based on a net position are permitted if market or credit risks are managed on a net basis and other criteria are met, and (c) premiums and discounts are allowed only if a market participant would also include them in the fair value measurement.  This accounting update is effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted.  We expect to make the additional disclosures required in 2012. 
    
    Results of Operations 
    
  Year Ended December 31, 2011 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2010 
    
  Operating and Statistical Metrics 
    
  Our financial results are driven by certain operating metrics that encompass the booking activity generated by our travel services.  Specifically, reservations of hotel room nights, rental car days and airline tickets capture the volume of units purchased by our customers.  Gross bookings is an operating and statistical metric that captures the total dollar value, generally inclusive of taxes and fees, of all travel services booked by our customers, and is widely used in the travel business.  International gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings for our international brands and operations, and domestic gross bookings reflect gross bookings generated principally by websites owned by, operated by, or dedicated to providing gross bookings by our domestic operations, in each case without regard to the travel destination or the location of the customer purchasing the travel. 
    
  Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): 

Gross bookings increased by   58.7%   for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, principally due to 52.6% growth in hotel room night reservation.  The   78.4%   increase in international gross bookings (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 70%) was attributable to growth in international hotel room night reservations for  
    39 

     Table of Contents  

   our Booking.com and Agoda businesses, as well as higher average daily rates ("ADRs") charged for hotel stays and growth in international car reservations for our rentalcars.com business, which was acquired in May 2010.  Domestic gross bookings increased by   14.0%   for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to growth in gross bookings from our price-disclosed airline ticket and hotel room night reservation services and our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room night and airline ticket reservation services.  Higher ADRs drove growth in gross bookings related to our   Name Your Own Price          hotel business despite a modest year-over-year decline in   Name Your Own Price          hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
    
  Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): 

Agency gross bookings increased   63.3%   for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to growth in the sale of Booking.com hotel room night reservations.  Our U.S. priceline.com business experienced growth in reservations of agency price-disclosed hotel room nights, airline tickets and rental car days.  Merchant gross bookings increased   41.3%   for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to an increase in gross bookings from our Agoda hotel room night reservation service, our rentalcars.com rental car reservation service, our priceline.com merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service and our   Name Your Own Price        hotel room night, airline ticket and rental car reservation services.  Higher ADRs drove growth in gross bookings related to our   Name Your Own Price          hotel business despite a modest year-over-year decline in   Name Your Own Price          hotel room night reservations for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

Hotel room night reservations sold increased by   52.6%   for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, principally due to an increase in the sale of Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations, partially offset by a modest decline in   Name Your Own Price        hotel room night reservations.  Booking.com, our most significant brand, currently includes over   185,000   hotels and accommodations on its website as compared to about   120,000   hotels and accommodations last year (updated hotel counts are available on the Booking.com website).  Booking.com has added hotels over the past year in its core European market as well as higher-growth markets such as North America (which is a newer market for Booking.com), Asia-Pacific and South America.  An increasing amount of our business from a destination and point-of-sale perspective is conducted in these newer markets which are growing faster than our overall growth rate.  Our U.S. priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website.   
    
  Rental car days sold increased by   45.6%   for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, primarily due to the inclusion of rental car day reservations from rentalcars.com, which we acquired in May 2010, as well as an increase in   Name Your Own Price        rental car reservations. 
    
  Airline tickets sold increased by   5.7%   for the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, due to an increase in both price-disclosed and   Name Your Own Price        airline ticket reservations. 
    
    40 

     Table of Contents  

   Revenues 

Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer's credit card for the travel services provided.  Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservations, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with (a) the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service in the U.S. and at Agoda, and (b) the rental car reservations provided through our merchant semi-opaque rental car service at rentalcars.com, which allows customers to see the price of the reservation prior to purchase but not the identity of the supplier; (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of   Name Your Own Price        airline tickets, hotel room reservations and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. 

Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of the travel services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions,  GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above and customer processing fees and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue.  Principally all of the revenue for Booking.com is comprised of travel commissions. 

Other revenues are derived primarily from selling advertising on our websites.  

Merchant Revenues 
    
  Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased   18.5%  , compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in merchant revenues from our Agoda price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service, our rentalcars.com rental car reservation service, our   Name Your Own Price        airline ticket and hotel room night reservation services and our priceline.com price-disclosed hotel room night reservation service. 
     
  Agency Revenues 
    
  Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased   69.4%   compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com.  Our U.S. agency hotel room night reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet on the priceline.com website.   
    
  Other Revenues 
    
  Other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011 consisted primarily of advertising.  Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased   5.8%   compared to the same period in 2010. 
    
     Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit 

41 

     Table of Contents  

Cost of Revenues 
    
  For the year ended December 31, 2011, cost of revenues consisted primarily of: (1) the cost of   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservations from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of   Name Your Own Price        rental cars from our suppliers, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of   Name Your Own Price        airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets.  Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by   8.5%  , compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to the increase in   Name Your Own Price          revenues discussed above.  Merchant price-disclosed hotel room and car rental reservations are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues.  Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues and the addition of rentalcars.com merchant revenue, all of which are recorded on a "net" basis. 
    
  Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. 
    
  Gross Profit 

Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased by   61.3%   compared to the same period in 2010, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above.  Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010 because   Name Your Own Price        revenues, which are recorded "gross" with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed revenues which are primarily recorded "net" with no corresponding cost of revenues.  Because   Name Your Own Price        transactions are reported "gross" and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a "net" basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  Our international operations accounted for approximately $2.6 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011, which compares to approximately $1.4 billion for the same period in 2010.  Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 70% in the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. 
    
  Operating Expenses 
    
  Advertising 

Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (5) e-mail campaigns.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2010, primarily to support increased hotel room night reservations for Booking.com and Agoda, increased rental car day reservations for rentalcars.com and increased hotel room night reservations for priceline.com.  Online advertising as a percentage of gross profit increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010.  The increase is driven primarily  
    42 

     Table of Contents  

   by brand mix rather than a change in the fundamental efficiency of our advertising by brand.  Our international operations are growing faster than our priceline.com business in the U.S., and spend a higher percentage of gross profit on online advertising, a trend which we expect to continue.  Furthermore, the priceline.com brand is obtaining an increasing share of its traffic through online advertising, a trend which we also expect to continue.  We recognize advertising expense as incurred at the time of booking, but recognize the gross profit for price-disclosed hotel room and rental car reservations when the travel is completed.   
    
  Offline advertising expenses are related to our domestic television, print and radio advertising for priceline.com.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, offline advertising was flat compared to the same period in 2010.  We recognize expense for production costs of advertising the first time the advertising takes place.   
    
  Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to increased gross booking volumes as well as expenses related to increased content translations.  Our U.S. merchant business benefited from the impact of reduced credit card processing fees resulting from Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Financial Reform and Consumer Protection Act (which amendment caps the interchange fee for debit card transactions and went into effect on October 1, 2011), partially offset by the impact of higher costs resulting from increases in foreign currency transactions and increased cancellation rates from our Agoda business.  Costs associated with our U.S. priceline.com business comprise a large component of sales and marketing expenses.  Our U.S. priceline.com business grew more slowly than our total gross profit, which benefited from the high growth in our international agency business, and as a result, sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2011 declined compared to the same period in 2010.   
    
  Personnel 

Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2010, due primarily to increased headcount to support the growth of our international businesses.  Stock-based compensation expense was approximately   $65.7 million   for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to   $68.2 million   for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 included charges amounting to   $10.3 million   and   $13.4 million  , respectively, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units.   
    
    43 

     Table of Contents  

   General and Administrative 

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses. General and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2011, over the same period in 2010, due to higher recruiting, training and travel expenses related to increased headcount at Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com.  Additionally, we have significantly increased our office capacity worldwide to support continued growth in our international operations.  The year ended December 31, 2010 included a favorable expense adjustment of approximately $2.7 million in connection with the resolution of certain franchise and sales and use tax issues related to our corporate headquarters location, and a charge of $1.7 million related to a court ruling in South Carolina (see Note   16   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details).    
    
  Information Technology 

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) outsourced data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers;  (2) system maintenance and software license fees; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the increase in information technology expenses compared to the same period in 2010 was due primarily to growth in our worldwide operations. 
    
  Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of:  (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) depreciation on computer equipment; (3) amortization of internally developed and purchased software; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, depreciation expense increased from the same period in 2010 due principally to capital expenditures for additional data center capacity and office build outs to support growth and geographic expansion, principally related to our Booking.com brand.  We expect future capital expenditures to also be higher than historical prior year levels as we continue to invest to support business growth.  In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2011, amortization expense increased from the same period in 2010 due to acquisition-related amortization in connection with our acquisition of rentalcars.com in May 2010.   
    
    44 

     Table of Contents  

   Other Income (Expense) 

For the year ended December 31, 2011, interest income on cash and marketable securities increased over the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in the average balance invested.  Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt resulting from the March 2010 issuance of $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes, and fees on the undrawn $1 billion revolving credit facility entered into in October 2011.    
    
  Derivative contracts that hedge our exposure to the impact of currency fluctuations on the translation of our international operations into U.S. dollars upon consolidation resulted in foreign exchange gains of $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to foreign exchange gains of $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." 
    
  Foreign exchange transaction losses, including costs related to foreign exchange transactions, resulted in losses of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to losses of $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other." 
    
  In addition, losses of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 resulted from convertible debt conversions during 2010, and are recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other."   
    
  During the fourth quarter of 2011, we began classifying certain foreign currency processing fees, amounting to $2.2 million, as an offset to revenue earned from the third party that processes the payments for merchant hotel transactions. 
    
  Income Taxes 

Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were 22.6% and 29.2%, respectively.  Our effective tax rate differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% principally due to lower foreign tax rates, the Innovation Box Tax benefit discussed below, and the resolution of an uncertain tax position during the second quarter of 2011.  Following the conclusion of an audit, we reversed a reserve of approximately $12.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2011 for unrecognized tax benefits attributable to tax positions taken in 2010.  We do not expect further significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during 2012.   
    
  The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 is lower compared to 2010 primarily due to a higher percentage of foreign income, which is taxed at lower rates, the Innovation Box Tax benefit discussed below, and the reversal of the reserve for unrecognized tax benefits referred to above.   
    
  Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax").   Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.0%.  Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment.  The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Period").  In this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in  
    45 

     Table of Contents  

   over a multi-year period.  The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year.   
    
  In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R D") certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are "innovative."  Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com's new or anticipated activities as "innovative" - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency's requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated.  
    
  Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods.  There can be no assurance that Booking.com's application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in 2012 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. 
    
  The Innovation Box Tax did not have a material impact on the our 2010 results.  The impact of the Innovation Box Tax for 2011 reduced our consolidated effective income tax rate by approximately   four   percentage points.  We currently estimate that our consolidated effective tax rate for 2012 will be lower by approximately   four   to   six   percentage points compared to what it would be if we did not have the benefit of the Innovation Box Tax.   
    
  Until our domestic net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, we do not expect to make tax payments on our U.S. income, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes.  However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income.  We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international businesses generate an increasing share of our pre-tax income.   
    
  The Internal Revenue Service initiated an audit of our income taxes for the first time in the third quarter of 2011.  To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant adjustments as a result.  If future audits find that additional taxes are due, we may be subject to incremental tax liabilities, possibly including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 

The net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 increased primarily due to the improved year-over-year operating performance for rentalcars.com. 
    
  Results of Operations 
    
  Year Ended December 31, 2010 compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 
    
  Operating and Statistical Metrics 
    
  Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our domestic and international operations for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): 
    
    46 

     Table of Contents  

Gross bookings increased by 46.6% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, principally due to 52.3% growth in hotel room night reservations.  The 67.3% increase in international gross bookings was attributable to growth in international hotel room night reservations for Booking.com and Agoda (growth on a local currency basis was approximately 73%).  International gross bookings for the year ended December 31, 2010 include $185 million of  gross bookings of TravelJigsaw gross bookings since its acquisition in May 2010.  Domestic gross bookings increased by 14.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to increases in price-disclosed and   Name Your Own Price        hotel room night reservations, and increases in average airline fares, and increases in price-disclosed and   Name Your Own Price        rental car days. 
    
  Gross bookings resulting from hotel room night reservations, rental car days and airline tickets sold through our agency and merchant models for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (numbers may not total due to rounding): 

Agency gross bookings increased 49.9% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to growth in the sale of Booking.com and priceline.com hotel room night reservations and an increase in average airline fares.  Our U.S. agency hotel room reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet into the priceline.com website.  Merchant gross bookings increased 35.2% for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to increases in the sale of Agoda merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations and priceline.com merchant price-disclosed and   Name Your Own Price        hotel room night reservations and the inclusion of gross bookings from TravelJigsaw, which was acquired in May 2010. 

Hotel room night reservations sold increased by 52.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Booking.com agency room night reservations, as well as an increase in the sale of Agoda price-disclosed room night reservations, priceline.com price-disclosed room night reservations and   Name Your Own Price        room night reservations. 
    
  Rental car days sold increased by 45.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, primarily due to the inclusion of rental car day reservations sold by TravelJigsaw, which we acquired in May 2010, and increases in the sale of priceline.com price-disclosed rental car day reservations. 
    
  Airline tickets sold were flat for the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, as a decline in   Name Your Own Price        airline tickets was partially offset by a slight increase in price-disclosed airline tickets. 
    
    47 

     Table of Contents  

   Revenues 
    
  We classify our revenue into three categories: 

Merchant revenues are derived from transactions where we are the merchant of record and therefore charge the customer s credit card for the travel services provided.  Merchant revenues include (1) transaction revenues representing the selling price of   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservations, rental cars and airline tickets and price-disclosed vacation packages; (2) transaction revenues representing the amount charged to a customer, less the amount charged by suppliers in connection with (a) the hotel room reservations provided through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service in the U.S. and at Agoda, and (b) the rental car reservations provided through our merchant semi-opaque rental car service at TravelJigsaw (which allows customers to see the price, car type and location of the reservation prior to purchase, but not the identity of the supplier); (3) customer processing fees charged in connection with the sale of   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservations. airline tickets and rental cars and merchant price-disclosed hotel reservations; and (4) ancillary fees, including GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the services listed above. 

Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where we are not the merchant of record and where the prices of our services are determined by third parties. Agency revenues include travel commissions, customer processing fees and GDS reservation booking fees related to certain of the agency services listed above and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue. 

Other revenues are derived primarily from advertising on our websites. 

Merchant Revenues 
    
  Merchant revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 16.9% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the sale of Agoda and priceline.com merchant price-disclosed hotel room night reservations,   Name Your Own Price        hotel room night reservations and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. 
    
  Agency Revenues 
    
  Agency revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 59.0% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily as a result of growth in the business of Booking.com.  Our U.S. agency hotel room reservations benefited from the integration of U.S. hotels from the Booking.com extranet into the priceline.com website. 
    
  Other Revenues 
    
  Other revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010 consisted primarily of advertising.  Other revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased 43.1% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily as a result of the termination of a relationship with a post-transaction online advertising partner in September 2009. 
    
    48 

     Table of Contents  

   Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit 

Cost of Revenues 
    
  For the year ended December 31, 2010, cost of revenues consisted primarily of charges from suppliers for: (1) the cost of   Name Your Own Price        hotel room reservations, net of applicable taxes, (2) the cost of   Name Your Own Price        rental cars, net of applicable taxes; and (3) the cost of   Name Your Own Price        airline tickets, net of the federal air transportation tax, segment fees and passenger facility charges imposed in connection with the sale of airline tickets.  Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 9.1%, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to the increase in merchant revenue discussed above.  Merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues in the U.S. and for Agoda and merchant semi-opaque rental car reservations for TravelJigsaw are recorded in merchant revenues net of the amounts paid to suppliers and therefore, there is no associated cost of revenues for merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues.  Cost of revenues as a percentage of their associated merchant revenues decreased primarily due to the increase in merchant price-disclosed hotel revenues and the addition of TravelJigsaw merchant revenues, all of which are recorded on a "net" basis. 
    
  Agency revenues are recorded at their net amount, which are amounts received less amounts paid to suppliers, if any, and therefore, there are no costs of agency revenues. 
    
  Gross Profit 

Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased by 51.4% compared to the same period in 2009, primarily as a result of increased revenue discussed above.  Total gross margin (gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue) increased during the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, because   Name Your Own Price        revenues, which are recorded "gross" with a corresponding cost of revenue, represented a smaller percentage of total revenues compared to retail, price-disclosed agency and merchant revenues which are primarily recorded "net" with no corresponding cost of revenues.  Because   Name Your Own Price        transactions are reported "gross" and retail transactions are primarily recorded on a "net" basis, we believe that gross profit has become an increasingly important measure of evaluating growth in our business.  Our international operations accounted for approximately $1.4 billion of our gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2010, which compares to approximately $848.6 million for the same period in 2009.  Gross profit attributable to our international operations increased, on a local currency basis, by approximately 77% in the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009. 
    
    49 

     Table of Contents  

   Operating Expenses 
    
  Advertising 

Offline advertising expenses consist primarily of: (1) the expenses associated with domestic television, print and radio advertising; and (2) the cost for creative talent, production costs and agency fees for television, print and radio advertising.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, offline advertising expenses were generally flat compared to the same period in 2009.  Online advertising expenses primarily consist of the costs of (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) affiliate programs; (3) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (4) e-mail campaigns.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, online advertising expenses increased over the same period in 2009, primarily to support increased gross bookings for Booking.com, Agoda and priceline.com, as well as the inclusion of online advertising expense for TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010. 
    
  Sales and Marketing 

Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, sales and marketing expenses, which are substantially variable in nature, increased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to increased credit card processing fees, third-party service costs and bad debt provision associated with increased gross booking volumes. 
    
  Personnel 

Personnel expenses consist of compensation to our personnel, including salaries, bonuses, taxes, employee health benefits and stock-based compensation. For the year ended December 31, 2010, personnel expenses increased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to increased headcount to support the growth of our business, higher bonus accruals reflecting our strong operating performance, and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010.  Stock-based compensation expense was approximately $68.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and $40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009.  Stock-based compensation for the year ended December 31, 2010 includes charges amounting to $13.4 million, representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units. 
    
    50 

     Table of Contents  

   General and Administrative 

General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: (1) fees for outside professionals, including litigation expenses; (2) occupancy expenses; and (3) personnel-related expenses such as recruiting, training and travel expenses.  General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 included a favorable adjustment of approximately $2.7 million in connection with the resolution of certain franchise tax and sales and use tax issues related to our corporate headquarters location and a charge of $1.7 million related to a court ruling in South Carolina (see Note   16   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details).  General and administrative expenses for the same period in 2009 included a charge of $3.7 million related to a judgment in a lawsuit involving hotel occupancy taxes.  Excluding these items, general and administrative expenses increased during the year ended December 31, 2010, over the same period in 2009, due to professional fees incurred in the second quarter 2010 related to the acquisition of TravelJigsaw, increased personnel-related expenses and occupancy expenses to support the growth in our Booking.com and Agoda operations, and the inclusion of TravelJigsaw since its acquisition in May 2010, partially offset by a decrease in litigation expenses primarily related to hotel occupancy tax and other tax proceedings. 
    
  Information Technology 

Information technology expenses consist primarily of: (1) system maintenance and software license fees; (2) outsourced data center costs relating to our domestic and international data centers; (3) data communications and other expenses associated with operating our Internet sites; and (4) payments to outside consultants. For the year ended December 31, 2010, information technology expenses increased compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to growth in our worldwide operations. 
    
  Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation and amortization expenses consist of:  (1) amortization of intangible assets with determinable lives; (2) amortization of internally developed and purchased software, (3) depreciation of computer equipment; and (4) depreciation of leasehold improvements, office equipment and furniture and fixtures.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, depreciation and amortization expense increased from the same period in 2009, primarily due to acquisition-related amortization in connection with our acquisition of TravelJigsaw. 
    
    51 

     Table of Contents  

   Other Income (Expense) 

For the year ended December 31, 2010, interest income increased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the average balance of cash and marketable securities invested.  Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in the average outstanding debt.  "Foreign currency transactions and other" includes foreign exchange gains of $3.0 million and losses of $2.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to foreign exchange derivative contracts.  Foreign exchange transaction losses including fees on foreign exchange transactions were approximately $6.1 million and $2.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The early conversion of convertible debt resulted in losses of $11.3 million and $1.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
    
  Income Taxes 

Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was 29.2% and (10.7)%, respectively, and differs from the expected tax provision at the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35%, principally due to lower foreign tax rates, partially offset by state income taxes and certain non-deductible expenses.  The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2009 included a benefit of $183.3 million, resulting from the reversal of a portion of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets relating to net operating loss carryforwards.  Excluding the aforementioned $183.3 million benefit in 2009, the effective income tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to a higher percentage of foreign income which is taxed at lower rates. 
    
  Due to our domestic net operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to make tax payments on our U.S. income for the foreseeable future, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes.  However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income.  We expect that Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will continue to increase as our international operations generate an increasing share of our pretax income. 
    
  Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities (the "Innovation Box Tax").   Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.5% (25% as of 2011).  Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment.  The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Period"). In this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in over a multi-year period.  The Innovation Box Tax did not have a material impact on our 2010 results.  The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year. 
    
  In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R D ) certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are "innovative."  Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period - for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com s new or anticipated activities as "innovative" - or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated  
    52 

     Table of Contents  

   to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency s requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. 
    
  After the Initial Period, Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods.  There can be no assurance that Booking.com s application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time.   In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit.  
    
  Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests 

Noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2010, represents the proportionate share of the net income of TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited for the period of May 18, 2010 through December 31, 2010, applicable to the noncontrolling interests (refer to Note   13   of the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
    
    Liquidity and Capital Resources 
    
  As of December 31, 2011, we had $2.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.  Approximately $1.6 billion of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are held by our international subsidiaries and are denominated primarily in Euros and, to a lesser extent, in British Pound Sterling.  We currently intend to permanently reinvest this cash in our foreign operations.  We could not repatriate this cash to the U.S. without utilizing our net operating loss carryforwards and potentially incurring additional tax payments in the U.S.   Cash equivalents and short-term investments are primarily comprised of foreign and U.S. government securities and bank deposits.   
    
  In October 2011, we entered into a $1 billion five-year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders.  Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at our option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.00% to 1.50%; or (ii) the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate, (b) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus 1.00%, plus an applicable margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.50%.  Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from 0.10% to 0.25%. 
    
  The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $50 million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans.  Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders.  The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2011, there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $1.9 million of letters of credit were issued under the facility.  Upon entering into this new revolving credit facility, we terminated our $175.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in 2007 (see Note   11   to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
    
  As of December 31, 2011, we have a remaining authorization from our Board of Directors to repurchase $459.2 million of our common stock.  We may from time to time make additional repurchases of our common stock, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital, and other factors. 
    
  Our merchant transactions are structured such that we collect cash up front from our customers and then we pay most of our suppliers at a subsequent date.  We therefore tend to experience significant swings in deferred merchant bookings and supplier payables depending on the absolute level of our merchant transactions during the last few weeks of every quarter.   
    
  Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, was $1.3 billion, resulting from net income of $1.1 billion and net favorable changes in working capital of $84.8 million, and a favorable impact of $197.9 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows.   For the year ended December 31, 2011, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $209.5 million, partially offset by a $125.8 million increase in accounts receivable.  The increase in these working capital balances was primarily related to increases in business volumes.   Non-cash items were  
    53 

     Table of Contents  

   principally associated with deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and amortization of debt discount of our convertible notes.  
    
  Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, was $777.3 million, resulting from net income of $528.1 million and net favorable changes in working capital of $50.9 million, and a net favorable impact of $198.3 million for non-cash items not affecting cash flows.  Non-cash items include deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, primarily from acquisition-related intangible assets, amortization of debt discount and loss on conversions of our convertible notes.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities increased by $84.8 million, primarily related to higher deferred merchant bookings and accrued expenses as our business continues to expand.  Other changes in working capital for the year ended December 31, 2010 include an increase in other assets and liabilities of $17.8 million, principally related to an increase in long-term liabilities, partially offset by a $29.3 million increase in accounts receivable, and a $22.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets.  The increase in accounts receivable is primarily due to the growth in the size of our business.  The increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets is primarily related to the timing and amount of tax payments and increases in business volume. 
    
  Net cash used in investing activities was $904.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 were affected by payments of $68.2 million for acquisitions,  principally related to the contingent consideration associated with the 2007 acquisition of Agoda, $11.0 million net payments to settle derivative contracts, net purchases of investments of $775.8 million, and a change in restricted cash of $2.9 million.   Net cash used in investing activities was $841.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 were affected by $741.4 million net purchases of marketable securities and a payment of $112.4 million for acquisitions and other equity investments, net of cash acquired, partially offset by $35.0 million net proceeds from foreign currency forward contracts and a $0.3 million change in restricted cash.  Cash invested in purchase of property and equipment was $46.8 million and $22.6 million in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The increase in 2011 is to support the growth of our business, including additional data center capacity and capital expenditures for new offices opened during the year, a trend we expect to continue to support business growth.  
    
  Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $151.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  The cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily related to treasury stock purchases of $163.2 million, approximately $13.0 million spent to purchase a portion of the shares underlying redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com, and $0.2 million of principal paid upon the conversion of senior notes, partially offset by $4.3 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and $21.0 million of excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation.  Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $213.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.  The cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily related to proceeds from the issuance of convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $575.0 million, $43.0 million of proceeds from the termination of conversion spread hedges, $25.8 million of proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, $3.1 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and proceeds of $4.3 million from the sale of subsidiary shares to noncontrolling interests, partially offset by $295.4 million paid upon the conversion of senior notes, $129.5 million of treasury stock purchases and $13.3 million of debt issuance costs.   
    
  Contingencies 
    
  A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against us related to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax).  In addition, a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes.  To date, the majority of taxing jurisdictions in which we facilitate the making of hotel room reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on our U.S. "merchant" hotel business.  With respect to jurisdictions that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from us only on a prospective basis.  See Item 3 -   Legal Proceedings   and Note   16   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings, and Item 1A Risk Factors     - "Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation" in this Annual Report. 
    
  We are vigorously defending against these claims and proceedings.  However, litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows in any given operating period.  Also, there have been, and will continue to be, ongoing costs associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. 
    54 

     Table of Contents  

To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligations from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotels services less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on "merchant" hotel transactions.  Either step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
    
  As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, we have established an accrual which amounted to approximately $33 million and $26 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The accrual  is based on our estimate of the ultimate cost of resolving these issues.  The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded.  We believe that even if we were to suffer adverse determinations in the near term in more of the pending proceedings than currently anticipated given results to date, because of our available cash, it would not have a material impact on our liquidity. 
    
  The following table represents our material contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2011 (see Note   16   to the Consolidated Financial Statements): 

_____________________________ 
           (1) 
    Convertible debt represents the aggregate principal amount of the Notes and interest of $9.3 million.  See Note   11   to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
              (2) 
    Represents fees on uncommitted funds and outstanding letters of credit as of December 31, 2011. 
              (3) 
    We reported "Other long-term liabilities" of $39 million on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011, of which approximately $33 million related to our accrual for potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other hotel-related transaction taxes (refer to Note   16   to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and approximately $3 million related to unrecognized tax benefits (refer to Note   15   to the Consolidated Financial Statements).   A variety of factors could affect the timing of payments for these liabilities.  We believe that these matters will likely not be resolved in the next twelve months and accordingly we have classified the estimated liability as "non-current" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  We have excluded "Other long-term liabilities" in the amount of $39 million from the contractual obligations table because we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such payments.   
       
  Since the contingent conversion threshold for the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 was exceeded as of December 31, 2011, these notes are convertible at the option of the holders.  If the holders elect to convert, we will be required to pay the aggregate principal amount in cash and we will deliver cash or shares of common stock, at our option, for the conversion value in excess of the aggregate principal amount.  We would likely fund our conversion obligations with cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and borrowings under our revolving credit facility.   
    
  We believe that our existing cash balances and liquid resources will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, capital expenditures and other obligations through at least the next twelve months.  However, if during that period or thereafter, we are not successful in generating sufficient cash flow from operations or in raising additional capital when required in sufficient amounts and on terms acceptable to us, we may be required to reduce our planned capital expenditures and scale back the scope of our business plan, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition or results of operations.  If additional funds were raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our then current stockholders would be diluted.  There are no assurances that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, that revenue growth or sustained profitability will be realized or that future borrowings or equity sales will be available in amounts sufficient to make anticipated capital expenditures, finance our strategies or repay our indebtedness. 
    
    55 

     Table of Contents  

   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. 
    
  As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 
    
    Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
    
  We manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency risk through internally established policies and procedures and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.  We use foreign exchange derivative contracts to manage short-term foreign currency risk. 
    
  The objective of our policies is to mitigate potential income statement, cash flow and fair value exposures resulting from possible future adverse fluctuations in rates.  We evaluate our exposure to market risk by assessing the anticipated near-term and long-term fluctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.  This evaluation includes the review of leading market indicators, discussions with financial analysts and investment bankers regarding current and future economic conditions and the review of market projections as to expected future rates.  We utilize this information to determine our own investment strategies as well as to determine if the use of derivative financial instruments is appropriate to mitigate any potential future market exposure that we may face. Our policy does not allow speculation in derivative instruments for profit or execution of derivative instrument contracts for which there are no underlying exposures.  We do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives.  To the extent that changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates affect general economic conditions, the Priceline Group would also be affected by such changes. 
    
  We did not experience any material changes in interest rate exposures during the year ended December 31, 2011.  Based upon economic conditions and leading market indicators at December 31, 2011, we do not foresee a significant adverse change in interest rates in the near future. 
    
  Fixed rate investments are subject to unrealized gains and losses due to interest rate volatility.  We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the impact a change in interest rates would have on the fair value of our available for sale investments assuming an adverse change of 100 basis points.  A hypothetical 100 basis points (1.0%) increase in interest rates would have resulted in a decrease in the fair values of our investments as of December 31, 2011 of approximately $8 million.  These hypothetical losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to their maturity. 
    
  As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding principal amount of our debt is $575 million.  We estimate that the market value of such debt was approximately $0.9 billion as of December 31, 2011.  A substantial portion of the market value of our debt in excess of the outstanding principal amount is related to the conversion premium on our outstanding convertible bonds. 
    
  As a result of the growth of Booking.com and Agoda, and the acquisition of rentalcars.com, we are conducting a significant portion of our business outside the United States through subsidiaries with functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar (primarily Euros).  As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation.  If the U.S. Dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income.  Similarly, our net assets, gross bookings, gross profit, operating expenses, and net income will decrease if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against local currency.  Additionally, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.  Booking.com, Agoda and rentalcars.com are subject to risks typical of international business, including, but not limited to, differing economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. 
    
  From time to time, we enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to minimize the impact of short-term foreign currency fluctuations on our consolidated operating results.  Our derivative contracts principally address foreign exchange fluctuation risk for the Euro and the British Pound Sterling.  As of December 31, 2011, there were no outstanding derivative contracts.  As of December 31, 2010, these derivatives, which were not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes, resulted in a liability of $0.2 million, recorded in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities".   Foreign exchange gains of $4.0 million and $2.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and foreign exchange losses of $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009  were recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  
    
    56 

     Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had outstanding forward currency contracts designated as hedging contracts for accounting purposes with a notional value of 860 million Euros and 378 million Euros, respectively, to hedge a portion of our net investment in a foreign subsidiary.  These contracts are all short-term in nature.  Mark-to-market adjustments on these net investment hedges are recorded as currency translation adjustments.  The fair value of these derivatives at December 31, 2011 was an asset of $60.1 million and was recorded in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  The net fair value of these derivatives at December 31, 2010 was a net liability of $2.8 million, with assets of $4.0 million recorded in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" and liabilities of $6.8 million recorded in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. Dollar, with all other variables held constant, would have resulted in a derivative liability of approximately $34 million as of December 31, 2011.  See Note   5   to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on our derivative instruments. 
    
    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
    
  The following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (See Item 15). 
    
  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010; Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
    
    Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
    
  None. 
    
    Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 
    
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures  . Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).  Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.  
    
  Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we include a report of our management's assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Our independent registered public accounting firm also attested to, and reported on, our management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.    Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  
    
  Based on our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  Changes in Internal Controls.    No change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2011 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  

57 

     Table of Contents  

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  priceline.com Incorporated 
  Norwalk, Connecticut 
    
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in "Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting" appearing in Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
    
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of the Company and our report dated February 27, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  Stamford, Connecticut 
  February 27, 2012 
    
    Item 9B. Other Information 
    
  None. 
    
    58 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
    
    Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
    
  Information required by Part III, Item 10, will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    Item 11. Executive Compensation 
    
  Information required by Part III, Item 11, will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
    
  Information required by Part III, Item 12, will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
    
  Information required by Part III, Item 13, will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
    
  Information required by Part III, Item 14, will be included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    59 

       Table of Contents  

   PART IV 
    
    Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 
    
  (a)                                      List of Documents Filed as a Part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 
    
  The following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and the report of our independent registered public accounting firm are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
    
  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010; and the related Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders  Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
    
  All financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable, not material or the required information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto. 
    
  (b)                                     Exhibits 
    
  In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and: 
               
    should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; 
                  
    have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which   -   disclosures   -   are   -   not necessarily reflected in the agreement; 
                  
    may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and 
                  
    were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. 
     Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about the Company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the Company's other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov.    
                 Exhibit Number 
    Description 
      3.1(a) 
    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant. 
      3.2(b) 
    Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 13, 2003. 
      3.3(w) 
    Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 3, 2009. 
      3.4 
    Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant. 
      4.1 
    Reference is hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3. 
      4.2(a) 
    Specimen Certificate for Registrant's Common Stock. 
      4.3(y) 
    Indenture, dated as of March 10, 2010, between the Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, LLC as Trustee. 
      10.1(a)+ 
    1997 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant. 
      10.2(c)+ 
    1999 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant, as amended. 
      10.3(d)+ 
    Priceline.com 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan. 
      10.4(c)+ 
    Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement. 
      10.5(c)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants to Board of Directors. 
      10.6(e)+ 
    Form of Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.). 
      10.7(e)+ 
    Form of Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.). 

60 

     Table of Contents  

                  Exhibit Number 
    Description 
      10.8(e)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement with covenants (U.S.). 
      10.9(e)+ 
    Restricted Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the Registrant. 
      10.10(f)+ 
    Stock Option and Restricted Stock Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, by and between the Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr. 
      10.11(e)+ 
    Restricted Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and the Registrant. 
      10.12(g)+ 
    Employment Agreement, dated February 8, 2006, by and between the Registrant and Peter J. Millones. 
      10.13(g)+ 
    Form of priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for Non-Employee Directors. 
      10.14(h) 
    Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston International and the Registrant. 
      10.15(h) 
    Schedule to the Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003 between Credit Suisse First Boston International and the Registrant. 
      10.16(h) 
    Letter Agreement, dated November 26, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston International and priceline.com Incorporated. 
      10.17(i)+ 
    Stock Option Grant Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna. 
      10.18(j)+ 
    Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between the Registrant and Daniel J. Finnegan. 
      10.19(j)+ 
    Restricted Stock Grant Agreement, dated October 19, 2005, reflecting grant of restricted stock to Daniel J. Finnegan. 
      10.20(k)+ 
    Form of Registrant's 1999 Omnibus Plan Award Agreement - Restricted Stock Units for Employees in the Netherlands. 
      10.21(l)+ 
    Form of Performance Share Agreement under the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan. 
      10.22(m) 
    Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.23(m) 
    Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.24(m) 
    Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.25(m) 
    Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.26(n) 
    Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.27(n) 
    Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.28(o)+ 
    Priceline.com Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated as of February 20, 2007. 
      10.29(p)+ 
    Performance share unit agreement dated December 1, 2007. 
      10.30(q)*+ 
    Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company's consolidated operations. 
      10.31(q)*+ 
    Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company's domestic operations on an unconsolidated basis. 
      10.32(q)*+ 
    Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of Agoda Company Ltd., Agoda Company Pte. Ltd. and Agoda Services Co. Ltd. 
      10.33(r)+ 
    priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective June 4, 2008). 
      10.34(s)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to non-U.S. participants under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended. 
      10.35(t)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated August 22, 2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd. 
      10.36(t)+ 
    Performance share unit agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd. 
      10.37(u)+ 
    Letter amendment, dated December 18, 2008, to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd. 

61 

     Table of Contents  

                  Exhibit Number 
    Description 
      10.38(u)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Peter J. Millones. 
      10.39(u)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Chris Soder. 
      10.40(u)+ 
    Letter amendment, dated December 16, 2008, to Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between priceline.com and Daniel J. Finnegan. 
      10.41(u)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Contract, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen. 
      10.42(v)+ 
    Form of 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to Messrs. Boyd and Mylod under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended. 
      10.43(x)+ 
    Indemnification Agreement, dated November 10, 2009, between priceline.com Incorporated and Kees Koolen. 
      10.44(y) 
    Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 4, 2010, between the Registrant and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the initial purchasers named therein. 
      10.45(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Registrant's consolidated operations. 
      10.46(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Registrant's consolidated operations. 
      10.47(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Registrant's domestic operations on an unconsolidated basis. 
      10.48(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of Booking.com B.V. 
      10.49(aa)+ 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, to certain U.S.-based executives. 
      10.50(aa)+ 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, to Netherlands-based executive. 
      10.51(aa)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, to non-employee directors 
      10.52(bb)+ 
    Employment Contract, dated September 12, 2011, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Darren Huston 
      10.53(bb)+ 
    Indemnification Agreement, dated September 12, 2011, by and between the Registrant and Darren Huston. 
      10.54(bb) 
    Credit Agreement, dated as of October 28, 2011, among the Registrant, the lenders from time to time party thereto, RBS Citizens, N.A., as Documentation Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co Syndication Agents and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. 
      10.55(bb)+ 
    Second Amended and Restated Employment Contract, dated November 4, 2011, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Kees Koolen. 
      21 
    List of Subsidiaries. 
      23.1 
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 
      24.1 
    Power of Attorney (included in the Signature Page). 
      31.1 
    Certificate of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      31.2 
    Certificate of Daniel J. Finnegan, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      32.1(cc) 
    Certification of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code). 
      32.2(cc) 
    Certification of Daniel J. Finnegan, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code). 
      101 
    The following financial statements from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

____________________________ 
    
    62 

     Table of Contents  

* 
    Certain portions of this document have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 24b 2. The omitted confidential material has been filed separately with the Commission. 
              + 
    Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

63 

       Table of Contents  

   Signatures 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 

By: 
    /s/ Jeffery H. Boyd 

Name: 
    Jeffery H. Boyd 

Title: 
    Chief Executive Officer 

Date: 
    February 27, 2012 

Power of Attorney 
    
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Jeffery H. Boyd, Daniel J. Finnegan and Peter J. Millones, and each of them severally, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact with power of substitution and resubstitution to sign in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all things and execute any and all instruments that such attorney may deem necessary or advisable under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any rules, regulations and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments hereto, as fully and for all intents and purposes as he or she might do or could do in person, and hereby ratifies and confirms all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, each acting alone, and his or her substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
    
    64 

       Table of Contents  

                        Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

/s/ Ralph M. Bahna 
      
    Chairman 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Ralph M. Bahna 
      
    and Director 

/s/ Jeffery H. Boyd 
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer and 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Jeffery H. Boyd 
      
    Director (Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ Daniel J. Finnegan 
      
    Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Daniel J. Finnegan 
      
    Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/ Howard W. Barker, Jr. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Howard W. Barker, Jr. 

/s/ Jan L. Docter 
      
    Director 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Jan L. Docter 

/s/ Jeffrey E. Epstein 
      
    Director 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Jeffrey E. Epstein 

/s/ James M. Guyette 
      
    Director 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      James M. Guyette 

/s/ Nancy B. Peretsman 
      
    Director 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Nancy B. Peretsman 

/s/ Craig W. Rydin 
      
    Director 
      
    February 27, 2012 
      Craig W. Rydin 

65 

       Table of Contents  

   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

66 

       Table of Contents  

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  priceline.com Incorporated 
  Norwalk, Connecticut 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated   February 27, 2012   expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  Stamford, Connecticut 
  February 27, 2012    
    
    67 

       Table of Contents  

   priceline.com Incorporated 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (In thousands, except share and per share data) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    68 

       Table of Contents  

   priceline.com Incorporated 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
  (In thousands, except per share data) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    69 

       Table of Contents  

   priceline.com Incorporated 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
  (In thousands)    

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    70 

       Table of Contents  

   priceline.com Incorporated 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (In thousands) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    71 

       Table of Contents  

   priceline.com Incorporated 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
             1.     
    BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 
       
  Priceline.com Incorporated (the "Priceline Group", or the "Company") is a leading online travel company that offers its customers hotel room reservations at over   210,000   hotels worldwide through the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands.  In the United States, the Company also offers its customers reservations for car rentals, airline tickets, vacation packages, destination services and cruises through the priceline.com brand.  The Company offers car rental reservations worldwide through rentalcars.com (formerly known as TravelJigsaw), which we acquired in May 2010.  
    
             2.    
    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
       
  Basis of Presentation     The Company s Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including without limitation, priceline.com International Ltd. ("priceline.com International"), Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, priceline.com Europe Ltd, priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as Agoda Company, Ltd.) ("Agoda"), and its majority-owned interest in TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited (known now as the rentalcars.com business) since its acquisition in May 2010.  All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  Investments in affiliates in which the Company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence, are accounted for by the equity method. 
    
  Use of Estimates     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and footnotes thereto.  Actual results may differ significantly from those estimates.  The significant estimates underlying the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements relate to, among other things, the Company s deferred tax valuation allowance, the Company s accounting for state and local hotel occupancy and sales taxes, stock-based compensation, the Company s allowance for doubtful accounts, the valuation of goodwill and long-lived assets and intangibles and the valuation of redeemable noncontrolling interests. 
    
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments     The Company s financial instruments, including cash, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred merchant bookings, are carried at cost which approximates their fair value because of the short-term nature of these financial instruments.  See Notes   4  ,   5  ,   11   and   13   for information on fair value for investments, derivatives, the Company s outstanding Convertible Senior Notes, and redeemable noncontrolling interests. 
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents     Cash and cash equivalents consists primarily of cash and highly liquid investment grade securities with an original maturity of three months or less. 
    
  Restricted Cash     Restricted cash at   December 31, 2011   and   2010   collateralizes office leases and supplier obligations. 
    
  Investments     The Company has classified its investments as available-for-sale securities.  These securities are carried at estimated fair value with the aggregate unrealized gains and losses related to these investments, net of taxes, reflected as a part of "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" within stockholders  equity. 
    
  The fair value of the investments is based on the specific quoted market price of the securities or comparable securities at the balance sheet dates.  Investments in debt securities are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value is judged to be other than temporary because the Company either intends to sell or it is more-likely-than not that it will have to sell the impaired security before recovery.  Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary, an impairment charge is recorded and a new cost basis in the investment is established.   If the Company does not intend to sell the debt security, but it is probable that the Company will not collect all amounts due, then only the impairment due to the credit risk would be recognized in earnings and the remaining amount of the impairment would be recognized in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" within stockholders  equity.   The marketable securities are presented as current assets on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets, if they are available to meet the short-term working capital needs of the Company.  Investments with a maturity date greater than one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term investments.  See Notes   4   and   5   for further detail of investments. 
    
  Property and Equipment     Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.  Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of  
    72 

     Table of Contents  

   the assets or, when applicable, the life of the lease, whichever is shorter. 
    
  Goodwill     The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values.  Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.  The Company s Consolidated Financial Statements reflect an acquired business starting at the date of the acquisition. 
    
  Goodwill is not subject to amortization and is reviewed at least annually for impairment, or earlier if an event occurs or circumstances change and there is an indication of impairment.  The Company tests goodwill at a reporting unit level.  The fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying value, including goodwill.  Fair values are determined based on discounted cash flows, market multiples or appraised values and are based on market participant assumptions.  An impairment is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill.  See Note   9   for further information. 
    
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangible Assets     The Company reviews long-lived assets and amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.  The assessment of possible impairment is based upon the Company s ability to recover the carrying value of the assets from the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, before interest and taxes, of the related operations.  The amount of impairment loss, if any, is measured as the excess of the carrying value of the asset over the present value of estimated future cash flows, using a discount rate commensurate with the risks involved and based on assumptions representative of market participants. 
    
  Software Capitalization     Certain direct development costs associated with internal-use software are capitalized and include external direct costs of services and payroll costs for employees devoting time to the software projects principally related to software coding, designing system interfaces and installation and testing of the software.  These costs are recorded as property and equipment and are generally amortized over a period of three to five years beginning when the asset is substantially ready for use. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, as well as maintenance and training costs, are expensed as incurred. 
    
  Merchant Revenues and Cost of Merchant Revenues 
    
  Name Your Own Price        Services  :  Merchant revenues for   Name Your Own Price        services and related cost of revenues are derived from transactions where the Company is the merchant of record and, among other things, selects suppliers and determines the price it will accept from the customer.  The Company recognizes such revenues and costs if and when it fulfills the customer s non-refundable offer.  Merchant revenues and cost of merchant revenues include the selling price and cost, respectively, of the travel services and are reported on a gross basis.  In very limited circumstances, the Company makes 
  certain customer accommodations to satisfy disputes and complaints.  The Company accrues for such estimated losses and classifies the resulting expense as adjustments to merchant revenue and cost of merchant revenues.  Pursuant to the terms of the Company s hotel service, its hotel suppliers are permitted to bill the Company for the underlying cost of the service during a specified period of time.  In the event that the Company is not billed by its hotel supplier within the specified time period, the Company reduces its cost of revenues by the unbilled amounts. 
    
  Merchant Price-Disclosed Services  :  Merchant revenues for the Company s merchant price-disclosed services are derived from transactions where its customers purchase hotel room reservations or rental car reservations from suppliers at disclosed rates which are subject to contractual arrangements.  Charges are billed to customers at the time of booking and are included in deferred merchant bookings until the customer completes the hotel stay or returns the rental car.  Such amounts are generally refundable upon cancellation, subject to cancellation penalties in certain cases.  Merchant revenues and accounts payable to the supplier are recognized at the conclusion of the customer s stay at the hotel or return of the rental car.  The Company records the difference between the customer selling price and the supplier cost of its merchant price-disclosed reservation services on a net basis in merchant revenue. 
    
  Agency Revenues 
    
  Agency revenues are derived from travel related transactions where the Company is not the merchant of record and where the prices of the services sold are determined by third parties.  Agency revenues include travel commissions, global distribution system ("GDS") reservation booking fees and customer processing fees, and are reported at the net amounts received, without any associated cost of revenue.  Such revenues are generally recognized by the Company when the customers complete their travel. 
    
    73 

     Table of Contents  

   Tax Recovery Charge, Occupancy Taxes and State and Local Taxes 
    
  The Company provides an internet travel service to facilitate online travel purchases between consumers and travel suppliers, including airline ticket, hotel and rental car reservations, and sometimes as part of a vacation package reservation.  For merchant model transactions, the Company charges the customer an amount intended to cover the taxes that the Company anticipates the service provider will owe and remit to the local taxing authorities ("tax recovery charge").  Tax rate information for calculating the tax recovery charge is provided to the Company by its suppliers. 
    
  In a handful of taxing jurisdictions, the Company recently was required by passage of a new statute or by court order to start collecting and remitting certain taxes (local occupancy tax and/or sales tax) imposed upon its margin and/or service fee.  In those jurisdictions, the Company is collecting and remitting tax on its margin and/or service fee.  Except in those jurisdictions, the Company does not charge the customer or remit occupancy or other taxes based on its margin or service fee, because the Company believes that such taxes are not owed on its compensation for its services (refer to Note   16  ).  The tax recovery charge and occupancy and sales taxes collected from customers and remitted to those jurisdictions are reported on a net basis on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
    
  Advertising - Online     Online advertising expenses consist primarily of the costs of  (1) search engine keyword purchases; (2) referrals from meta-search sites and travel research websites; (3) affiliate programs; (4) banner and pop-up advertisements; and (5) email campaigns.   Online advertising expense is generally recognized as incurred.  Included in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are accrued online advertising liabilities of   $69.2 million   and   $64.3 million   at   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , respectively. 
    
  Advertising - Offline     Offline advertising expenses are comprised primarily of costs of domestic television, print, and radio advertising for priceline.com.  The Company expenses the production costs of advertising the first time the advertising takes place. 
    
  Sales and Marketing     Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of (1) credit card processing fees associated with merchant transactions; (2) fees paid to third-parties that provide call center, website content translations and other services; (3) provisions for credit card chargebacks; and (4) provisions for bad debt, primarily related to agency hotel commission receivables. 
    
  Personnel     Personnel expenses consist of compensation to the Company s personnel, including salaries, bonuses, payroll taxes, employee health insurance and other benefits, and stock based compensation.  Included in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are accrued compensation liabilities of $  65.7 million   and $  54.6 million   at   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , respectively. 
    
  Stock-Based Compensation     The cost of stock-based transactions are recognized in the financial statements based upon fair value.  The fair value of restricted stock, performance share units and restricted stock units is determined based on the number of units or shares, as applicable, granted and the quoted price of the Company s common stock as of the grant date.  Stock-based compensation related to performance share units reflects the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period.  The fair value of stock options is determined as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes valuation model.  Fair value is recognized as expense on a straight line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the employee requisite service period. 
    
  The fair value at grant date for restricted stock units with a market condition is estimated, based on the complexity of the award, using both closed-form models and lattice models.  All compensation cost for an award that has a market condition is recognized as stock based compensation cost if the requisite service period is fulfilled, even if the market condition is never satisfied. 
    
  The benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation costs are reported as a credit to additional paid-in capital and as financing cash flows, but only when such excess tax benefits are realized by a reduction to current taxes payable.  See Note   3   for further information on stock-based awards. 
    
  Information Technology     Information technology expenses are comprised primarily of outsourced data center costs, system maintenance and software license fees, data communications and other expenses associated with operating the Company s Internet sites and payments to outside contractors. Such costs are expensed as incurred. 
    
    74 

     Table of Contents  

   Income Taxes     The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method.  The Company records the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred taxes are classified as current or noncurrent based on the balance sheet classification of the related assets and liabilities. 
    
  The Company records deferred tax assets to the extent it believes these assets will more likely than not be realized.  The Company regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences, the carryforward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and tax planning strategies.  A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.  The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets depends on the generation of future taxable income during the period in which related temporary differences become deductible.  In determining the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the financial statements or tax returns, significant judgments, estimates, and interpretation of statutes are required. 
    
  Deferred taxes are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date of such change. 
    
  Income taxes are not accrued for unremitted earnings of international operations that have been or are intended to be reinvested indefinitely. 
    
  The Company recognizes liabilities when it believes that uncertain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by the tax authorities.  Liabilities recognized for uncertain tax positions are based on a two step approach for recognition and measurement.  First, the Company evaluates the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit based on its technical merits.  Secondly, the Company measures the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than   50  % likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  Interest and penalties attributable to uncertain tax positions, if any, are recognized as a component of income tax expense.  See Note   15   for further details on income taxes. 
    
  Segment Reporting     The Company operates and manages its business as a single reportable unit. Operating segments that have similar economic characteristics are aggregated.   For geographic related information, see Note   18   to the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  Foreign Currency Translation     The functional currency of the Company s foreign subsidiaries is generally their respective local currency.  Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of exchange existing at the balance sheet date.  Income statement amounts are translated at average monthly exchange rates applicable for the period.  Translation gains and losses are included as a component of "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
    
  Derivative Financial Instruments     As a result of the Company s international operations, it is exposed to various market risks that may affect its consolidated results of operations, cash flow and financial position.  These market risks include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  The Company s primary foreign currency exposures are in Euros and British Pound Sterling, in which it conducts a significant portion of its business activities.  As a result, the Company faces exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of its international operations are translated from local currency into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation.  Additionally, foreign exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in income. 
    
  The Company may enter into derivative instruments to hedge certain net exposures of nonfunctional currency denominated assets and liabilities and the volatility associated with translating foreign earnings into U.S. Dollars, even though it does not elect to apply hedge accounting or hedge accounting does not apply.  Gains and losses resulting from a change in fair value for these derivatives are reflected in income in the period in which the change occurs and are recognized on the Consolidated Statements of Operations in "Foreign currency transactions and other."  Cash flows related to these contracts are classified within "Net cash provided by operating activities" on the cash flow statement. 
    
  The Company also utilizes derivative instruments to hedge the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on the net assets of its foreign subsidiaries. These instruments are designated as net investment hedges.  Hedge ineffectiveness is assessed and measured based on changes in forward exchange rates.  The Company records gains and losses on these derivative instruments as currency translation adjustments, which offset a portion of the translation adjustments related to the foreign  
    75 

     Table of Contents  

   subsidiary s net assets.  Gains and losses are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" and will be realized upon a partial sale or liquidation of the investment.  The Company formally documents all derivatives designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes, both at hedge inception and on an on-going basis.  These net investment hedges expose the Company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity, which is not offset by the translation of the underlying hedged equity.  The cash flows from these contracts are classified within "Net cash used in investing activities" on the cash flow statement. 
    
  The Company does not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  The Company recognizes all derivative instruments on the balance sheet at fair value and its derivative instruments are generally short-term in duration.  The derivative instruments do not contain leverage features. 
    
  The Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts may fail to meet their contractual obligations.  The Company regularly reviews its credit exposure as well as assessing the creditworthiness of its counterparties.  See Note   5   for further detail on derivatives. 
    
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
    
   In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued guidance for new disclosure requirements regarding a company's rights of offset and related arrangements associated with financial instruments and derivative instruments.  The new disclosures are designed to make financial statements that were prepared under U.S. GAAP more comparable to those prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS").  The new disclosure requirements are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods therein.  Retrospective application is required.    
    
  In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting update, which amends the guidance on testing goodwill for impairment.  Under the revised guidance, entities testing goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit.  If, based on the qualitative factors, it is more-likely-than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then the unchanged two-step approach previously used would be required.  The new accounting guidance does not change how goodwill is calculated, how goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit, or the requirements for testing goodwill annually or when events and circumstances warrant testing.  The accounting update is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011.  Early adoption of the update is permitted.  During the three months ended September 30, 2011, the Company performed its annual quantitative goodwill impairment testing, and concluded that the estimated fair value for each reporting unit substantially exceeds its respective carrying value.  This new accounting guidance will not have a significant impact on the Company.    
    
  In June 2010, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance on the presentation of other comprehensive income in financial statements by requiring comprehensive income to be reported in either a single statement or in two consecutive statements reporting net income and other comprehensive income.  This accounting update also required reclassification adjustments out of other comprehensive income to be presented in both the income statement and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented, both in interim and annual periods.  In December 2011, the FASB issued another accounting  update which indefinitely defers the requirement to separately present reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements.  During the deferral period, a company that does not display reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements must disclose such adjustments in the notes to the financial statements.  The accounting guidance did not change the items that constitute net income or other comprehensive income, the timing of when other comprehensive income is reclassified to net income, or the earnings per share computation.  The accounting update requires retrospective application.  Public entities will be required to adopt the guidance for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted.  The Company will comply with the change in presentation of other comprehensive income in the financial statements beginning in the first quarter of 2012. 
    
  In May 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance on fair value to largely achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. GAAP and IFRS.  The new accounting guidance does not extend the use of fair value but rather provides guidance about how fair value should be determined.  For U.S. GAAP, most of the changes are clarifications of existing guidance or wording changes to align with IFRS.  Amendments that clarify the Board's intent under existing requirements include: (a) use of the highest and best use and valuation premise concept should be limited to nonfinancial assets; (b) disclosure should include quantitative information about the unobservable inputs used in a fair value measurement that is categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy; and (c) the fair value of an instrument classified in an entity's equity should be valued from the perspective of a market participant that holds that instrument as an asset.  The amended guidance changes requirements as follows: (a) disclosures are expanded, particularly those relating to fair value measurements based on unobservable inputs, (b) fair value measurements for financial assets and liabilities based on a net  
    76 

     Table of Contents  

   position are permitted if market or credit risks are managed on a net basis and other criteria are met, and (c) premiums and discounts are allowed only if a market participant would also include them in the fair value measurement.  This accounting update is effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted.  We expect to make the additional disclosures required in 2012. 
    
             3.    
    STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION AND OTHER STOCK-BASED PAYMENTS 
       
  The Company has adopted the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended and restated effective June 4, 2008, (the "1999 Plan") as the stock compensation plan from which broad-based employee grants may be made.  The 1999 Plan provides for stock-based compensation grants of up to   9,195,833   shares of priceline.com Incorporated common stock as incentives and rewards to encourage employees, officers, consultants and directors to contribute to the long-term success of the Company.  As of   December 31, 2011  , there are   792,227   shares available to be issued under the plan. 
    
  Stock-based compensation issued under the plans generally consists of restricted stock units, performance share units, restricted stock and non-qualified stock options.  Stock options are granted to employees at exercise prices equal to the fair value of the common stock at the date of grant and have a term of   10   years.  Generally, stock option grants to employees vest over   three   years from the grant date.  Restricted stock, performance share units and restricted stock units generally vest over periods from   1 to 4   years.  The Company issues new shares of common stock upon the issuance of restricted stock, the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock units and performance share units. 
    
  Stock-based compensation included in personnel expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations was approximately   $65.7 million  ,   $68.2 million   and   $40.7 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively.  Stock-based compensation for the years ended   December 31, 2011   and   2010   includes charges amounting to   $10.3 million   and $  13.4 million  , respectively,  representing the cumulative impact of adjusting the estimated probable outcome at the end of the performance period for certain outstanding unvested performance share units.  Included in the stock-based compensation are approximately   $1.7 million  ,   $1.3 million  , and   $1.1 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010  , and   2009  , respectively, for grants to non-employee directors.  The related tax benefit for stock-based compensation is   $8.1 million  ,   $7.5 million   and   $4.9 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively.   
    
  The following table summarizes stock option activity during the year ended   December 31, 2011  : 

No stock options were granted during the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   or 2009.  The intrinsic value of stock options exercised was approximately   $77.1 million  ,   $74.8 million   and   $61.9 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively.  As of December 31, 2008, all stock options were fully vested and exercisable. 
    
    77 

     Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the activity of unvested restricted stock units ("RSUs"), performance share units and restricted stock during the years ended   December 31, 2009  ,   2010   and   2011  : 

The Company granted   125,564  ,   179,101   and   306,746   restricted shares, performance share units and restricted stock units during the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively, with an aggregate grant-date fair value of approximately   $58.9 million  ,   $42.4 million   and   $25.8 million  , respectively.  During the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively,   858,019  ,   367,856   and   578,730   shares of share-based awards vested with total grant date fair values of   $97.3 million  ,   $21.1 million   and   $16.9 million  , respectively. 
    
  Additionally, in   March 2009  , the Company granted an aggregate of   47,186   restricted stock units to certain executives.  The restricted stock units will be forfeited if the Company s common stock does not achieve and maintain certain stock price thresholds during the   six   month period preceding the March 2012 vesting date.  If during such six month period the Company s common stock closes at or above the stock price of   $97.05  ,   $104.69  , or   $113.03   for twenty (  20  ) consecutive trading days,   50%  ,   75%   or   100%  , respectively, of the RSUs will be earned pursuant to the market price requirement.  Subject to certain exceptions related to a change in control and terminations other than for "cause," or on account of death or disability, the executives must also continue their service through March 3, 2012 in order to receive any shares of the Company s common stock.  The RSUs earned, if any, are payable in the Company s common stock upon vesting.  Stock-based compensation expense related to an award with a market condition is recognized over the requisite service period regardless of whether the market condition is satisfied, provided that the requisite service period has been completed. The value of the Company s stock on the date of grant was   $82.65   per share.  The Company considered the "path dependent" nature of the RSUs and determined the grant date fair value by replicating the payout structure of the RSUs using a series of call options and cash-or-nothing binary call options.  Cash-or-nothing binary call options provide the holder with the right to receive the strike price if the stock price exceeds the strike price as of the expiration date.  The fair value calculation included the following assumptions:  a   1.36%   annualized risk-free interest rate, a calculated   three   year historical volatility of   55.95%  , no dividends, and an expected term equal to the   three   year vesting period.  The award had a total grant date fair value of   $2.4 million   based on a grant date fair value of   $51.11   per share.  The fair value of a grant subject to a market condition is generally lower than an award with only a service condition for vesting since the market condition may never be met. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2011  , there is   $92.1 million   of total future compensation cost related to unvested share-based awards to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.9   years. 
    
    78 

     Table of Contents  

   Stock-based compensation for performance share units is recorded based on the estimated probable outcome if the Company, and with respect to certain grants, its subsidiaries, priceline.com International and Agoda, achieve certain financial goals at the end of the performance period.  The actual number of shares to be issued will be determined upon completion of the performance period, assuming there is no accelerated vesting for, among other things, a termination of employment under certain circumstances, or a change in control. 
    
  2011 Performance Share Units 
    
  During the year ended   December 31, 2011  , stock-based awards included grants of    77,144    performance share units with a grant date fair value of   $35.9 million  , based on a weighted average grant date fair value of   $464.79    per share.  The actual number of shares will be determined upon completion of the performance period which ends December 31, 2013.   
    
  At   December 31, 2011  , there were   76,552    unvested performance share units outstanding, net of actual forfeitures and vesting.  During the year ended   December 31, 2011  , the number of shares estimated as probable to be issued at the end of the performance period increased by   76,817   shares.   
    
  As of   December 31, 2011  , the number of shares estimated to be issued at the end of the performance period is a total of   153,369   shares.  If the maximum performance thresholds are met at the end of the performance period, a maximum of   163,324   total shares could be issued. 
    
  2010 Performance Share Units 
    
  During the year ended   December 31, 2010  , stock-based awards included grants of   110,430   performance share units with a grant date fair value of   $26.0 million  , based on a weighted average grant date fair value of   $235.34   per share.  The actual number of shares will be determined upon completion of the performance period which ends December 31, 2012. 
    
  At   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , there were   93,745   and   108,702   unvested performance share units outstanding, net of actual forfeitures and vesting, respectively.  During the year ended   December 31, 2010  , the number of shares estimated as probable to be issued at the end of the performance period increased by   154,177   shares. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2011  , the number of shares estimated to be issued at the end of the performance period is a total of   226,505   shares.  The maximum number of total shares that could be issued at the end of the performance period is   226,505   shares.  
    
  Other Stock-based Payments 
    
  In   2010  , the Company granted   5,555   RSUs with a total grant date fair value of   $1.6 million   to an advertising partner.  Expense is amortized over the service period and is charged to offline advertising expense. 
    
             4. 
    INVESTMENTS 
       
  The following table summarizes, by major security type, the Company s short-term investments as of   December 31, 2011   (in thousands): 

As of   December 31, 2011  , foreign government securities included investments in debt securities issued by the governments of Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and France. 
    
    79 

     Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes, by major security type, the Company s short-term investments as of   December 31, 2010   (in thousands): 

There were no material realized gains or losses related to investments for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  . 
    
             5. 
    FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
       
  Financial assets carried at fair value as of   December 31, 2011   are classified in the table below in the categories described below (in thousands): 

Financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value as of    December 31, 2010   are classified in the tables below in the categories described below (in thousands): 

80 

     Table of Contents  

There are three levels of inputs to measure fair value.  The definition of each input is described below: 
    
           Level   1  : 
    Quoted prices in active markets that are accessible by the Company at the measurement date for identical assets and liabilities. 
       
           Level   2  : 
    Inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly. Such prices may be based upon quoted prices for identical or comparable securities in active markets or inputs not quoted on active markets, but corroborated by market data. 
       
           Level   3  : 
    Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. 
       
  Fair values for U.S. Treasury securities and foreign government securities are considered "Level   2  " valuations because the Company has access to quoted prices, but does not have visibility to the volume and frequency of trading for all investments.  Fair values for U.S. agency securities and corporate notes are considered "Level   2  " valuations because they are obtained from pricing sources for these or comparable instruments.  For the Company s investments, a market approach is used for recurring fair value measurements and the valuation techniques use inputs that are observable, or can be corroborated by observable data, in an active marketplace. 
    
  The Company s derivative instruments are valued using pricing models.  Pricing models take into account the contract terms as well as multiple inputs where applicable, such as interest rate yield curves, option volatility and currency rates.  Derivatives are considered "Level   2  " fair value measurements.  The Company s derivative instruments are typically short-term in nature. 
    
  The Company considers its redeemable noncontrolling interests to represent a "Level   3  " fair value measurement that requires a high level of judgment to determine fair value.  The Company estimated such fair value based upon standard valuation techniques using discounted cash flow analysis and industry peer comparable analysis.  See Note   13   for information on the estimated fair value for redeemable noncontrolling interests. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , the carrying value of the Company s cash and cash equivalents approximated their fair value and consisted primarily of foreign and U.S. government securities and bank deposits.  Other financial assets and liabilities, including restricted cash, accounts receivable, accrued expenses and deferred merchant bookings are carried at cost which also approximates their fair value because of the short-term nature of these items.  See Note   4   for information on the carrying value of investments and Note   11   for the estimated fair value of the Company s Senior Convertible Notes. 
    
  In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations.  The Company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives.  See Note   2   for further information on our accounting policy for derivative financial instruments. 
    
  Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments     The Company is exposed to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of its international operations are translated from local currency into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation.  The Company's derivative contracts principally address short-term foreign exchange fluctuations for the Euro and British Pound Sterling.  As of   December 31, 2011  , there were no outstanding derivative contracts.  As of   December 31, 2010  , derivatives with a notional value of   30 million   Euros resulted in a liability of $  0.2 million   and were recorded in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities"in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Foreign exchange gains of $  4.0 million   and $  2.9 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011   and   2010   , respectively, were recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   
    
  Foreign exchange derivatives outstanding as of   December 31, 2011   associated with foreign currency transaction risks resulted in a net liability of $  0.8 million  , with $  1.1 million   recorded in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities and $  0.3 million   recorded in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Foreign exchange derivatives outstanding at   December 31, 2010   associated with foreign exchange transaction risks resulted in an asset of $  1.0  
    81 

     Table of Contents  

   million   and was recorded in "Prepaid and other current assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Foreign exchange losses of $  2.9 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2011   compared to foreign exchange gains of $  0.1 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2010   were recorded in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.   
    
  The settlement of derivative contracts for the year ended   December 31, 2011   resulted in a net cash outflow of $  0.6 million   compared to a net cash inflow of   $3.6 million   for the year ended    December 31, 2010   and are reported within "Net cash provided by operating activities" on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
    
  Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments     As of   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , the Company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts for   860 million   Euros and   378 million   Euros, respectively, to hedge a portion of its net investment in a foreign subsidiary.  These contracts are all short-term in nature.  Hedge ineffectiveness is assessed and measured based on changes in forward exchange rates.  The fair value of these derivatives at   December 31, 2011   was an asset of $  60.1 million   and is reflected in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  The fair value of these derivatives at   December 31, 2010   was a net liability of $  2.8 million    and was recorded as a liability of $  6.8 million   in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" and as an asset of $  4.0 million   in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  A net cash outflow of $  11.0 million   for the year ended   December 31, 2011  , compared to a net cash inflow of $  35.0 million   million for the year ended   December 31, 2010  , was reported within "Net cash used in investing activities" on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
    
             6.    
    ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE RESERVES 
       
  The Company records a provision for uncollectible agency commissions, principally receivables from hotels related to agency reservations.  The Company also accrues for costs associated with purchases made on its websites by individuals using fraudulent credit cards and for other amounts "charged back" as a result of payment disputes.  Changes in accounts receivable reserves consisted of the following (in thousands): 

The increase in the bad debt provision in   2011   as compared to   2010   was primarily due to higher accounts receivable as a result of increased sales.   
    
             7. 
    NET INCOME PER SHARE 
       
  The Company computes basic net income per share by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted net income per share is based upon the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. 
    
  Common equivalent shares related to stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, and performance share units are calculated using the treasury stock method.  Performance share units are included in the weighted average common equivalent shares based on the number of shares that would be issued if the end of the reporting period were the end of the performance period, if the result would be dilutive. 
    
  The Company s convertible debt issues have net share settlement features requiring the Company upon conversion to settle the principal amount of the debt for cash and the conversion premium for cash or shares of the Company s common stock.  The convertible notes are included in the calculation of diluted net income per share if their inclusion is dilutive under the treasury stock method. 
    
    82 

     Table of Contents  

   A reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares outstanding used in calculating diluted earnings per share is as follows (in thousands): 

Anti-dilutive potential common shares for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009   include approximately   1.2 million  ,   1.9 million   shares and   1.5 million   shares, respectively, that could be issued under the Company s convertible debt if the Company experiences substantial increases in its common stock price.  Under the treasury stock method, the convertible notes will generally have a dilutive impact on net income per share if the Company s average stock price for the period exceeds the conversion price for the convertible notes. 
    
  The Company has Conversion Spread Hedges outstanding at   December 31, 2011  , which were designed to reduce potential dilution of the Company's   0.75%   Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 at their stated maturity date (see Note   11  ).  Since the beneficial impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is anti-dilutive, it is excluded from the calculation of net income per share. 
    
             8. 
    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT 
       
  Property and equipment at   December 31, 2011   and   2010   consists of the following (in thousands): 

Fixed asset depreciation and amortization expense are approximately   $20.6 million  ,   $16.2 million   and   $14.5 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively. 

83 

     Table of Contents  

            9. 
    INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL 
       
  The Company s intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands): 

Intangible assets with determinable lives are amortized on a straight-line basis.  Intangible assets amortization expense is approximately   $33.2 million  ,   $34.3 million   and   $24.7 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively. 
    
  The annual estimated amortization expense for intangible assets for the next five years and thereafter is expected to be as follows (in thousands): 

A substantial portion of the intangible assets relate to our Booking.com business.  In addition, purchased intangibles increased by   $94.5 million   as a result of the acquisition of TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited (now known as rentalcars.com) in May 2010 (refer to Note   13  ). 
    
  A rollforward of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 consists of the following (in thousands): 

84 

     Table of Contents  

A substantial amount of the Company s goodwill relates to its acquisition of Booking.com.  In addition, the acquisition of TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited in May 2010 (now known as rentalcars.com) increased goodwill by   $105.3 million   (refer to Note   13  ) and contingent purchase price consideration recorded in December 2010 related to the acquisition of priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as Agoda) in 2007 increased goodwill by   $60.1 million   (refer to Note   16  ). 
    
  As of September 30, 2011, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment testing using standard valuation techniques.  The estimated fair value of Booking.com, as well as the Company s other reporting units, substantially exceeded their respective carrying values.  Since the annual impairment test, there have been no events or changes in circumstances to indicate a potential impairment. 

Other assets at   December 31, 2011   and   2010   consist of the following (in thousands): 

Deferred debt issuance costs arose from (i) a   $1.0 billion   revolving credit facility in October 2011; (ii) the Company s issuance, in March 2010, of the   $575.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   1.25%   Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes"); (iii) the Company s issuance, in September 2006, of   $172.5 million   aggregate principal amount of 2013 Notes; and (iv) a $  175.0 million   revolving credit facility in September 2007.  Deferred debt issuance costs are being amortized using the effective interest rate method over the term of approximately   five   years, except for the 2013 Notes, which were amortized over their term of   seven   years.  The period of amortization for the Company s debt issue costs was determined at inception of the related debt agreements to be the stated maturity date.  Unamortized debt issuance costs written off to interest expense in the year ended   December 31, 2010   related to early conversion of convertible debt amounted to   $1.4 million  .  Unamortized debt issuance costs written off in the year ended   December 31, 2011   for debt conversions were insignificant.   

Revolving Credit Facility 
    
  In October 2011, the Company entered into a $  1.0 billion     five  -year unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of lenders.  Borrowings under the revolving credit facility will bear interest, at the Company's option, at a rate per annum equal to either (i) the adjusted LIBOR for the interest period in effect for such borrowing plus an applicable margin ranging from   1.00%   to   1.50%  ; or (ii)   the greatest of (a) JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association's prime lending rate,   (b) the federal funds rate plus   0.50%  , and (c) an adjusted LIBOR for an interest period of one month plus   1.00%  , plus an applicable margin ranging from   0.00%   to   0.50%  .  Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility are subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from    0.10%   to   0.25%  . 
    
  The revolving credit facility provides for the issuance of up to $  100   million of letters of credit as well as borrowings of up to $  50   million on same-day notice, referred to as swingline loans.  Borrowings under the revolving credit facility may be made in U.S. dollars, Euros, Pounds Sterling and any other foreign currency agreed to by the lenders.  The proceeds of loans made under the facility will be used for working capital and general corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 2011, there were no borrowings under the facility, and approximately $  1.9 million   of letters of credit were issued under the facility.  
    
   Upon entering into this new revolving credit facility, the Company terminated its $  175.0 million     five  -year committed revolving credit facility entered into in September 2007.  This revolving credit facility provided for the issuance of up to   $50.0 million   of letters of credit as well as swingline loans.  As of   December 31, 2010  , there were no borrowings outstanding and approximately $  1.6 million   of letters of credit issued under this revolving credit facility.  Undrawn balances available under the revolving credit facility were subject to commitment fees at the applicable rate ranging from   0.25%   to   0.375%  . 
    
    85 

     Table of Contents  

   Convertible Debt 
    
  Convertible debt as of   December 31, 2011   consists of the following (in thousands): 

Convertible debt as of   December 31, 2010   consisted of the following (in thousands): 

Based upon the closing price of the Company s common stock for the prescribed measurement periods during the three months ended   December 31, 2011  , the contingent conversion threshold of the 2015 Notes was exceeded.  Therefore, the 2015 Notes are convertible at the option of the holders.  Accordingly, the Company reported the carrying value of the 2015 Notes as a current liability as of   December 31, 2011  .  Since these notes are convertible at the option of the holders and the principal amount is required to be paid in cash, the difference between the principal amount and the carrying value is reflected as convertible debt in the mezzanine section on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Therefore, with respect to the 2015 Notes, the Company reclassified  $  77.4   million before tax from additional paid-in-capital to convertible debt in the mezzanine section on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet.  The contingent conversion threshold on the 2015 Notes was not exceeded at   December 31, 2010  , and therefore on that date the debt was reported as a non-current liability.  The determination of whether or not the 2015 Notes are convertible must continue to be performed on a quarterly basis.  Consequently, the 2015 Notes may not be convertible in future quarters, and therefore may again be classified as long-term debt, if the contingent conversion threshold is not met in such quarters.   
    
  Based upon the closing price of the Company's common stock for the prescribed measurement period during the three months ended December 31, 2010, the contingent consideration threshold on the 2013 Notes was exceeded.  As a result, the 2013 Notes were convertible at the option of the holders as of December 31, 2010, and accordingly were classified as a current liability as of that date.  The remaining outstanding principal amount of the 2013 Notes was converted during the three months ended June 30, 2011.    
    
  If the note holders exercise their option to convert, the Company delivers cash to repay the principal amount of the notes and delivers shares of common stock or cash, at its option, to satisfy the conversion value in excess of the principal amount.  In cases where holders decide to convert prior to the maturity date, the Company writes off the proportionate amount of remaining debt issuance costs to interest expense.  In the year ended   December 31, 2011  ,  the Company delivered cash of $  0.2 million   to repay the principal amount and issued   4,869   shares of its common stock in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount for convertible debt that was converted prior to maturity.  The Company delivered cash of $  195.6 million   to repay the principal amount, and issued    3,457,828   shares of its common stock and delivered $  99.8 million   in cash in satisfaction of the conversion value in excess of the principal amount for convertible debt converted prior to maturity for the year ended   December 31, 2010  . 
    
  As of   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , the estimated market value of the outstanding senior notes was approximately   $0.9 billion   for both periods.  Fair value was estimated based upon actual trades at the end of the reporting period or the most recent trade available as well as the Company s stock price at the end of the reporting period.  A substantial portion of the market value of the Company s debt in excess of the outstanding principal amount relates to the conversion premium on the bonds. 
    
    86 

     Table of Contents  

   Description of Senior Notes 
    
  In March 2010, the Company issued in a private placement   $575.0 million   aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due March 15, 2015, with an interest rate of   1.25%   (the "2015 Notes").  The Company paid   $13.3 million   in debt financing costs associated with the 2015 Notes for the year ended   December 31, 2010  .  The 2015 Notes are convertible, subject to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion price of approximately   $303.06   per share.  The 2015 Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, prior to March 15, 2015 upon the occurrence of specified events, including, but not limited to a change in control, or if the closing sales price of the Company s common stock for at least   20   trading days in the period of the   30   consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is more than   150%   of the applicable conversion price in effect for the notes on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter. In the event that all or substantially all of the Company s common stock is acquired on or prior to the maturity of the 2015 Notes in a transaction in which the consideration paid to holders of the Company s common stock consists of all or substantially all cash, the Company would be required to make additional payments in the form of additional shares of common stock to the holders of the 2015 Notes in aggregate value ranging from   $0   to approximately   $132.7 million   depending upon the date of the transaction and the then current stock price of the Company.  As of December 15, 2014, holders will have the right to convert all or any portion of the 2015 Notes.  The 2015 Notes may not be redeemed by the Company prior to maturity.  The holders may require the Company to repurchase the 2015 Notes for cash in certain circumstances.  Interest on the 2015 Notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year. 
    
  In 2006, the Company issued in a private placement   $172.5 million   aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2013, with an interest rate of   0.75%   (the "2013 Notes").  The 2013 Notes were convertible, subject to certain conditions, into the Company s common stock at a conversion price of approximately   $40.38   per share.  The 2013 Notes were convertible, at the option of the holder, prior to June 30, 2013 upon the occurrence of specified events, including, but not limited to a change in control, or if the closing sale price of the Company s common stock for at least   20   consecutive trading days in the period of the   30   consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter was more than   120%   of the applicable conversion price in effect for the notes on the last trading day of the immediately preceding quarter.  The 2013 Notes could not be redeemed by the Company prior to maturity.  As mentioned above, the remaining outstanding principal amount at   December 31, 2010   was converted during the three months ended June 30, 2011.    
    
  In 2006, the Company entered into hedge transactions relating to potential dilution of the Company s common stock upon conversion of the 2013 Notes (the "Conversion Spread Hedges").  Under the Conversion Spread Hedges, the Company is entitled to purchase from Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch approximately   4.3 million   shares of the Company s common stock (the number of shares underlying the 2013 Notes) at a strike price of   $40.38   per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in 2013, and the counterparties are entitled to purchase from the Company approximately   4.3 million   shares of the Company s common stock at a strike price of   $50.47   per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) in 2013.  The Conversion Spread Hedges are separate transactions entered into by the Company with the counterparties and are not part of the terms of the 2013 Notes.  The Conversion Spread Hedges did not immediately hedge against the associated dilution from early conversions of the 2013 Notes prior to their stated maturities.  Therefore, upon early conversion of the 2013 Notes, the Company has delivered any related conversion premium in shares of stock or a combination of shares or cash that would offset the dilution associated with the early conversion activity.  Because of this timing difference, the number of shares, if any, that the Company receives from the Conversion Spread Hedges can differ materially from the number of shares that it was required to deliver to the holders of the 2013 Notes upon their early conversion.  The actual number of shares to be received will depend upon the Company's stock price on the date the Conversion Spread Hedges are exercisable, which coincides with the scheduled maturity of the 2013 Notes.   
    
  In 2006, the Company also issued in a private placement $  172.5 million   aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due September 30, 2011 (the "2011 Notes").  The remaining outstanding principal amount at   December 31, 2009    for these 2011 Notes was converted during 2010.  Also in 2006, the Company entered into hedge transactions relating to the potential dilution of the Company's common stock upon conversion of the 2011 Notes.  During the year ended   December 31, 2010  , the Company and the counterparties agreed to terminate the Conversion Spread Hedges associated with   4.3 million   shares underlying the 2011 Notes.  The Company recorded the $  43 million   cash received as an increase to paid-in-capital.   
    
  Accounting guidance requires that cash-settled convertible debt, such as the Company s convertible senior notes, be separated into debt and equity at issuance and each be assigned a value.  The value assigned to the debt component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar bond without the conversion feature.  The difference between the bond cash proceeds and this estimated fair value, representing the value assigned to the equity component, is recorded as a debt discount.  Debt discount is amortized using the effective interest method over the period from origination or modification date through the earlier of the first stated put date or the stated maturity date.  The Company estimated the straight debt borrowing  
    87 

     Table of Contents  

   rates at debt origination to be   5.89%   for the 2015 Notes  and   8.0%   for the 2013 Notes.  The yield to maturity was estimated at an at-market coupon priced at par. 
    
  Debt discount after tax of $  69.1   million ($  115.2   million before tax) partially offset by financing costs associated with the equity component of convertible debt of $  1.6   million after tax were recorded in additional paid-in capital related to the 2015 Notes at   December 31, 2010  .  The Company reclassified $  77.4   million before tax out of additional paid-in-capital to the mezzanine section in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet at   December 31, 2011   because the 2015 Notes were convertible at the option of the holders.      
    
  For the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , the Company recognized interest expense of   $30.6 million  ,   $27.6 million   and   $22.1 million  , respectively, related to convertible notes, comprised of   $7.2 million  ,   $5.8 million   and   $2.9 million  , respectively, for the contractual coupon interest,   $21.4 million  ,   $20.1 million   and   $18.2 million  , respectively, related to the amortization of debt discount and   $2.0 million  ,   $1.7 million   and   $1.0 million  , respectively, related to the amortization of debt issuance costs.  In addition, unamortized debt issuance costs written off to interest expense related to debt conversions in    2010   and   2009   was   $1.4 million  , and   $1.2 million  , respectively, while costs associated with 2011 debt conversions were insignificant.  The remaining period for amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs is the stated maturity dates for the respective debt.  The effective interest rates for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010  , and   2009   are   6.3%  ,   6.7%   and   8.5%  , respectively. 
    
  In addition, if the Company s convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity, a gain or loss on extinguishment will be recognized.  The gain or loss is the difference between the fair value of the debt component immediately prior to extinguishment and its carrying value.  To estimate the fair value at each conversion date, the Company used an applicable LIBOR rate plus an applicable credit default spread based upon the Company s credit rating at the respective conversion dates.  In the years ended December 31,   2010   and   2009  , the Company recognized a loss of   $11.3 million   (  $6.8 million   after tax) and a loss of   $1.0 million   (  $0.6 million   after tax), respectively, in "Foreign currency transactions and other" in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  The loss recognized for the year ended December 31, 2011 for debt conversions was insignificant.   

In the first quarter of 2010, the Company s Board of Directors authorized an additional repurchase of up to   $500 million   of the Company s common stock from time to time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including the approval to purchase up to   $100 million   from the proceeds from the issuance of the 2015 Notes.  During the year ended   December 31, 2010  , the Company repurchased   461,437   shares of its common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately   $106.1 million  . 
    
  The Board of Directors has also given the Company the general authorization to repurchase shares of its common stock to satisfy employee withholding tax obligations related to stock-based compensation.  In the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , the Company repurchased   358,517  ,   94,572  , and   180,071   shares at an aggregate cost of approximately   $163.2 million  ,   $23.4 million   and   $17.4 million  , respectively, to satisfy employee withholding taxes related to stock-based compensation. 
    
  The Company may make additional repurchases of shares under its stock repurchase program, depending on prevailing market conditions, alternate uses of capital and other factors.  Whether and when to initiate and/or complete any purchase of common stock and the amount of common stock purchased will be determined in the Company s complete discretion.  The Company has a remaining authorization of   $459.2 million   to repurchase common stock.  As of   December 31, 2011  , there were approximately   7.8 million   shares of the Company s common stock held in treasury. 
    
             13. 
    NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS 
       
  On May 18, 2010, the Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, priceline.com International Limited ("PIL"), paid   $108.5 million  , net of cash acquired, to purchase a controlling interest of the outstanding equity of TravelJigsaw Holdings Limited (now known as rentalcars.com), a Manchester, UK-based international rental car reservation service.  Transaction costs of   $1.9 million   were expensed during the three months ended June 30, 2010. 
    
  Certain key members of rentalcars.com s management team retained a noncontrolling ownership interest in rentalcars.com.  In addition, certain key members of the management team of Booking.com purchased a   3%   ownership interest in rentalcars.com from PIL in June 2010 (together with rentalcars.com management s investment, the "Redeemable Shares").  The holders of the Redeemable Shares will have the right to put their shares to PIL and PIL will have the right to call the  
    88 

     Table of Contents  

   shares in each case at a purchase price reflecting the fair value of the Redeemable Shares at the time of exercise.  Subject to certain exceptions,   one-third   of the Redeemable Shares will be subject to the put and call options in each of 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, during specified option exercise periods.  In April 2011, in connection with the exercise of March 2011 call and put options, PIL purchased a portion of the shares underlying redeemable noncontrolling interests for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $  13.0 million  .  As a result of the April 2011 purchase, the redeemable noncontrolling interests in rentalcars.com were reduced from   24.4%   to   19.0%  .   
    
  Redeemable noncontrolling interests are measured at fair value, both at the date of acquisition and subsequently at each reporting period.  The redeemable noncontrolling interests are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in mezzanine equity in "Redeemable noncontrolling interests." 
    
  A reconciliation of redeemable noncontrolling interests for the year ended   December 31, 2011   is as follows (in thousands): 

_____________________________ 
  (1)            The estimated fair value was based upon standard valuation techniques using discounted cash flow analysis and industry peer comparable analysis.  The fair value adjustments are recorded as a charge to retained earnings. 
    
  A reconciliation of redeemable noncontrolling interests for the year ended   December 31, 2010   is as follows (in thousands): 

_____________________________ 
           (1) 
    The fair value was determined based on the price paid at acquisition. 
              (2) 
    The Company retained a controlling interest after the sale of the subsidiary shares in June 2010. 
              (3) 
    The estimated fair value was based upon standard valuation techniques using discounted cash flow analysis and industry peer comparable analysis.  The fair value adjustments were recorded as charges to additional paid-in capital or retained earnings.    

89 

     Table of Contents  

            14. 
    ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
       
  The table below provides the balances for each classification of accumulated other comprehensive loss as of   December 31, 2011   and   2010   (in thousands): 

_____________________________ 
  (1)                Includes net gains from fair value adjustments at   December 31, 2011   and    2010   associated with net investment hedges of $  46.2 million   after tax ($  79.1 million   before tax) and $  15.8 million   after tax ($  27.1 million   before tax), respectively.  The remaining balance in currency translation adjustments excludes income taxes due to the Company s practice and intention to reinvest the earnings of its foreign subsidiaries in those operations. 
  (2)              The unrealized gains before tax at   December 31, 2011   and   2010   were $  1.0 million   and $  0.7 million  , respectively. 

Domestic pre-tax income was   $144.9 million  ,   $136.3 million   and   $113.9 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively.  Foreign pre-tax income was   $1,222.9 million  ,   $610.0 million   and   $328.4 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively. 
    
  The income tax expense (benefit) for the year ended   December 31, 2011   is as follows (in thousands): 

The income tax expense (benefit) for the year ended   December 31, 2010   is as follows (in thousands): 

The income tax expense (benefit) for the year ended   December 31, 2009   is as follows (in thousands): 

At   December 31, 2011  , the Company had approximately   $2.6 billion   of net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes ("NOLs"), comprised of   $0.4 billion   of NOLs generated from operating losses and approximately   $2.2 billion   of NOL tax benefits generated from equity-related transactions, including equity-based compensation and stock warrants.  The NOLs mainly expire from   December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2021  .  The utilization of these NOLs is subject to limitation under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC Section 382") and is also dependent upon the Company s  
    90 

     Table of Contents  

   ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. 
    
  IRC Section   382   imposes limitations on the availability of a company s net operating losses after a more than   50   percentage point ownership change occurs.  The IRC Section   382   limitation is based upon certain conclusions pertaining to the dates of ownership changes and the value of the Company on the dates of the ownership changes.  It was determined that ownership changes, as defined in IRC Section   382  , occurred in 2000 and 2002.  The amount of the Company s net operating losses incurred prior to each ownership change is limited based on the value of the Company on the respective dates of ownership change.  It is estimated that the remaining effect of IRC Section   382   will generally limit the total cumulative amount of net operating loss available to offset future taxable income to approximately   $1.2 billion  .  Pursuant to IRC Section   382  , subsequent ownership changes could further limit this amount. 
    
  The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of the realization of deferred tax assets, and reduces the carrying amount of these deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance to the extent it believes a portion will not be realized.  The Company considers many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of the deferred tax assets, including its recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future income, the carryforward periods available for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors.  In the three months ended September 30, 2009, management concluded that it was more likely than not that additional deferred tax assets would be realized.  This determination was based upon actual and projected future operating results in our domestic business, as well as recent stabilization in U.S. economic conditions, including hotel occupancy rates and average daily rates.  Accordingly, the Company recorded a non-cash income tax benefit of   $182.3 million   in the year ended   December 31, 2009  , resulting from the reversal of the remaining portion of its valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to NOLs generated from domestic operating losses.  In addition, during the year ended   December 31, 2009  , the Company recorded a non-cash income tax benefit of   $1.0 million   resulting from a reversal of a valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets related to foreign operating loss carryforwards based on the Company s assessment that it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. 
    
  The deferred tax asset at   December 31, 2011   and   2010   amounted to   $147.8 million   and   $222.0 million  , respectively, net of the valuation allowance recorded.  The short-term and long term portion at   December 31, 2011   was   $36.8 million   and $  111.1 million  , respectively, compared with   $70.6 million   and   $151.4 million  , respectively, at   December 31, 2010  . 
    
  The Company has recorded a non-current foreign deferred tax liability in the amount of   $47.0 million   and   $56.4 million   at   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , respectively, primarily related to the assignment of fair value to certain purchased identifiable intangible assets associated with various acquisitions.  
    
  The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2011   and   2010   are as follows (in thousands): 

(1)   Includes current deferred tax liabilities of   $2.7 million   and $  1.5 million   as of   December 31, 2011   and   2010  , respectively, which are reported in "Accrued expenses and other current liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
    91 

     Table of Contents  

The valuation allowance on deferred tax assets of   $172 million   at   December 31, 2011   includes   $145 million   related to federal and state net operating loss carryforwards derived from equity transactions and   $20 million   related to foreign operations.  Additionally, since January 1, 2006, the Company has generated additional federal tax benefits of   $132 million   related to equity transactions that are not included in the deferred tax asset table above.  Pursuant to accounting guidance, these  tax benefits related to equity deductions will be recognized by crediting paid in capital, if and when they are realized by reducing the Company s current income tax liability. 
    
  It is the practice and intention of the Company to reinvest the earnings of its non-U.S. subsidiaries in those operations.  Thus at   December 31, 2011  , no provision had been made for U.S. taxes on approximately   $1.9 billion   of foreign earnings.  Estimating the tax liability that would arise if these earnings were repatriated is not practicable at this time. 
    
  At   December 31, 2011  , the Company has approximately   $371 million   of state net operating loss carryforwards that expire mainly between   2020 and 2021  ,   $81 million   of foreign net operating loss carryforwards, of which   $5 million   expire between   2028 and 2030  , and   $3.1 million   of foreign capital allowance carryforwards that do not expire.  At   December 31, 2011  , the Company also had approximately   $1.3 million   of U.S. research credit carryforwards that expire from   December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020   and are also subject to annual limitation. 
    
  Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying "innovative" activities ("Innovation Box Tax").  Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of   5%   rather than the Dutch statutory rate of   25%   (  25.5%   as of   2010  ).  Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings ("qualifying earnings") is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment.  The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the "Initial Period"). In this ruling, the Dutch tax authorities require that the Innovation Box Tax benefit be phased in over a multi-year period.  The amount of qualifying earnings expressed as a percentage of the total pretax earnings in the Netherlands will vary depending upon the level of total pretax earnings that is achieved in any given year. 
    
  In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development ("R D") certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every   six   months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are "innovative."  Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period -- for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com s new or anticipated activities as "innovative" -- or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency s requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. 
    
  Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods.  There can be no assurance that Booking.com s application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time.  In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in 2012 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit.  
    
  The Innovation Box Tax did not have a material impact on the Company's 2010 results.  The impact of the Innovation Box Tax for   2011   reduced the Company's consolidated effective tax rate by approximately   four   percentage points.  The Company currently estimates that its consolidated effective tax rate for 2012 will be lower by approximately   four   to   six   percentage points compared to what it would be if the Company did not have the benefit of the Innovation Box Tax.   
    
  The effective income tax rate of the Company is different from the amount computed using the expected U.S. statutory federal rate of   35%   as a result of the following items (in thousands): 
    
    92 

     Table of Contents  

The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions based on a two step approach of recognition and measurement.  The first step involves assessing whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination based upon its technical merits.  The second step involves measurement of the amount to recognize.  Tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold are measured at the largest amount of tax benefit that is   greater than 50%   likely of being realized upon ultimate finalization with the taxing authority. 
    
  The following is a reconciliation of the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits (in thousands): 

The unrecognized tax benefits are included in "Other long-term liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the years ended   December 31, 2011   and   2010  .  Following the conclusion of an audit, the Company reversed approximately $  12.5 million   in the three months ended    June 30, 2011   for unrecognized tax benefits attributable to tax positions taken in 2010.  The Company does  not expect further significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months.   
    
  The Company s U.S. federal and Connecticut, Netherlands, and U.K. income tax returns, constituting the returns of the major taxing jurisdictions, are subject to examination by the taxing authorities as prescribed by applicable statute.  The statute of limitations remains open for the Company's U.S. federal and Connecticut returns from   2008   and forward; for the Netherlands from   2005   and forward; and for the U.K. from   2007   and forward.  No income tax waivers have been executed that would extend the period subject to examination beyond the period prescribed by statute.   
    
  As an international corporation providing hotel reservation services available around the world, the Company is subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions.  Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities.  Although the Company believes that its tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in the Company's historical income tax provisions and accruals.  To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant adjustments as a result.  The Internal Revenue Service initiated an audit of our   2009   and   2010   federal income tax returns in the third quarter of 2011. 
    
             16. 
    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
       
  Litigation Related to Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes 
    
  The Company and certain third-party defendant online travel companies are currently involved in approximately   fifty   lawsuits, including certified and putative class actions, brought by or against U.S. states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and the Company s "merchant" hotel business.  The Company s subsidiaries Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC are named in some but not all of these cases.  Generally, each complaint alleges, among other things, that the defendants violated each jurisdiction s respective hotel occupancy tax ordinance with respect to the charges and remittance of amounts to cover taxes under each law.  Each complaint  
    93 

     Table of Contents  

   typically seeks compensatory damages, disgorgement, penalties available by law, attorneys  fees and other relief.  The Company is also involved in   one   consumer lawsuit relating to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy taxes and service fees.  In addition, approximately   sixty   municipalities or counties, and at least   six   states, have initiated audit proceedings (including proceedings initiated by more than   forty   municipalities in California), issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax).  Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that the Company is subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, retroactively and/or prospectively. 
    
  With respect to the principal claims in these matters, the Company believes that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the service it provides, namely the facilitation of reservations, and, therefore, that it does not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed.  Rather, the Company believes that the ordinances at issue generally impose hotel occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations.  In addition, in many of these matters, municipalities have asserted claims for "conversion"   essentially, that the Company has collected a tax and wrongfully "pocketed" those tax dollars   a claim that the Company believes is without basis and has vigorously contested.  The municipalities that are currently involved in litigation and other proceedings with the Company, and that may be involved in future proceedings, have asserted contrary positions and will likely continue to do so.  From time to time, the Company has found it expedient to settle, and may in the future agree to settle, claims pending in these matters without conceding that the claims at issue are meritorious or that the claimed taxes are in fact due to be paid. 
    
  In connection with some of these tax audits and assessments, the Company may be required to pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in judicial proceedings.  This requirement is commonly referred to as "pay to play" or "pay first."  For example, the City of San Francisco assessed the Company approximately   $3.4 million   (an amount that includes interest and penalties) relating to hotel occupancy taxes, which the Company paid in July 2009.  Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an admission that the Company believes it is subject to such taxes and, even if such payments are made, the Company intends to continue to assert its position vigorously.  The Company has successfully argued against a "pay first" requirement asserted in another California proceeding. 
    
  Litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings.  For example, in October 2009, a jury in a San Antonio class action found that the Company and the other online travel companies that are defendants in the lawsuit "control" hotels for purposes of the local hotel occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject to the requirements of those ordinances.  On July 1, 2011, the court issued findings of fact and conclusions of law in connection with this case.  In addition to ruling that hotel tax was due from defendants on the markup and service fee, the court held defendants liable for penalties and interest per the terms of each city's applicable ordinance, but capped penalties at fifteen percent (15%) of the total amount of unpaid taxes at the time of entry of judgment; ordinances without a penalty provision are assessed a fifteen percent (15%) penalty under the Texas Tax Code.  The Company expects supplemental findings of fact and conclusions of law to be issued by the court, followed by a judgment.  The Company intends to vigorously pursue an appeal of the judgment on legal and factual grounds. 
    
  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation may encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries.  In addition, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include "pay first" payments, associated with defending the Company's position in pending and any future cases or proceedings.  An adverse outcome in one or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations and could be material to the Company's earnings or cash flow in any given operating period.  
    
  To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that the Company has a tax collection responsibility, or the Company determines that it has such a responsibility, with respect to future transactions, the Company may collect any such additional tax obligation from its customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to its customers and, consequently, could make the Company s hotel service less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, the Company could choose to reduce the compensation for its services on "merchant" hotel transactions.  Either step could have a material adverse effect on the Company s business and results of operations. 
    
  The  Company estimates that, since its inception through   December 31, 2011  , it has earned aggregate gross profit, including fees, from its entire U.S. "merchant" hotel business (which includes, among other things, the differential between the price paid by a customer for the Company s service and the cost of the underlying room) of approximately   $1.4 billion  .  This  
    94 

     Table of Contents  

   gross profit was earned in over a thousand taxing jurisdictions that the Company believes have aggregate tax rates (which may include hotel occupancy taxes, state and local taxes, among other taxes) associated with a typical transaction between a consumer and a hotel that generally range from approximately   6%   to approximately   18%  , depending on the jurisdiction. In many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on the Company s gross profit, but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs.  Therefore, any liability associated with hotel occupancy tax matters is not constrained to the Company s liability for tax owed on its historical gross profit, but may also include, among other things, penalties, interest and attorneys  fees. 
    
  To date, the majority of the taxing jurisdictions in which the Company facilitates hotel reservations have not asserted that taxes are due and payable on the Company s U.S. "merchant" hotel business.  With respect to municipalities that have not initiated proceedings to date, it is possible that they will do so in the future or that they will seek to amend their tax statutes and seek to collect taxes from the Company only on a prospective basis. 
    
  Reserve for Hotel Occupancy and Other Taxes 
    
  As a result of this litigation and other attempts by jurisdictions to levy similar taxes, the Company has established an accrual for the potential resolution of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes in the amount of approximately   $33 million   as of   December 31, 2011   compared to approximately   $26 million   as of   December 31, 2010   (which includes, among     other things, amounts related to the litigation in San Antonio).  The accrual is based on the Company s estimate of the ultimate cost of resolving these issues.  The actual cost may be less or greater, potentially significantly, than the liabilities recorded.  An estimate for a possible loss or range of loss in excess of the amount accrued cannot be reasonably made. 
    
  Developments in the Year Ended December 31, 2011 
    
  In the year ended   December 31, 2011   and to date,    six   of the approximately   fifty   currently pending lawsuits and   seven   of the total number of currently pending administrative proceedings noted above were commenced.    District of Columbia v. Priceline.com, Inc.   (Superior Court for the District of Columbia) was filed on March 22, 2011;   McAllister v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Circuit Court of Saline County, Arkansas), a putative class action, was filed on February 22, 2011;   County of Volusia, et al. v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of Volusia County, Florida) was filed on April 20, 2011;   Town of Breckenridge, Colorado v. Colorado Travel Company, LLC, et al.  , (Summit County District Court), a putative class action, was filed on July 25, 2011;    County of Nassau v. Expedia, Inc. et al.   (Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of Nassau) was filed on September 26, 2011. This case previously had been dismissed from federal court and was refiled as a state court action.    State of Mississippi ex rel. Attorney General Jim Hood v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (Chancery Court for Hinds County, Mississippi) was filed in December 2011.  In addition,   County of Kent, Michigan v. Hotels.com, L.P.,   et al. (Circuit Court for Kent County) was filed in November 2011; the Priceline defendants were voluntarily dismissed in December 2011.   
    
  In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011 and to date, appellate rulings and rulings granting dispositive motions brought by us (or another co-defendant), e.g. motions to dismiss or for summary judgment, were issued.  For example, on June 28, 2011, in   St. Louis County, et al. v. Prestige Travel, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of St. Louis County, Missouri; filed July 2009), the Supreme Court of Missouri affirmed the lower court's dismissal of all claims against the online travel companies.  On October 25, 2011, in   City of Houston v. Hotels.com, L.P.   (Harris County, Tex. Dist. Ct., filed on March 5, 2007) (Tex. App., appeal filed April 14, 2010), the Texas 14th Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's grant of summary judgment in favor of the defendants on all claims, holding that the statutes at issue in that case did not apply to defendants' hotel reservation facilitation services.  In January 2012, Plaintiffs filed a petition for review before the Texas Supreme Court.  In   State of Oklahoma v. Priceline.com, et al.   (District Court of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma, filed November 2010), defendants' motion to dismiss was granted on March 11, 2011 and plaintiffs did not appeal.  Defendants' motion for summary judgment was granted on March 24, 2011 in   City of Birmingham, Alabama, et al. v. Orbitz, Inc. et al.  , (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, filed December 2009); Plaintiffs have appealed that ruling to the Alabama Supreme Court.  On April 29, 2011, the Kentucky Court of Appeals affirmed the lower court's dismissal of all claims against the online travel companies in   City of Bowling Green, Kentucky v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (filed in Warren Circuit Court in March 2009; appeal filed April 2010; motion for discretionary review filed with Kentucky Supreme Court in May 2011).  In February 2012, the Kentucky Supreme Court denied the plaintiff's motion for discretionary review of the Court of Appeals' decision.      In   City of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.  , JCCP 4472 (Los Angeles Superior Court, filed February 9, 2006), on September 6, 2011, the court granted the online travel companies' petition to (i) vacate the hearing officer's prior ruling that the online travel company defendants are liable for transient occupancy tax pursuant to San Diego's ordinance, (ii) issue a new ruling that the online travel company defendants are not liable for such tax, and (iii) to set aside the City of San Diego's assessments.  With respect to its remaining claims, the City of San Diego has indicated it will stipulate to a consent judgment in favor of the online travel companies.  The City has indicated it plans to appeal.  In   City of Santa Monica v. Expedia, Inc. et al.,   JCCP 4472 (Los  
    95 

     Table of Contents  

   Angeles Superior Court, filed June 25, 2010), the court granted the online travel companies' motion to dismiss all claims without leave to amend; judgment was entered on July 26, 2011 in favor of the defendants. The case is currently on appeal.  In   Township of Lyndhurst, New Jersey v. priceline.com Inc., et al.   (filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey in June 2008) (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, appeal filed April 2009), the Third Circuit affirmed the District Court's dismissal of the case.  On August 24, 2011, the Third Circuit also denied the Township's motion for rehearing.  On January 28, 2012, in City of Branson, Missouri v. Hotels.com,LP., et al (Circuit Court of Greene County, Missoui, filed December 2006), the Court granted defendants' motion to dismiss all causes of action.  In   City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee; filed June 2008), the court granted the defendants' motion for summary judgment on February 21, 2012. 
    
  Rulings granting dispositive motions or granting relief sought by a plaintiff municipality (or state) also were issued.  For example, on August 3, 2011, in   County of Lawrence, Pennsylvania v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas of Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, filed November 2009) (Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania, appeal filed in November 2010), the Court for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania reversed the dismissal by the Court of Common Pleas of Lawrence of the County's declaratory relief claim, but affirmed the dismissal of the remaining counts.  In   The Village of Rosemont, Illinois v. priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, filed in July 2009), on October 14, 2011, the court granted plaintiff's motion for summary judgment.  In   City of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia, filed March 2006), following the decision by the Georgia Supreme Court affirming summary judgment in favor of defendants in May 2011, the Superior Court of Fulton County found that there are unresolved claims in the case for conversion, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees.  That decision is the subject of a motion for reconsideration filed by defendants on December 29, 2011. 
    
  Lastly, in the year ended December 31, 2011 the Company reached agreements with the respective plaintiffs resolving the claims for purported back taxes in the following cases:    Brevard County, Florida v. Priceline.com Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, filed October 2009);   County of Genesee, Michigan, et al. v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (Circuit Court for the County of Ingham, Michigan, filed in February 2009);   City of Jacksonville v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.,   2006-CA-005393 (Circuit Court for Duval County, filed August 4, 2006);   Anne Gannon v. Hotels.com, L.P.  , 50 2009 CA 025919 (Circuit Court for Palm Beach County, filed July 30, 2009);   City of Myrtle Beach, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas for Horry County, South Carolina, filed in February 2007);   Town of Hilton Head Island, South Carolina v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas for Beaufort County, South Carolina, filed in April 2010) and   Horry County, South Carolina, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (Court of Common Pleas, Horry County, South Carolina; filed in February 2007).  These cases have been dismissed.  In addition,   County of Monroe, Florida v. Priceline.com, Inc. et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida, filed January 2009)(agreement signed August 2010) and the Tourist Development Tax claims asserted by the County in   Priceline.com, Inc. v. Miami-Dade County, Florida, et al.  , were dismissed in 2011 pursuant to the August 2010 agreement reached in the   County of Monroe   case.  As part of each of these agreements, plaintiffs have agreed to not assert claims based on the ordinance at issue in the respective action for periods that range from   two   to   four   years.  The settlement amounts in these cases are not material to the Company's results of operations or cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
    
  The currently pending occupancy tax matters are listed below.  The Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings described below.   
    
  Statewide Class Actions and Putative Class Actions 
    
  Such actions include: 

City of Los Angeles, California v. Hotels.com, Inc., et al.   (California Superior Court, Los Angeles County; filed December 2004) 
                
    City of Rome, Georgia, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia; filed November 2005)  
                
    City of San Antonio, Texas v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas; filed May 2006) 
                
    City of Gallup, New Mexico v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the District of New Mexico; filed July 2007) 
                
    City of Goodlettsville, Tennessee, et al. v. priceline.com Incorporated, et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee; filed June 2008) 
                
    Pine Bluff Advertising and Promotion Commission, Jefferson County, Arkansas, et al. v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Arkansas; filed September 2009) 
                
    County of Lawrence, Pennsylvania v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Court of Common Pleas of Lawrence County,  
       96 

     Table of Contents  

   Pennsylvania; filed November 2009  
             
    McAllister, et al. v. Hotels.com LP, et al.   (Circuit Court of Saline County, Arkansas; filed February 2011) 
                
    Town of Breckenridge, Colorado v.   Colorado Travel Company, LLC, et al. (District Court of Summit County, Colorado; filed July 2011) 
                
    County of Nassau v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Supreme Court of Nassau County, New York; filed September 2011) 
       
  Actions Filed on Behalf of Individual Cities, Counties and States 
    
  Such actions include: 

City of Findlay, Ohio v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio; filed October 2005); (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit; appeal filed December 2010); and   City of Columbus, Ohio, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio; filed August 2006); (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio); (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit; appeal filed December 2010) 
                
    City of Chicago, Illinois v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (Circuit Court of Cook County Illinois; filed November 2005) 
                
    City of San Diego, California v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (California Superior Court, San Diego County; filed September 2006) (Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County) 
                
    City of Atlanta, Georgia v. Hotels.com L.P., et al.   (Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia; filed March 2006) 
                
    Wake County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Wake County, North Carolina; filed November 2006);   Dare County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Dare County, North Carolina; filed January 2007);   Buncombe County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com, LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Buncombe County, North Carolina; filed February 2007);   Mecklenburg County, North Carolina v. Hotels.com LP, et al.   (General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, Mecklenburg County, North Carolina; filed January 2008) 
                
    City of Houston, Texas v. Hotels.com, LP., et al.   (District Court of Harris County, Texas; filed March 2007); (Affirmed on appeal, Texas Fourteenth Court of Appeals October 2011); (Texas Supreme Court; petition for review filed January 2012)  
                
    City of Oakland, California v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California; filed June 2007); (U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit; appeal filed December 2007)  
                
    City of Bowling Green, Kentucky v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.,   (Warren Circuit Court; filed March 2009); (Commonwealth of Kentucky Court of Appeals; appeal filed April 2010); (Kentucky Supreme Court; motion for discretionary review filed May 2011) 
                
    The Village of Rosemont, Illinois v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois; filed July 2009) 
                
    Leon County, et al. v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Second Judicial Circuit Court for Leon County, Florida; filed November 2009);   Leon County v. Expedia, Inc. et al.   (Second Judicial Circuit Court for Leon County, Florida; filed December 2009) 
                
    City of Birmingham, Alabama, et al. v. Orbitz, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama; filed December 2009); (Alabama Supreme Court; appeal filed May 2011) 
                
    Baltimore County, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland; filed May 2010) 
                
    City of Santa Monica, California v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Superior Court of California, Los Angeles County, West District; filed June 2010); (California Court of Appeal, Second District; appeal filed September 2011)  
                
    Hamilton County, Ohio, et al. v. Hotels.com, L.P., et al.   (U.S. District Court for the Northern District Of Ohio; filed August 2010) 
                
    State of Florida Attorney General v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court - Second Judicial Circuit, Leon County, Florida; November 2010) 
                
    Montana Department of Revenue v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (First Judicial District Court of Lewis and Clark County, Montana; filed November 2010) 
                
    Montgomery County, Maryland v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (United States District Court for the District of Maryland; filed December 2010) 
                
    District of Columbia v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Superior Court for the District of Columbia; filed March 2011) 
                
    County of Volusia, et al. v. Expedia, Inc., et al.   (Circuit Court of Volusia County; filed April 2011) 
                
    State of Mississippi ex rel. Attorney General Jim Hood v. Priceline.com, Inc., et al.   (Chancery Court for  
       97 

     Table of Contents  

   Hinds County, Mississippi; filed December 2011) 
    
  The Company has also been informed by counsel to the plaintiffs in certain of the aforementioned actions that various, undisclosed municipalities or taxing jurisdictions may file additional cases against the Company, Lowestfare.com LLC and Travelweb LLC in the future.  
    
  Judicial Actions Relating to Assessments Issued by Individual Cities, Counties and States 
    
  After administrative remedies have been exhausted, the Company may seek judicial review of assessments issued by an individual city or county.  Currently pending actions seeking such a review include: 

Priceline.com, Inc., et al. v. Broward County, Florida   (Circuit Court - Second Judicial Circuit, Leon County, Florida; complaints filed January 2009, August 2009, and May 2011)   
                
    Priceline.com Inc., et al. v. City of Anaheim, California, et al.   (Superior Court of California, County of Orange; filed February 2009); (Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles); (California Court of Appeal, Second District; appeal filed January 2011)  
                
    Priceline.com, Inc. v. Indiana Department of State Revenue   (Indiana Tax Court; filed March 2009) 
                
    Priceline.com, Inc., et al. v. City of San Francisco, California, et al.   (Superior Court of California, County of San Francisco; filed June 2009); (Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles)  
                
    Priceline.com, Inc. v. Miami-Dade County, Florida, et al.   (Eleventh Judicial Circuit Court for Miami Dade, County, Florida; filed December 2009) 
                
    Priceline.com Incorporated, et al. v. Osceola County, Florida, et al.   (Circuit Court of the Second Judicial Circuit, in and for Leon County, Florida; filed January 2011) 
                
    In the Matter of the Appeal of Travelocity.com LLC, et al.   (Hawaii Tax Appeal Court; filed March 2011)  
       
  The Company intends to prosecute vigorously its claims in these actions. 
    
  Consumer Class Actions 
    
  On June 21, 2011 in   Chiste, et al. v. priceline.com Inc., et al.   (United States District Court for the Southern District of New York; filed in December 2008), the court granted the Company's motion to dismiss all claims against it except the breach of fiduciary claim.  On June 21, 2011, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois for resolution of the remaining claim, which was consolidated under   Peluso v. Orbitz.com, et al.  , 11 Civ. 4407 on July 14, 2011.  On July 13, 2011, the plaintiffs filed a Notice of Appeal of the June 21, 2011 decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  On July 25, 2011, the   Peluso   court granted plaintiff's motion to voluntarily dismiss the claim against the Company in the Northern District of Illinois.  On December 6, 2011, the Second Circuit dismissed the appeal for lack of jurisdiction. 
    
  The Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the on-going proceedings described above.   
    
  Administrative Proceedings and Other Possible Actions   
    
  At various times, the Company has also received inquiries or proposed tax assessments from municipalities and other taxing jurisdictions relating to its charges and remittance of amounts to cover state and local hotel occupancy and other related taxes.  Among others, the City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; the City of Phoenix, Arizona (on behalf of itself and   12   other Arizona cities); the City of St. Louis, Missouri; the City of Paradise Valley, Arizona; the City of Denver, Colorado; City of Greenwood Village, Colorado; City of Littleton, Colorado; City of Golden, Colorado; and the City of Portland, Oregon and County of Multnomah, Oregon; and state tax officials from Arkansas, Florida, Indiana, Louisiana, Maryland, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Wyoming have begun formal or informal administrative procedures or stated that they may assert claims against the Company relating to allegedly unpaid state or local hotel occupancy or related taxes.  Between 2008 and 2010, the Company received audit notices from more than   forty   cities in the state of California.  The Company has been engaged in audit proceedings in each of those cities.  The Company has also been contacted for audit by   five   counties in the state of Utah.   
    
  Litigation Related to Securities Matters 
    
  On March 16, March 26, April 27, and June 5, 2001, respectively,   four   putative class action complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York naming priceline.com, Inc., Richard S. Braddock, Jay Walker, Paul Francis, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter   Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., BancBoston Robertson  
    98 

     Table of Contents  

   Stephens, Inc. and Salomon Smith Barney, Inc. as defendants (01 Civ. 2261, 01 Civ. 2576, 01 Civ. 3590 and 01 Civ. 4956).    Shives et al. v. Bank of America Securities LLC et al.  , 01 Civ. 4956, also names other defendants and states claims unrelated to the Company.  The complaints allege, among other things, that the Company and the individual defendants violated the federal securities laws by issuing and selling priceline.com common stock in the Company's March 1999 initial public offering without disclosing to investors that some of the underwriters in the offering, including the lead underwriters, had allegedly solicited and received excessive and undisclosed commissions from certain investors.  After extensive negotiations, the parties reached a comprehensive settlement on or about March 30, 2009.  On April 2, 2009, plaintiffs filed a Notice of Motion for Preliminary Approval of Settlement.  On June 9, 2009, the court granted the motion and scheduled the hearing for final approval for September 10, 2009.  The settlement, previously approved by a special committee of the Company's Board of Directors, compromised the claims against the Company for approximately $  0.3   million.  The court issued an order granting final approval of the settlement on October 5, 2009.  Notices of appeal of the Court's order have been filed with the Second Circuit.  All of the appeals have now been resolved. 
    
  OFT Inquiry 
    
  In September 2010, the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading (the "OFT"), the competition authority in the U.K., announced it was conducting a formal early stage investigation into suspected breaches of competition law in the hotel online booking sector and had written to a number of parties in the industry to request information.  Specifically, the investigation focuses upon whether there are agreements or concerted practices between hotels and online travel companies and/or hotel room reservation "wholesalers" relating to the fixed or minimum resale prices of hotel room reservations.  In September 2010, Booking.com B.V. and priceline.com Incorporated, on behalf of Booking.com, received a Notice of Inquiry from the OFT; the Company and Booking.com are cooperating with the OFT's investigation.  The Company is unable at this time to predict the outcome of the OFT's investigation and the impact, if any, on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.  
    
  The Company intends to defend vigorously against the claims in all of the proceedings described in this Note   16.    The Company has accrued for certain legal contingencies where it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated.  Except as disclosed, such amounts accrued are not material to the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheets and provisions recorded have not been material to its consolidated results of operations.  The Company is unable to estimate the potential maximum range of loss. 
    
  From time to time, the Company has been, and expect to continue to be, subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of third party intellectual property rights.  Such claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, divert management's attention from the Company's business objectives and could adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  
    
  Employment Contracts 
    
  The Company has employment agreements with certain members of senior management that provide for cash severance payments of up to approximately   $26 million  , accelerated vesting of equity instruments, including without limitation, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance share units upon, among other things, death or termination without "cause" or "good reason," as those terms are defined in the agreements, and a gross-up for the payment of "golden parachute" excise taxes.  In addition, certain of the agreements provide for the extension of health and insurance benefits after termination for periods up to   three   years. 
    
  Operating Leases 
    
  The Company leases certain facilities and equipment through operating leases.  Rental expense for leased office space was approximately   $17.7 million  ,   $10.4 million   and   $7.8 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009  , respectively.  The Company s executive, administrative and U.S. operating offices and network operations center are located in approximately   70,000   square feet of leased office space located in Norwalk, Connecticut.  The Company also leases approximately   49,000   square feet of office space in Grand Rapids, Michigan.  Booking.com Limited leases approximately   48,000   square feet of office space in Cambridge, England.  Booking.com B.V. leases approximately   458,000   square feet of office space in Amsterdam, Netherlands and in   39   other countries in support of its international operations.  Agoda leases approximately   74,000   square feet of office space in Bangkok, Thailand and in   18   other countries in support of its international operations.  Rentalcars.com leases approximately   29,000   square feet of office space in Manchester, England.  Minimum payments for operating leases for office space, data centers and equipment having initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year have been translated into U.S. Dollars at the   December 31, 2011   spot exchange rates, as applicable, and are  
    99 

     Table of Contents  

   as follows (in thousands): 

Contingent Purchase Price 
    
  On November 6, 2007, the Company and a newly-formed, indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired   100%   of the total share capital of priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited (formerly known as the Agoda Company, Ltd.) ("Agoda") and AGIP LLC.  The purchase price for the acquisition, including acquisition costs, consisted of an initial purchase price paid by the Company in cash of approximately   $16 million  .  In addition, contingent consideration was payable by the Company if Agoda achieved specified "gross bookings" and earnings targets from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010.  Based upon actual results for the   three   year period ended December 31, 2010, the Company recorded a liability and increased goodwill by   $60.1 million   in   2010  , which did not impact the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for 2010.  This amount is reflected as an investing cash outflow in 2011. 
    
  On December 21, 2007, the Company acquired   100%   of the total issued share capital of an online advertising company for approximately   $4.1 million   in cash, including acquisition costs.  The Company could have been required to pay an additional amount of up to   $3.8 million   in cash each year from 2008 through 2010, if the acquired company achieved certain performance targets.  Based upon 2010, 2009 and 2008 results, the Company recorded a liability and increased goodwill by   $1.5 million  ,   $2.5 million   and   $1.5 million   in   December 2010  ,   December 2009  , and   December 2008  , respectively, to reflect this purchase price adjustment. 

Priceline.com has a defined contribution 401(k) savings plan (the "Plan") covering certain U.S. employees who are at least   21   years old.  The Plan allows eligible employees to contribute up to   75%   of their eligible earnings, subject to a statutorily prescribed annual limit.  All participants are fully vested in their contributions and investment earnings.  The Company makes a   50%   match of employee contributions up to   6%   of qualified compensation.  The Company also maintains certain other defined contribution plans outside of the United States for which it provides   50%   of the contributions for participating employees.  The Company s matching contributions during the years ended   December 31, 2011  ,   2010   and   2009   were approximately   $2.8 million  ,   $1.8 million   and   $1.5 million  , respectively. 
    
             18. 
    GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION 
       
  The geographic information is based upon the location of Company s subsidiaries (in thousands). 
    
    100 

     Table of Contents  

101 

     Table of Contents  

            19. 
    SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 

_____________________________ 

_____________________________ 
  (1)              As the Company's retail hotel business, which recognizes revenue at the completion of the stay, continues to expand, our quarterly results become increasingly impacted by seasonal factors. 
    
    102 

       Table of Contents  

   INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
  In reviewing the agreements included as exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, please remember they are included to provide you with information regarding their terms and are not intended to provide any other factual or disclosure information about the Company or the other parties to the agreements. The agreements contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and: 
               
    should not in all instances be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; 
                  
    have been qualified by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement, which   -   disclosures   -   are   -   not necessarily reflected in the agreement; 
                  
    may apply standards of materiality in a way that is different from what may be viewed as material to you or other investors; and 
                  
    were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement and are subject to more recent developments. 
     Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the actual state of affairs as of the date they were made or at any other time. Additional information about the Company may be found elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and the Company's other public filings, which are available without charge through the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov. 
                 Exhibit Number 
    Description 
      3.1(a) 
    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant. 
      3.2(b) 
    Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 13, 2003. 
      3.3(w) 
    Certificate of Amendment to Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated June 3, 2009. 
      3.4 
    Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Registrant. 
      4.1 
    Reference is hereby made to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3. 
      4.2(a) 
    Specimen Certificate for Registrant's Common Stock. 
      4.3(y) 
    Indenture, dated as of March 10, 2010, between the Registrant and American Stock Transfer   Trust Company, LLC as Trustee. 
      10.1(a)+ 
    1997 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant. 
      10.2(c)+ 
    1999 Omnibus Plan of the Registrant, as amended. 
      10.3(d)+ 
    Priceline.com 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan. 
      10.4(c)+ 
    Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement. 
      10.5(c)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for restricted stock grants to Board of Directors. 
      10.6(e)+ 
    Form of Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.S.). 
      10.7(e)+ 
    Form of Base Restricted Stock Agreement (U.K.). 
      10.8(e)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement with covenants (U.S.). 
      10.9(e)+ 
    Restricted Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Jeffery H. Boyd and the Registrant. 
      10.10(f)+ 
    Stock Option and Restricted Stock Agreement, dated November 20, 2000, by and between the Registrant and Robert Mylod Jr. 
      10.11(e)+ 
    Restricted Stock Agreement, dated February 1, 2005, between Robert J. Mylod Jr. and the Registrant. 
      10.12(g)+ 
    Employment Agreement, dated February 8, 2006, by and between the Registrant and Peter J. Millones. 
      10.13(g)+ 
    Form of priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan Restricted Stock Agreement for Non-Employee Directors. 
      10.14(h) 
    Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston International and the Registrant. 
      10.15(h) 
    Schedule to the Master Agreement, dated as of November 20, 2003 between Credit Suisse First Boston International and the Registrant. 
      10.16(h) 
    Letter Agreement, dated November 26, 2003, between Credit Suisse First Boston International and priceline.com Incorporated. 
      10.17(i)+ 
    Stock Option Grant Agreement with Ralph M. Bahna. 
      10.18(j)+ 
    Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between the Registrant and Daniel J. Finnegan. 

103 

       Table of Contents  

                  Exhibit Number 
    Description 
      10.19(j)+ 
    Restricted Stock Grant Agreement, dated October 19, 2005, reflecting grant of restricted stock to Daniel J. Finnegan. 
      10.20(k)+ 
    Form of Registrant's 1999 Omnibus Plan Award Agreement - Restricted Stock Units for Employees in the Netherlands. 
      10.21(l)+ 
    Form of Performance Share Agreement under the priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan. 
      10.22(m) 
    Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.23(m) 
    Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.24(m) 
    Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.25(m) 
    Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.26(n) 
    Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Goldman, Sachs   Co. and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.27(n) 
    Amendment dated October 11, 2006, to Confirmation of 5-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006 and Confirmation of 7-Year Issuer Capped Share Call Option Transaction between Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and priceline.com Incorporated, dated as of September 21, 2006. 
      10.28(o)+ 
    Priceline.com Incorporated Annual Bonus Plan, dated as of February 20, 2007. 
      10.29(p)+ 
    Performance share unit agreement dated December 1, 2007. 
      10.30(q)*+ 
    Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company's consolidated operations. 
      10.31(q)*+ 
    Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Company's domestic operations on an unconsolidated basis. 
      10.32(q)*+ 
    Form of 2007 Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of Agoda Company Ltd., Agoda Company Pte. Ltd. and Agoda Services Co. Ltd. 
      10.33(r)+ 
    priceline.com Incorporated 1999 Omnibus Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective June 4, 2008). 
      10.34(s)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to non-U.S. participants under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended. 
      10.35(t)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated August 22, 2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd. 
      10.36(t)+ 
    Performance share unit agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd. 
      10.37(u)+ 
    Letter amendment, dated December 18, 2008, to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Jeffery H. Boyd. 
      10.38(u)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Peter J. Millones. 
      10.39(u)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 18, 2008, by and between priceline.com Incorporated and Chris Soder. 
      10.40(u)+ 
    Letter amendment, dated December 16, 2008, to Letter agreement, dated October 19, 2005 by and between priceline.com and Daniel J. Finnegan. 
      10.41(u)+ 
    Amended and Restated Employment Contract, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Cornelis Petrus Henricus Maria Koolen. 
      10.42(v)+ 
    Form of 2009 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards to Messrs. Boyd and Mylod under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended. 
      10.43(x)+ 
    Indemnification Agreement, dated November 10, 2009, between priceline.com Incorporated and Kees Koolen. 
      10.44(y) 
    Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 4, 2010, between the Registrant and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated, as representatives of the initial purchasers named therein. 
      10.45(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Registrant's consolidated operations. 
      10.46(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Registrant's consolidated operations. 

104 

       Table of Contents  

                  Exhibit Number 
    Description 
      10.47(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of the Registrant's domestic operations on an unconsolidated basis. 
      10.48(z)+* 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, based on the performance of Booking.com B.V. 
      10.49(aa)+ 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, to certain U.S.-based executives. 
      10.50(aa)+ 
    Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, to Netherlands-based executive. 
      10.51(aa)+ 
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for awards under the 1999 Omnibus Plan, as amended, to non-employee directors 
      10.52(bb)+ 
    Employment Contract, dated September 12, 2011, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Darren Huston 
      10.53(bb)+ 
    Indemnification Agreement, dated September 12, 2011, by and between the Registrant and Darren Huston. 
      10.54(bb) 
    Credit Agreement, dated as of October 28, 2011, among the Registrant, the lenders from time to time party thereto, RBS Citizens, N.A., as Documentation Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Co Syndication Agents and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. 
      10.55(bb)+ 
    Second Amended and Restated Employment Contract, dated November 4, 2011, by and between Booking.com B.V. and Kees Koolen. 
      21 
    List of Subsidiaries. 
      23.1 
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP. 
      24.1 
    Power of Attorney (included in the Signature Page). 
      31.1 
    Certificate of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      31.2 
    Certificate of Daniel J. Finnegan, pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
      32.1(cc) 
    Certification of Jeffery H. Boyd, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code). 
      32.2(cc) 
    Certification of Daniel J. Finnegan, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code). 
      101 
    The following financial statements from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL: (i) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

____________________________ 

105 

       Table of Contents  

* 
    Certain portions of this document have been omitted pursuant to a confidential treatment request filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 24b 2. The omitted confidential material has been filed separately with the Commission. 
              + 
    Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

106 

<EX-3.4>
 2
 exhibit34-amendedandrestat.htm
 EX-3.4

Exhibit 3.4 - Amended and Restated Bylaws 

Exhibit 3.4 
  BY-LAWS 
  OF 
  PRICELINE.COM INCORPORATED 
  (hereinafter called the  Corporation ) 
    
  ARTICLE I     
  OFFICES 
    
  Section 1  .    Registered Office  .  The registered office of the Corporation is shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. 
  Section 2  .    Other Offices  .  The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.  

ARTICLE II 
    
  MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS 
    
  Section 1  .          Place of Meetings  .  Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. 
  Section 2  .          Annual Meetings  .  The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.  Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting of stockholders. 
  Section 3  .        Special Meetings  .  Unless otherwise required by law, special meetings of stockholders may be called as set forth in the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended or amended and restated from time to time (the  Certificate of Incorporation ) and these By-Laws.  Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting  

pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Section 4 of Article II of these By-Laws and, in addition, with respect to a special meeting of stockholders requested by the stockholders, in accordance with Section 5 of Article II of these Bylaws;   provided  ,   however  , that nothing in these By-Laws shall prohibit the Board of Directors from submitting matters to the stockholders at any special meeting requested by the stockholders.    
    Section 4  .        Notice of Meetings  .  Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.  Unless otherwise required by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to notice of and vote at such meeting.       
  Section 5  .        Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations  . 
    (A)        Annual Meetings of Stockholders  .   
    (1)        Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) subject to the Certificate of Incorporation, by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation (and, with respect to any beneficial owner, if different, on whose behalf such business is proposed or such nomination or nominations are made, only if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the Corporation) both at the time the notice provided for in Paragraphs (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this Section 5 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, (ii) who is entitled to vote at the meeting upon such election of directors or upon such business, as the case may be, and (iii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in Paragraphs (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this Section 5.  Except for proposals properly made in accordance with Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as  

amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (as so amended and inclusive of such rules and regulations, the  Exchange Act ), and included in the notice of meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, the foregoing clause (c) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations of directors or propose business to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders.  In addition, for business (other than the nomination of persons for election to the Board of Directors) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, and applicable law. 
    (2)        Without qualification, for nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of Paragraph (A)(1) of this Section 5, the stockholder (a) must have given timely notice thereof in writing and in proper form to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, and (b) must provide any updates or supplements to such notice at such times and in the forms required by this Section 5.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice relating to an annual meeting shall be delivered to, or mailed to and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day and not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day before the date of the one-year anniversary of the immediately preceding year's annual meeting;   provided  ,   however  , that if the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than thirty (30) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered, or mailed and received, not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day before such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day before such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement (as defined below) of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting of stockholders commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. 

(3)         To be in proper form for purposes of this Section 5, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary (whether pursuant to this Paragraph (A) or Paragraph (B) of this Section 5) must set forth:  
    (a) as to each Proposing Person (as defined below), (i) the name and address of such Proposing Person (including, if applicable, the name and address that appear on the Corporation's books and records); (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation that are, directly or indirectly, owned of record or beneficially owned (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) by such Proposing Person (  provided   that such Proposing Person shall in all events be deemed to beneficially own any shares of any class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation as to which such Proposing Person has a right to acquire beneficial ownership at any time in the future); 
    (b) as to each Proposing Person, (i) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, derivative, swap, or other transaction or series of transactions engaged in, directly or indirectly, by such Proposing Person, the purpose or effect of which is to give such Proposing Person economic risk similar to ownership of shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, including due to the fact that the value of such option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, derivative, swap, or other transactions are determined by reference to the price, value, or volatility of any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or which option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, derivative, swap, or other transactions provide, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any increase in the price or value of shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ( Synthetic Equity Interests ), which Synthetic Equity Interests shall be disclosed without regard to whether (x) the option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, derivative, swap, or other transactions convey any voting rights in such shares to such Proposing Person, (y) the option, warrant, convertible security,  

stock appreciation right, derivative, swap, or other transactions are required to be, or are capable of being, settled through delivery of such shares, or (z) such Proposing Person may have entered into other transactions that hedge or mitigate the economic effect of such option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, derivative, swap, or other transactions; (ii) any proxy (other than a revocable proxy or consent given in response to a solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act by way of a solicitation statement filed on Schedule 14A), agreement, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such Proposing Person has or shares a right to vote any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation (including the number of shares and class or series of capital stock of the Corporation that are subject to such proxy, agreement, arrangement, understanding, or relationship); (iii) any agreement, arrangement, understanding, or relationship, including any repurchase or similar so-called  stock borrowing  agreement or arrangement, engaged in, directly or indirectly, by such Proposing Person, the purpose or effect of which is to mitigate loss to, reduce the economic risk (of ownership or otherwise) of shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation by, manage the risk of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such Proposing Person with respect to the shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or that provides, directly or indirectly, the opportunity to profit from any decrease in the price or value of the shares of any class or series of the Corporation ( Short Interests  (iv) any rights to dividends on the shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation owned beneficially by such Proposing Person that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation; (v) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation, Synthetic Equity Interests or Short Interests held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner, (vi) any performance related fees  

(other than an asset based fee) to which such Proposing Person is entitled based on any increase or decrease in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the capital stock of the Corporation, or any Synthetic Equity Interests or Short Interests, if any; and (vii) any other information relating to such Proposing Person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies or consents by such Proposing Person in support of the nominations or business proposed to be brought before the meeting pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (the disclosures to be made pursuant to the foregoing clauses (i) through (vii) are referred to as  Disclosable Interests    provided  ,   however  , that Disclosable Interests shall not include any such disclosures with respect to the ordinary course business activities of any broker, dealer, commercial bank, trust company, or other nominee who is a Proposing Person solely as a result of being the stockholder directed to prepare and submit the notice required by these By-Laws on behalf of a beneficial owner;   
    (c) if such notice pertains to the nomination by the stockholder of a person or persons for election to the Board of Directors (each, a  nominee ), as to each nominee, (i) the name, age, business and residence address, and principal occupation or employment of the nominee; (ii) all other information relating to the nominee that would be required to be disclosed about such nominee if proxies were being solicited for the election of the nominee as a director in an election contest (whether or not such proxies are or will be solicited), or that is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act; (iii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships between or among such Proposing Persons, if any, including without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and  

any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the  registrant  for purposes of such Item and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant; (iv) such nominee's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; and (v) all information with respect to such nominee that would be required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice pursuant to this Section 5 if such nominee were a Proposing Person; 
    (d) if the notice relates to any business (other than the nomination of persons for election to the Board of Directors) that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (i) a reasonably brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, (ii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and if such business includes a proposal to amend the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), (iii) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, (iv) any material interest in such business of each Proposing Person, and (v) a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between or among each Proposing Person and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business; 
    (e) a representation that the stockholder giving the notice is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination;  
    (f) a representation whether any Proposing Person intends or is part of a group that intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination; and 

(g) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 4 of Article II of these By-Laws. 
  The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine (i) the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation, and (ii) whether such nominee qualifies as an  independent director  or  audit committee financial expert  under applicable law, securities exchange rule or regulation, or any publicly disclosed corporate governance guideline or committee charter of the Corporation. 
    (4)        Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 5 to the contrary, if the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the Board of Directors' nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors at least one hundred (100) days before the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 5 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to, or mailed to and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation. 
    (5)        Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in Paragraph (A) of this Section 5 (including those persons nominated by or at the direction of the Board of Directors) shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors.  Only such business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in Paragraph (A) of this Section 5.  Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the chairman of an annual meeting of stockholders shall have the power and duty (a) if the facts warrant, to determine that a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the annual meeting was not made or was not proposed, as the case may be, in accordance  

with the procedures set forth in Paragraph (A) of this Section 5, and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or was not proposed in compliance with Paragraph (A) of this Section 5, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.   
    (B)        Special Meetings of Stockholders  . 
    (1)        Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors at special meetings at which directors are to be elected and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at a special meeting of stockholders pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting only (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) subject to the Certificate of Incorporation, by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation (and, with respect to any beneficial owner, if different, on whose behalf such nomination or nominations (if a purpose for such meeting as stated in the Corporation's notice for such meeting is the election of one or more directors) are made or such business is proposed, only if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of shares of the Corporation) both at the time the notice provided for in Paragraph (B)(2) of this Section 5 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the special meeting, (ii) who is entitled to vote at the meeting upon such election of directors or upon such business, as the case may be, and (iii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in Paragraph (B)(2) of this Section 5;   provided  ,   however  , that a stockholder may nominate persons for election at a special meeting only to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of the meeting. The foregoing clause (b) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations of directors or propose business to be brought before a special meeting of stockholders. In addition, for business (other than the nomination of persons for election to the Board of Directors) to be properly brought before a special meeting by a stockholder, such business must be a proper matter for stockholder action pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws and applicable law.  
    (2)        If a special meeting has been called in accordance with this Section 5 for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors or to propose other business at the meeting,  

then for nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors to be made at, or other business to be properly brought before, such special meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (b) of Paragraph (B)(1) of this Section 5, the stockholder (a) must have given timely notice thereof in writing and in the proper form to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation, and (b) must provide any updates or supplements to such notice at such times and in the forms required by this Section 5.  To be timely, a stockholder's notice relating to a special meeting shall be delivered to, or mailed to and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day before such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day before such special meeting or the tenth (10   th   ) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.  In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.  To be in proper form for purposes of this Paragraph (B) of this Section 5, such notice shall set forth the information required by clauses (a), (b), (e) and (f), and clauses (c) and (g) in the case of director nominations or clause (d) in the case of other business, as applicable, of Paragraph (A)(3) of this Section 5. 
    (3)        Subject to the proviso in Section 3, only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in Paragraph (B) of this Section 5 (including those persons nominated by or at the direction of the Board of Directors) shall be eligible to be elected at a special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors.  Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders requested by a stockholder as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in Paragraph (B) of this Section 5.  Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the chairman of a special meeting of stockholders shall have the power and duty (a) if the facts warrant, to determine that a nomination proposed to be made at, or any business proposed to be brought before, the special meeting was not made or was not proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the  

procedures set forth in Paragraph (B) of this Section 5, and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or was not proposed in compliance with Paragraph (B) of this Section 5, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted.   
    (C)        General  .   
    (1)        A stockholder providing notice of nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders or notice of business proposed to be brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders shall further update and supplement such notice so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to Paragraph (A)(3)(a) through Paragraph (A)(3)(g) of this Section 5 shall be true and correct both as of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting and as of the date that is ten (10) business days before the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, and such updated and supplemental information shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (a) in the case of information that is required to be updated and supplemented to be true and correct as of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting, not later than the later of five (5) business days after such record date or five (5) business days after the public announcement of such record date, and (b) in the case of information that is required to be updated and supplemented to be true and correct as of ten (10) business days before the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, not later than eight (8) business days before the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof (or if not practicable to provide such updated and supplemental information not later than eight (8) business days before any adjournment or postponement, on the first practicable date before any such adjournment or postponement).  
    (2)        Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding  

that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation.  For purposes of this Section 5, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders. 
    (3)        For purposes of this Section 5, (a)  public announcement  shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press, or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14, or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; (b)  Proposing Person  shall mean (i) the stockholder giving the notice required by Paragraph (A) or Paragraph (B) of this Section 5, (ii) the beneficial owner or beneficial owners, if different, on whose behalf such notice is given, and (iii) any affiliates or associates (each within the meaning of Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act for purposes of these By-Laws) of such stockholder or beneficial owner. 
    (4)        Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of these By-Laws, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in Article II of these By-Laws.  Paragraph (A) of this Section 5 is expressly intended to apply to any business proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders other than any proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.  Nothing in this Section 5 shall be deemed to (a) affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 (or any successor thereto) promulgated under the Exchange Act, (b) confer upon any stockholder a right to have a nominee or any proposed business included in the Corporation's proxy statement, or (c) affect any rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock to nominate and elect directors pursuant to and to the extent provided in any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation. 

Section 6  .        Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and         Agreement  .  To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Section 5 of Article II of these By-Laws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a  Voting Commitment ) that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (C) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation. 
    Section 7  .          Adjournments  .  Any meeting of the stockholders may be adjourned from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. 

Section 8  .          Quorum  .  Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business.  A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum.  If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in the manner provided in Section 7, until a quorum shall be present or represented. 
    Section 9  .          Voting  .  Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders, other than the election of directors, shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the total number of votes of the capital stock represented and entitled to vote thereat, voting as a single class.  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to Section 5 of Article V hereof, each stockholder represented at a  meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder.  Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period.  The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot. 
    Section 10  .          List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote  .   The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice  

of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present. 
    Section 11  .          Stock Ledger  .  The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 10 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders. 
    Section 12  .          Conduct of Meetings  .   The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. 

ARTICLE III 
  DIRECTORS 
    
    Section 1  .        Number and Election of Directors  .        The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than one nor more than 13 members, the exact number of which shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.  Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or in Section 2 of this Article III of these By-Laws, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast at any annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at any annual meeting of stockholders for which the Secretary of the Corporation determines that the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected as of the record date for such annual meeting of stockholders.  Each director elected at an annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor is duly elected and qualified, or until such director's earlier death, resignation or removal.  Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation.  Directors need not be stockholders.  
    Section 2  .        Vacancies  .          Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies arising through death, resignation (including in connection with the stockholders failing at any annual meeting of stockholders to elect the number of directors then constituting the whole Board of Directors), removal, an increase in the number of directors or otherwise may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. 
    Section 3  .    Duties and Powers  .  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.  

Section 4  .     Meetings  .  The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors.   Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the Vice Chairman, if there be one, the Chief Executive Officer or by any director. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone or telegram on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. 
    Section 5  .    Quorum  .  Except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present.  
    Section 6  .    Actions by Written Consent  .  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.  
               Section 7  .    Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone  .  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting  

can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.  
    Section 8  .    Committees  .  The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required. 
    Section 9  .    Compensation  .  The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director, payable in cash or securities. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.  
    Section 10  .    Interested Directors  .  No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or  

officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because the director or officer's vote is counted for such purpose if (i) the material facts as to the director or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to the director or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.  
    Section 11  .    Ex Officio Members of the Board of Directors  .  The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may appoint one or more persons as ex officio members of the Board of Directors, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Ex officio members of the Board of Directors shall be permitted to attend meetings of the Board of Directors but shall not be entitled to vote on any matter before the Board of Directors and shall not be considered to be directors of the Corporation for any other purpose, including without limitation, for establishing a quorum, acting by written consent or providing notice of meetings. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Directors may hold meetings that do not include ex officio members of the Board of Directors. 

ARTICLE IV 
  OFFICERS 
    
    Section 1  .    General  .   The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, also may choose a Chairman of the Board of Directors (who must be a director), a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors (who must be a director), a President and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman, need such officers be directors of the Corporation. 
                      Section 2  .    Election  .   The Board of Directors, at its first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders (or action by written consent of stockholders in lieu of the annual meeting of stockholders), shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier death, resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors. The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. 
                      Section 3  .    Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation  .  Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President or any other officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem  

advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.  
                    Section 4  .    Chairman of the Board of Directors  . The Chairman, if there be one, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, unless the Board of Directors designates another person to serve as the Chief Executive Officer, and except where by law the signature of the Chief Executive Officer is required, the Chairman shall possess the same power as the Chief Executive Officer to sign all contracts, certificates and other instruments of the Corporation which may be authorized by the Board of Directors. The Chairman shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors. 
                      Section 5  .    Vice Chairman  .  In the absence of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman, if there be one, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. Except where by law the signature of the Chief Executive Officer is required, the Vice Chairman shall possess the same power as the Chief Executive Officer to sign all contracts, certificates and other instruments of the Corporation which may be authorized by the Board of Directors. During the absence or disability of the Chairman, the Vice Chairman shall exercise all powers and discharge all the duties of the Chairman. The Vice Chairman shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors. 
                       Section 6  .    Chief Executive Officer  .  The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors and the Chairman (if the Chairman is not the Chief Executive Officer), have general supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall execute all bonds, mortgages,  

contracts and other instruments of the Corporation requiring a seal, under the seal of the Corporation, except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except that the other officers of the Corporation may sign and execute documents when so authorized by these By-Laws, the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. If any bond, mortgage, contract and other instrument of the Corporation is required by law or otherwise to be signed by the president of a corporation and the Corporation does not have a President, the Chief Executive Officer shall be deemed to be the President of the Corporation and shall have the authority to execute such document. In the absence or disability of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman, or if there be none, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned to such officer by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors. 
                      Section 7  .    President  .  At the request of the Chief Executive Officer or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or in the event of the Chief Executive Officer's inability or refusal to act (and if there be no Chairman or Vice Chairman), the President shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. The President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. 
                      Section 8  .    Vice Presidents  .  At the request of the Chief Executive Officer or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or in the event of the Chief Executive Officer's inability or refusal to act (and if there be no Chairman, Vice Chairman or President), the Vice President, or the Vice Presidents if there is more than one (in the order designated by the Board of Directors), shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer. Each Vice President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. If there be no Chairman, Vice Chairman, President and no Vice President, the Board of Directors shall designate the officer of the Corporation who, in the absence  

of the Chief Executive Officer or in the event of the inability or refusal of the Chief Executive Officer to act, shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chief Executive Officer.  
                      Section 9  .    Secretary  .  The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for committees of the Board of Directors when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the Vice Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest to the affixing by such officer's signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.  
                      Section 10  .    Treasurer  .   The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, at its regular  

meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of the Treasurer and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of the Treasurer's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in the Treasurer's possession or under the Treasurer's control belonging to the Corporation. 
                      Section 11  .    Assistant Secretaries  .  Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, President, if there be one, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of the Secretary's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary. 
                      Section 12  .    Assistant Treasurers  .  Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, President, if there be one, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of the Treasurer's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office of Assistant Treasurer and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of the Assistant Treasurer's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in the Assistant Treasurer's possession or under the Assistant Treasurer's control belonging to the Corporation. 

Section 13  .    Other Officers  .  Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.  
                           
  ARTICLE V 
      CAPITAL STOCK 
    
                     Section 1  .    Form of Certificates  .  Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed, in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman, Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, President or a Vice President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such stockholder in the Corporation.  
                      Section 2  .    Signatures  .  Any or all of the signatures on a certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. 
                      Section 3  .    Lost Certificates  . The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or the owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity  

against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed or the issuance of such new certificate.  
                      Section 4  .    Transfers  .  Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by such person's attorney lawfully constituted in writing and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, which shall be cancelled before a new certificate shall be issued. No transfer of stock shall be valid as against the Corporation for any purpose until it shall have been entered in the stock records of the Corporation by an entry showing from and to whom transferred. 
    
                      Section 5  .     Record Date  . 
                    (a) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; providing, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.  
                    (b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than ten days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, shall be the first date  

on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in this State, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to a corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolutions taking such prior action.  
                    (c) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. 
                      Section 6  .    Record Owners  .  The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise required by law. 

ARTICLE VI 
  NOTICES 
    
    Section 1  .   Notices  . Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at such person's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, telex or cable. 
                      Section 2  .    Waivers of Notice  .  Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed, by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. 
    
  ARTICLE VII 
  GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    
    Section 1  .    Dividends  .  Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the requirements of the DGCL and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors (or any action by written consent in lieu thereof in accordance with Section 6 of Article III hereof), and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from  

time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve. 
                      Section 2  .    Disbursements  .  All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. 
                      Section 3  .    Fiscal Year  .  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. 
                      Section 4  .    Corporate Seal  .  The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.  
    
  ARTICLE VIII  
  FORUM FOR ADJUDICATION OF DISPUTES 
    
  Unless the Corporation consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Corporation, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Corporation to the Corporation or the Corporation's stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of this Article VIII. 

ARTICLE IX 
    
  AMENDMENTS 
    
  Section 1  .    Amendments  .      These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new By-Laws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors, provided, however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-Laws be contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or Board of Directors, as the case may be. All such amendments must be approved by either the holders of a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote thereon or by a majority of the entire Board of Directors then in office  . 
    
  Section 2  .    Entire Board of Directors  .  As used in this Article IX and in these By-Laws generally, the term  entire Board of Directors  means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies. 
                       
  Last Amended as of: October 26, 2011 
  Adopted as of:  March 29, 1999 

</EX-3.4>

<EX-21>
 3
 exhibit21-listofsubsidiari.htm
 EX-21

Exhibit 21 - List of Subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21 
  LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES 
  AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2011* 
    
                       Name 
      
    Jurisdiction of Incorporation 
      
    Percent 
  Ownership  

1.Priceline.com Europe Holdco, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      
    100% 
      2. Priceline.com Holdco U.K. Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      
    100% 
      3.priceline.com International Ltd. 
      
    United Kingdom 
      
    100% 
      4.Booking.com Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      
    100% 
      5.priceline.com Bookings Acquisition Company Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      
    100% 
      6.Booking.com B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
      
    100% 
      7.Lowestfare.com LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      
    100% 
      8. Travelweb LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      
    100% 
      9.Priceline.com Agoda Holdco, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      
    100% 
      10.priceline.com Mauritius Company Limited 
      
    Mauritius 
      
    100% 

* 
    Subsidiaries which, when considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary as of December 31, 2011, have been excluded. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 pcln-20111231_10kex231.htm
 EX-23.1

PCLN-2011 12.31_10K EX 23.1 

Exhibit 23.1 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements Nos. 333-151413, 333-122414, 333-65034, 333-55578, 333-83233 on Form S-8 of our reports dated February 27, 2012, relating to the consolidated financial statements of priceline.com Incorporated and subsidiaries (the  Company ) and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011. 

1 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 pcln-20111231_10kex311.htm
 EX-31.1

PCLN-2011.12.31_10K EX 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 
    
  CERTIFICATIONS 
    
  I, Jeffery H. Boyd, certify that: 
    
  1.            I have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated (the  Registrant ) for the year ended December 31, 2011; 
    
  2.             Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
    
  3.             Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
    
  4.             The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f)) for the Registrant and we have: 
    
           a. 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           b. 
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           c. 
    evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           d. 
    disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
  5.             The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
    
           a. 
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           b. 
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                   Dated: February 27, 2012 
      
    /s/ Jeffery H. Boyd 
        
    Name: 
    Jeffery H. Boyd 
        
    Title: 
    President   Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 pcln-20111231_10kex312.htm
 EX-31.2

PCLN-2011.12.31_10K EX 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 
    
  CERTIFICATIONS 
    
  I, Daniel J. Finnegan., certify that: 
    
  1.             I have reviewed the Annual Report on Form 10-K of priceline.com Incorporated (the  Registrant ) for the year ended December 31, 2011; 
    
  2.             Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
    
  3.             Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
    
  4.             The Registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and we have: 
    
           a. 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           b.                   
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           c.                    
    evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           d.                   
    disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
  5.             The Registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the Registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
    
           a.                    
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           b.                   
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
        
                   Dated: February 27, 2012 
      
    /s/ Daniel J. Finnegan 
        
    Name: 
    Daniel J. Finnegan 
        
    Title: 
    Chief Financial Officer and Chief 
  Accounting Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 pcln-20111231_10kex321.htm
 EX-32.1

PCLN-2011.12.31_10K EX 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 
    
  Certification 
  Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code) 
    
  Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge: 
    
  The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 12 months ended December 31, 2011 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
    
                   Dated: February 27, 2012 
      
    /s/ Jeffery H. Boyd 
        
    Name: 
    Jeffery H. Boyd 
        
    Title: 
    President   Chief Executive Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document. 
    
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 pcln-20111231_10kex322.htm
 EX-32.2

PCLN-2011.12.31_10K EX 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 
    
  Certification 
  Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
  (Subsections (a) and (b) of Section 1350, Chapter 63 of Title 18, United States Code) 
    
  Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), the undersigned officer of priceline.com Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby certifies that, to his knowledge: 
    
  The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 12 months ended December 31, 2011 (the  Report ) of the Company fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
    
                   Dated: February 27, 2012 
      
    /s/ Daniel J. Finnegan 
        
    Name: 
    Daniel J. Finnegan 
        
    Title: 
    Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer 

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code) and is not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document. 
    
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 pcln-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 pcln-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 pcln-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 pcln-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 pcln-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 pcln-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

