<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20081125_10-K_edgar_data_32604_0001144204-08-066523_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2780317</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>299818</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1944117</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>62</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001144204-08-066523.hdr.sgml : 20081125
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20081124184132
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001144204-08-066523
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20081125
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20081124

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMERSON ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000032604
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]
		IRS NUMBER:				430259330
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MO
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00278
		FILM NUMBER:		081211656

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W FLORISSANT AVE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3145532000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W. FLORISSANT
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EMERSON ELECTRIC MANUFACTUING CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730710

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BYB5cccNwyRjy9Ci1y2kInDt4JnZGX9vk8wBKkzb563r+5q9aJ0+Y2+sJaQv4C42
 qas5BORZRGoph3Gz78+gqQ==

 0001144204-08-066523.txt : 20081125

10-K
 1
 v132847_10k.htm

Unassociated Document

UNITED
        STATES  

         SECURITIES
        AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

         Washington,
        D.C. 20549   

FORM
        10-K  

x    
        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES  

         EXCHANGE
        ACT OF 1934  

For
        the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008  

OR 

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES  

         EXCHANGE
        ACT OF 1934  

For
        the
        transition period from ____________________ to __________________ 

Commission
        file number 1-278 

EMERSON
        ELECTRIC CO.  

        (Exact
        name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant's
        telephone number, including area code:    (314)
        553-2000  

Securities
        registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class  

Name of each exchange on  

                   which registered  

Common Stock
                  of $0.50 par value per share 

New
                  York Stock Exchange 

                  Chicago
                  Stock Exchange 

Preferred
                  Stock Purchase Rights 

New
                  York Stock Exchange 

                  Chicago
                  Stock Exchange 

Securities
        registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:    None  

Indicate
        by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
        in
        Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes    x   
        No

Indicate
        by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
        to
        Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes      
        No
   x     

Indicate
        by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to
        be
        filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
        the
        preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
        to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
        for
        the past 90 days. Yes    x   
        No

Indicate
        by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
        Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not
        be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy
        or
        information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
        10-K
        or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    x  

Indicate
        by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
        accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
        See
        the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
        reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  

Large
                  accelerated filer    x  

Accelerated
                  filer     

Non-accelerated filer       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Small
                  Reporting Company     

Indicate
        by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
        12b-2 of the Act).  

        Yes
                  No
           x  

Aggregate
        market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant
        as of
        close of business on March 31, 2008: $40.1 billion. 

Common
        stock outstanding at October 31, 2008: 767,063,304 shares. 

Documents
        Incorporated by Reference  

1.       Portions
        of Emerson Electric Co. 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders (Parts I and
        II). 

2.       Portions
        of Emerson Electric Co. Notice of 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and
        Proxy
        Statement (Part III). 

2 

PART
          I  

Item
          1. Business   

Emerson
          was incorporated in Missouri in 1890, and has grown from a regional manufacturer
          of electric motors and fans into a diversified global technology company.
          Having
          expanded its product lines through internal growth and acquisition, Emerson
          today is designing and supplying product technology and delivering engineering
          services in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets
          around
          the world. 

Emerson
          is organized into the following business segments, based on the nature
          of the
          products and services rendered: 

Process
                    Management, providing measurement, control and diagnostic capabilities
                    for
                    automated industrial processes producing items such as foods,
                    fuels,
                    medicines and power 

Industrial
                    Automation, bringing integrated manufacturing solutions to diverse
                    industries worldwide 

Network
                    Power, providing power and environmental conditioning and reliability
                    to
                    help keep telecommunication systems, data networks and critical
                    business
                    applications continuously operating 

Climate
                    Technologies, enhancing household and commercial comfort as well
                    as food
                    safety and energy efficiency through air-conditioning and refrigeration
                    technology 

Appliance
                    and Tools, providing uniquely designed motors for a broad range
                    of
                    applications, appliances and integrated appliance solutions,
                    and tools for
                    both homeowners and professionals, as well as home and commercial
                    storage
                    systems 

Sales,
          earnings before interest and income taxes, and total assets attributable
          to each
          segment for the three years ended September 30, 2008, are set forth in
          Note 16
          of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2008 Annual Report,
          which
          note is hereby incorporated by reference. Sales by segment in 2008 were
          Process
          Management 26 percent, Industrial Automation 19 percent, Network Power
          25
          percent, Climate Technologies 15 percent, and Appliance and Tools 15 percent.
          Sales by geographic destination in 2008 were United States 46 percent,
          Europe 23
          percent, Asia 18 percent and other regions 13 percent. Information with
          respect
          to acquisition and divestiture activities by Emerson is set forth in Note
          3 of
          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2008 Annual Report, which
          note
          is hereby incorporated by reference. 

PROCESS
          MANAGEMENT  

The
          Process Management segment offers customers product technology as well
          as
          engineering and project management services for precision control, monitoring
          and asset optimization of plants that produce power or that process or
          treat
          such items as oil, natural gas and petrochemicals; food and beverages;
          pulp and
          paper; pharmaceuticals; and municipal water supplies. This array of products
          and
          services helps customers optimize their process plant capabilities in the
          areas
          of plant safety and reliability, and product quality and output. In 2008,
          sales
          by geographic destination for this segment were United States 32 percent,
          Europe
          24 percent, Asia 21 percent and other regions 23 percent. 

Process
          Management Systems and Software 

Emerson s
            Process Management systems and software control plant processes by collecting
            and analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and
            by using
            that information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control
            hardware in the plant for maximum product quality and process efficiency.
            Emerson s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile
            workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location
            tracking
            of people and assets, enable video monitoring and communicate with wireless
            field devices, increasing the information available to operations.

3 

Measurement
            and Analytical Instrumentation 

Measurement
            instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases
            in a
            process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, or rate and amount
            of
            flow, and communicates this information to the control system. Measurement
            technologies provided by Emerson include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic
            flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultralow-flow
            fluid
            measurement, temperature sensors and radar based tank gauging. Emerson
            measurement products also are used in custody transfer applications,
            such as the
            transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise
            metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset
            management. 

Analytical
              instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids
              and
              emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental
              compliance. Emerson s analytical technologies include process gas
              chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process
              fluid
              analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure
              pH,
              conductivity and water quality. 

Emerson
              also provides these same technologies with wireless communication capability.
              This allows customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously
              not
              measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due
              to the
              cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants.

Valves,
              Actuators and Regulators 

Control
              valves respond to commands from the control system by continuously
              and precisely
              modulating the flow of process fluids to provide maximum process efficiency
              and
              product quality. Emerson provides sliding stem valves, rotary valves,
              butterfly
              valves and related valve actuators and controllers. Emerson also provides
              a line
              of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce
              the
              pressure of fluids such as natural gas and liquid petroleum gas for
              transfer
              from high-pressure supply lines to lower pressure systems. 

PlantWeb      
                 Digital
                Plant Architecture  

Emerson s
              PlantWeb       digital
              plant architecture combines the technologies described above with the
              advantages
              of  intelligent  plant devices (valves and measurement instruments that have
              advanced diagnostic capabilities), open communication standards (non-proprietary
              wired and wireless digital protocols allowing the plant devices and
              the control
              system to  talk  with one another) and integrated modular software, not only to
              control the process better but also to collect and analyze valuable
              information
              about plant assets and processes. This capability gives customers the
              ability to
              detect or predict changes in equipment and process performance and
              the impact
              they can have on plant operations. The PlantWeb       architecture
              provides the insight to improve plant availability and safety, and
              also
              furnishes a platform to continually improve asset management and standards
              compliance, and to reduce startup, operations and maintenance
              costs. 

Industry
                Services and Solutions 

Emerson s
                array of process automation and asset optimization services can improve
                automation project implementation time and costs, increase process
                availability
                and productivity, and reduce total cost of ownership. Global industry
                centers
                offer engineering and project management services to help customers
                extract
                maximum performance and reliability from their process equipment
                and automation
                assets. These centers serve industries such as oil and gas, pulp
                and paper,
                chemical, power, food and beverage, and life sciences. They also
                assist
                customers in diagnosing equipment problems and plant
                inefficiencies. 

4 

Distribution 

The
            principal worldwide distribution channel for the Process Management segment
            is a
            direct sales force, although a network of independent sales representatives,
            and
            to a lesser extent, independent distributors purchasing these products
            for
            resale are also utilized. The majority of sales in the United States
            are made
            through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent
            sales representatives. In Europe and Asia, sales are almost exclusively
            made
            through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between
            independent
            sales representatives and distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
            and trade names within the Process Management segment include Emerson
            Process
            Management, AMS Suite, Baumann, Bettis, Bristol, CSI, Damcos, Daniel,
            DeltaV,
            El-O-Matic, Fisher, Guardian, Micro Motion, Ovation, PlantWeb, ROC, Rosemount,
            Smart Process, SureService, Tescom and TopWorx. 

INDUSTRIAL
            AUTOMATION  

The
            Industrial Automation segment provides integrated manufacturing solutions
            to our
            customers at the source of manufacturing their own products. Products
            include
            motors, transmissions, alternators, fluid controls and materials joining
            equipment. Through these offerings, Emerson brings technology and enhanced
            quality to the customer s final product. In 2008, sales by geographic
            destination for this segment were United States 39 percent, Europe 42
            percent,
            Asia 11 percent and other regions 8 percent. 

Motors
            and Drives 

Emerson
            provides a broad line of drives and electric motors that are used in
            a wide
            variety of manufacturing operations and products, from production assembly
            lines
            to escalators in shopping malls or supermarket checkout stations. Products
            in
            this category include alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC)
            electronic variable speed drives, servo motors, pump motors, drive control
            systems, integral horsepower motors (1 HP and above), fractional horsepower
            motors (less than 1 HP) and gear drives. 

Power
            Transmission 

Emerson s
            power transmission products include belt and chain drives, helical and
            worm
            gearing, gear motors, motor sheaves, pulleys, mounted and unmounted bearings,
            couplings, chains and sprockets. They are used to transmit power mechanically
            in
            a wide range of manufacturing and material handling operations and products.
            Our
            design and application experience enable us to provide both standard
            and
            customized automation and power transmission solutions to our
            customers. 

Power
              Generation 

Emerson
              provides alternators (low, medium and high voltage) for use in diesel
              or gas
              powered generator sets, as well as high frequency alternators, AC
              motor/generator sets, traction generators and wind power
              generators. 

Fluid
              Power and Fluid Control 

Products
              in this category control and power the flow of fluids (liquids and
              gases) in
              manufacturing operations such as automobile assembly, food processing,
              textile
              manufacturing and petrochemical processing. They include solenoid and
              pneumatic
              valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders, air preparation
              equipment, and pressure, vacuum and temperature switches. 

5 

Materials
              Joining and Precision Cleaning 

Emerson
              supplies both plastics joining technologies and equipment, and metal
              welding and
              joining processes to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including
              automotive, medical devices and toys. We also provide precision cleaning
              and
              liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial manufacturers.
              Products
              include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment, linear and orbital
              vibration
              welding equipment, systems for hot plate welding, spin welding, and
              laser
              welding, and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning systems. 

Electrical
              Distribution 

Emerson s
              majority-owned EGS Electrical Group joint venture with SPX Corporation
              manufactures a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying
              electrical distribution devices. These products include conduit and
              cable
              fittings, plugs and receptacles, industrial lighting, and enclosures
              and
              controls. Products in this category are used in hazardous, industrial,
              commercial and construction environments, such as oil and gas drilling
              and
              production sites, pulp and paper mills and petrochemical plants. 

Distribution

On
              a
              worldwide basis, the primary distribution channel for the Industrial
              Automation
              segment is through direct sales forces. Most products sold worldwide
              to original
              equipment manufacturers are through a direct sales force. Independent
              distributors constitute the next significant sales channel, mostly
              to reach end
              users; and, to a lesser extent, independent sales representatives are
              utilized,
              particularly for electrical distribution products in the United States.

Brands 

Service/trademarks
                and trade names within the Industrial Automation segment include
                Emerson
                Industrial Automation, Appleton, ASCO, ASCO Joucomatic, Branson Ultrasonics,
                Browning, Control Techniques, Emerson Power Transmission, Kato Engineering,
                Kop-Flex, Leroy Somer, McGill, Morse, Numatics and O-Z/Gedney. 

NETWORK
                POWER  

Emerson s
                Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains
                products
                providing  grid to chip  electric power conditioning, power reliability and
                environmental control for telecommunications networks, data centers
                and other
                critical applications. Products in this segment include power systems,
                embedded
                power supplies, precision cooling and inbound power systems, along
                with 24-hour
                service. In 2008, sales by geographic destination for this segment
                were United
                States 41 percent, Europe 20 percent, Asia 28 percent and other regions
                11
                percent. 

Power
                Systems 

Emerson
                supplies uninterruptible AC and DC power systems, which provide reliable,
                conditioned power to telecommunication networks, data centers and
                other critical
                equipment in the event of a blackout or line surges and spikes. Power
                Systems 
products range from stand-alone units to complete systems incorporating
                rectifiers, distribution units, surge protection, batteries and system
                supervision. 

Embedded
                Power  

Embedded
                power supplies are installed by original equipment manufacturers
                to convert or
                condition power for microprocessors and peripherals in a wide range
                of
                telecommunication, health care, computer and industrial applications
                using
                standard or custom AC/DC or DC/DC designs. They are also used in
                consumer
                products, in the form of power adaptors for ink jet printers and
                in chargers for
                mobile phones. 

6 

Embedded
                Computing 

Embedded
                Computing designs and develops embedded computer systems for original
                equipment
                manufacturers and systems integrators serving telecommunications,
                defense,
                aerospace, medical and industrial automation end markets. Products
                range from
                communication platforms, blades and modules to enabling software
                and
                professional services. 

Precision
                Cooling 

Emerson s
                precision cooling products provide temperature and humidity control
                for
                computers, telecommunications and other sensitive equipment. These
                products
                range from 14,000 to 4 million BTUs in capacity and are available
                in up flow,
                down flow and overhead configurations. 

Inbound
                Power Systems 

Emerson
                inbound power technology provides reliable power systems which automatically
                transfer critical application loads from a utility to emergency backup
                generators in the event of a blackout or brownout. Products include
                automatic
                transfer switches, paralleling and synchronizing gear and related
                distribution
                equipment and control systems. 

Connectivity
                Solutions 

Emerson s
                connectivity products serve the needs of the wireless communications,
                telephony
                and data network, CATV, defense, security systems and health care
                industries and
                other industrial customers globally with a broad range of radio frequency,
                microwave and fiber optic interconnect components and assemblies. 

Service
                and Site Operations 

Emerson
                staffs Energy Operation Centers in more than 30 countries, and deploys
                field
                service personnel worldwide to assist customers in managing their
                network
                support systems. Our services include on-site operations management,
                energy
                consumption monitoring, preventive maintenance, electrical testing,
                remote
                monitoring and management, and 24-hour service capability. 

Distribution 

The
                Network Power segment sells primarily through worldwide direct sales
                force
                networks, particularly in Europe and Asia. The remainder of sales
                is handled by
                independent sales representatives, particularly in the United States,
                and
                independent distributors.  

Brands 

Service/trademarks
                and trade names within the Network Power segment include Emerson
                Network Power,
                Aperture, Artesyn, ASCO Power Technologies, Astec, Engineered Endeavors,
                Kn rr,
                Liebert, Liebert Services, Netsure, Netspan, Semflex, Stratos and
                Trompeter. 

CLIMATE
                TECHNOLOGIES  

The
                Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for all
                areas of the
                climate control industry, including residential, commercial and industrial
                heating and air conditioning, and commercial refrigeration. Our technology
                enables homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating,
                air-
                conditioning, and refrigeration systems for improved control and
                lower energy
                bills. This segment also digitally controls and remotely monitors
                refrigeration
                units in grocery stores and other food distribution outlets to enhance
                freshness
                and food safety. In 2008, sales by geographic destination for this
                segment were
                United States 55 percent, Europe 16 percent, Asia 18 percent and
                other regions
                11 percent. 

7 

Residential,
                Commercial and Industrial Heating and Air Conditioning 

Emerson
                provides a full range of heating and air-conditioning products that
                help reduce
                operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments
                in all types of
                buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll air-conditioning
                compressors, including an ultra-efficient residential scroll compressor
                with two
                stages of cooling capacity which runs at full capacity only during
                the hottest
                time periods; standard and programmable thermostats; monitoring equipment
                and
                electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas valves
                for
                furnaces and water heaters; nitride ignition systems for furnaces;
                sensors and
                thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and
                controls. 

Commercial
                Refrigeration 

Emerson s
                technology is incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and
                beverages in
                supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations and refrigerated
                trucks and transport containers. Our refrigeration products are also
                used in
                industrial applications, such as environmental test chambers, and
                in medical
                applications, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) machines.
                These products
                include compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics
                and controls
                that provide precise temperature management; and environmental control
                systems. 

Services
                and Solutions 

Emerson s
                services in this segment assist customers in improving their climate
                control
                systems for better control and efficiency relating to new refrigerants,
                energy
                efficiency standards, indoor air quality and food safety. We also
                provide remote
                monitoring of food refrigeration control systems, 24-hour energy
                supervision and
                service dispatch, and a process that audits food store mechanical
                systems to
                identify potential energy savings. 

Distribution 

Climate
                Technologies segment sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers
                and
                end users, are made predominately through worldwide direct sales
                force networks.
                The remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor
                networks
                throughout the world.  

Brands 

Service/trademarks
                and trade names within the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson
                Climate
                Technologies, Alco Controls, Clive Samuels   Associates, Computer Process
                Controls, Copeland, Design Services Network, Emerson Climate Technologies
                Distribution Services, Emerson Climate Technologies Educational Services,
                Emerson Climate Technologies Flow Controls, Emerson Climate Technologies
                Retail
                Services, Fusite, Therm-O-Disc and White-Rodgers. 

APPLIANCE
                  AND TOOLS  

Emerson s
                  Appliance and Tools segment includes a broad range of products
                  and solutions in
                  motors, appliances and components, tools and storage. In 2008,
                  sales by
                  geographic destination for this segment were United States 82 percent,
                  Europe 5
                  percent, Asia 3 percent and other regions 10 percent. 

Motors

Emerson
                  provides a broad range of electric motors, controls and assemblies
                  from
                  fractional to several thousand horsepower output. Each of these
                  products is
                  designed to give our customers the quality, reliability, and energy
                  efficiency
                  needed in their specific applications. Emerson s electric motors are used in a
                  variety of home appliances. They include variable, fixed and multi-speed
                  motors
                  used in horizontal and vertical axis washers, dryers, and dishwashers.
                  Our
                  motors are also used in residential and commercial pumps, such
                  as those provided
                  in spas, pools and golf course irrigation equipment; in HVAC equipment,
                  such as
                  furnaces, compressors, condenser fans, heat pumps, cooling towers
                  and commercial
                  air handlers; and in industrial, farming and mining applications,
                  where we offer
                  products such as explosion-proof motors, paint-free washdown motors
                  and
                  industrial severe duty motors. 

8 

Appliances
                  and Appliance Components 

Emerson
                  provides a number of appliances and appliance technology solutions,
                  ranging from
                  water valves and controls to heating elements and switches. Our
                  appliance
                  offering includes residential and commercial garbage disposers
                  and ceiling fans,
                  instant hot-water dispensers, and compact electric water heaters.
                  Our appliance
                  solutions provide integrated systems, sub-systems and components
                  for appliances
                  that include electronic and electromechanical controls for washers,
                  dryers,
                  dishwashers, refrigerators and other home appliances as well as
                  heating elements
                  for dishwashers, electric ovens and water heaters.  

Professional
                  and Do-It-Yourself Tools 

Our
                  pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals
                  to install
                  and repair piping systems. These tools include pipe wrenches, pipe
                  cutters, pipe
                  threading and roll grooving equipment; a time-saving system that
                  joins tubing
                  through mechanical crimping; drain cleaners; diagnostic systems
                  including
                  closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment;
                  and tubing
                  tools. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry
                  vacuums, rolling
                  storage boxes, truck work boxes, bolt cutters, and van and truck
                  ladder racks.
                  Do-it-yourself tools, available at home improvement retail outlets,
                  include
                  drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools, and wet-dry
                  vacuums. 

Storage
                  Solutions 

Emerson
                  provides a wide variety of freestanding, fixed and mobile storage
                  products for
                  residential, commercial, healthcare and food service applications.
                  Our products
                  for the home include wall-mounted and freestanding shelving systems,
                  cabinet and
                  closet organizers, home office storage, and drawer systems and
                  containers,
                  available in wire, stainless steel and laminate. Our storage solutions
                  also help
                  commercial customers utilize space in the most efficient manner.
                  These solutions
                  include storage and display shelving, stock-picking and kitting
                  carts, cabinets,
                  totes, bins, workstations, and merchandising and inventory storage
                  racks.
                  Products provided to the healthcare industry assist in medical
                  response and
                  treatment; they include emergency and operating room carts, medication
                  carts,
                  polymer and wire shelving systems, and sterile worktables. Our
                  food service
                  equipment helps meet the storage needs of the food service and
                  hospitality
                  industries, such as restaurants and hotels. This equipment includes
                  polymer and
                  wire storage systems, busing carts, pan and tray racks, transport
                  carts and
                  workstations. 

Distribution 

The
                    principal worldwide distribution channel for the Appliance and
                    Tools segment is
                    direct sales forces. Motors and appliance components and solutions
                    for original
                    equipment manufacturers are sold almost exclusively worldwide
                    through direct
                    sales force networks. Independent distributors constitute the
                    next most
                    significant sales channel, with professional tools sold almost
                    exclusively
                    worldwide through distributors; and, to a lesser extent, independent
                    sales
                    representatives are utilized, particularly for storage solutions.

Brands 

Service/trademarks
                    and trade names within the Appliance and Tools segment include
                    Emerson Appliance
                    Solutions, Emerson Heating Products, Emerson Motor Technologies,
                    Emerson
                    Professional Tools, Emerson Storage Solutions, ClosetMaid, Digital
                    Appliance
                    Controls, Emerson, Flo Healthcare, InSinkErator, Knaack, Lionville,
                    Mallory,
                    METRO, RIDGID, U.S. Electrical Motors and Weather Guard.  

9 

PRODUCTION  

Emerson
                    utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal
                    production
                    operations are metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, welding,
                    plating,
                    heat treating, painting and assembly. In addition, Emerson uses
                    specialized
                    production operations, including automatic and semiautomatic
                    testing, automated
                    material handling and storage, ferrous and nonferrous machining
                    and special
                    furnaces for heat treating and foundry applications. Management
                    believes the
                    equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are
                    of modern design
                    and are well maintained. 

RAW
                    MATERIALS   

Emerson's
                    major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper,
                    cast iron,
                    electronics, aluminum and brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics
                    and other
                    petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson has multiple sources of supply
                    for each of
                    its major requirements and is not significantly dependent on
                    any one or a few
                    suppliers. Although recent high prices for some raw materials
                    have caused
                    pricing pressures to some of our businesses, the raw materials
                    and various
                    purchased components required for its products have generally
                    been available in
                    sufficient quantities.  

PATENTS,
                    TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES  

The
                    Company has a number of patents, trademarks and licenses, obtained
                    over a number
                    of years and expiring at various times. While proprietary intellectual
                    property
                    is important to the Company, management believes the loss or
                    expiration of any
                    intellectual property right would not materially impact the Company
                    or any of
                    its segments.  

BACKLOG  

The
                    estimated consolidated order backlog of the Company was $5,518
                    million and
                    $4,917 million at September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
                    Nearly all of the
                    September 30, 2008 consolidated backlog amount is expected to
                    be shipped within
                    one year. The estimated backlog by business segment at September
                    30, 2008 and
                    2007 follows:  

10 

COMPETITION  

Emerson's
                    businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and
                    Emerson competes
                    on product performance, quality, service and/or price across
                    the industries and
                    markets served. A significant element of the Company's competitive
                    strategy is
                    to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality
                    products at
                    the best relevant global cost. Although no single company competes
                    directly with
                    Emerson in all of the Company's product lines, various companies
                    compete in one
                    or more product lines. Some of these companies have substantially
                    greater sales
                    and assets than Emerson, and Emerson also competes with many
                    smaller companies.
                    The number of Emerson's competitors varies by product line, and
                    management
                    believes that Emerson has a market leadership position in many
                    of these product
                    lines. 

RESEARCH
                    AND DEVELOPMENT  

Costs
                    associated with Company-sponsored research and development activities
                    were $458
                    million, $397 million and $356 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
                    respectively. 

ENVIRONMENT  

The
                    Company's manufacturing locations generate waste, the treatment,
                    storage,
                    transportation and disposal of which are subject to federal,
                    state and/or local
                    laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.
                    Compliance
                    with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment
                    or
                    otherwise relating to the protection of the environment has not
                    had a material
                    effect upon Emerson's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
                    position. It
                    is not anticipated that Emerson will have material capital expenditures
                    for
                    environmental control facilities during the next fiscal year. 

EMPLOYEES  

Emerson
                    and its subsidiaries had an average of approximately 140,700
                    employees during
                    2008. Management believes that the Company's employee relations
                    are favorable.
                    Some of the Company's employees are represented under collective
                    bargaining
                    agreements, but none of these agreements is considered significant. 

DOMESTIC
                    AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS  

International
                    sales were $13,479 million in 2008, $11,219 million in 2007 and
                    $9,166 million
                    in 2006, including U.S. exports of $1,537 million, $1,277 million
                    and $1,127
                    million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Although there
                    are additional
                    risks attendant to foreign operations, such as possible nationalization
                    of
                    facilities, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the movement
                    of funds,
                    Emerson's financial position has not been materially affected
                    thereby to date.
                    See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of
                    the 2008 Annual
                    Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further
                    information
                    with respect to foreign operations. 

INTERNET
                    ACCESS  

Emerson's
                    Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are
                    available without
                    charge through Emerson's web site on the Internet as soon as
                    reasonably
                    practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished
                    to, the
                    Securities and Exchange Commission. They may be accessed as follows:
                    www.emerson.com, Investor Relations, SEC Filings. Information
                    on Emerson s web
                    site does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. 

11 

The
                    information set forth under,  Item 1A. Risk Factors  is hereby incorporated by
                    reference. 

Item
                    1A. Risk Factors   

Investing
                    in our securities involves risks. We may amend or supplement
                    the risk factors
                    described below from time to time by other reports we file with
                    the SEC in the
                    future. 

We
                    Operate In Businesses That Are Subject To Competitive Pressures
                    That Could
                    Affect Prices Or Demand For Our Products  

Our
                    businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and
                    we compete on the
                    basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across
                    the
                    industries and markets served. A significant element of our competitive
                    strategy
                    is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high
                    quality products
                    at the best relevant global cost. Some of our competitors have
                    greater sales,
                    assets and financial resources than our Company. Competitive
                    pressures could
                    affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting
                    our profit margins
                    and/or resulting in a loss of market share. 

Our
                    Operating Results Depend In Part On Continued Successful Research,
                    Development
                    And Marketing Of New And/Or Improved Products And Services, And
                    There Can Be No
                    Assurance That We Will Continue To Successfully Introduce New
                    Products And
                    Services  

The
                    success of new and improved products and services depends on
                    their initial and
                    continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected
                    by varying
                    degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer
                    demand,
                    which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened
                    life cycles and
                    increased importance of being first to market with new products
                    and services. We
                    may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development,
                    production
                    and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively
                    impact our
                    operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing
                    a return on the
                    investments required to bring new products and services to market. 

We
                    Engage In Acquisitions, And May Encounter Difficulties In Integrating
                    These
                    Businesses And Therefore We May Not Realize The Anticipated Benefits
                    Of The
                    Acquisitions  

We
                    are a
                    company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic
                    acquisitions.
                    In the past several years, we have made various acquisitions
                    and entered into
                    joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our
                    business, and
                    may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions
                    will
                    depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired
                    in these
                    transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We
                    may encounter
                    difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations,
                    and in managing
                    strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree,
                    or timing, of
                    benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction.
                    Any of the
                    foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of
                    operations. 

Access
                    To Funding Through The Capital Markets Is Essential To The Execution
                    Of Our
                    Business Plan And If We Are Unable To Maintain Such Access We
                    Could Experience A
                    Material Adverse Effect On Our Business And Financial Results  

Our
                    ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions
                    and refinance
                    maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets
                    and sufficient
                    bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. If we are
                    unable to continue
                    to access the capital markets, we could experience a material
                    adverse effect on
                    our business and financial results. 

12 

We
                    Use A Variety Of Raw Materials And Components In Our Businesses,
                    And Significant
                    Shortages Or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs
                    And Adversely
                    Impact The Competitive Positions Of Our Products  

Our
                    major
                    requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron,
                    electronics,
                    aluminum and brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and other
                    petroleum-based
                    chemicals. Emerson has multiple sources of supply for each of
                    its major
                    requirements and is not significantly dependent on any one or
                    a few suppliers.
                    Significant shortages or price increases could affect the prices
                    our affected
                    businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive
                    position of their
                    products and services, which could adversely affect our results
                    of
                    operations. 

Our
                    Operations Depend On Production Facilities Throughout The World,
                    A Majority Of
                    Which Are Located Outside The United States And Subject To Increased
                    Risks Of
                    Disrupted Production Causing Delays In Shipments And Loss Of
                    Customers And
                    Revenue  

We
                    manage
                    businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority
                    of which are
                    located outside the United States. Serving a global customer
                    base requires that
                    we place more production in emerging markets to capitalize on
                    market
                    opportunities and maintain our best-cost position. Our international
                    production
                    facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster,
                    labor
                    strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health
                    concerns,
                    particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped
                    to handle such
                    occurrences. 

Our
                    manufacturing facilities abroad also may be more susceptible
                    to changes in laws
                    and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval
                    than our
                    domestic facilities. Any such disruption could cause delays in
                    shipments of
                    products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds
                    may not
                    adequately compensate us. 

Our
                    Substantial Sales Abroad Subject Us To Economic Risk As Our Results
                    Of
                    Operations May Be Adversely Affected By Foreign Currency Fluctuations
                    And
                    Changes In Local Government Regulations And Policies  

We
                    sell,
                    manufacture, engineer, and purchase products in overseas markets.
                    A significant
                    portion of our sales is outside the United States, and we expect
                    sales from non
                    - U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion
                    of our total
                    sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes
                    in local
                    government regulations and policies, including those related
                    to tariffs and
                    trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and
                    repatriation of
                    earnings. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur
                    from time to time
                    and could affect our operating results. While we monitor our
                    exchange rate
                    exposures and attempt to reduce this exposure through hedging
                    activities, this
                    risk could adversely affect our operating results. 

Downturns
                    In The End Markets That We Serve May Negatively Impact Our Segment
                    Revenues And
                    Profitability  

Our
                    segment revenues, operating results and profitability have varied
                    in the past
                    and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter in the future.
                    Profitability
                    can be negatively impacted by volatility in the end markets that
                    we serve.
                    Future downturns in any of the markets that we serve could adversely
                    affect our
                    overall sales and operating results.  

We
                    Are Subject To Litigation And Environmental Regulations That
                    Could Adversely
                    Impact Our Operating Results  

We
                    are,
                    and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings
                    and claims,
                    including those involving product liability and environmental
                    matters, several
                    of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages.
                    Given the
                    inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance
                    that existing
                    litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material
                    adverse
                    impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating
                    to
                    environmental protection and the discharge of materials into
                    the environment,
                    and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance
                    with or
                    liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental
                    laws. 

Item
                    1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None. 

13 

Item
                    2. Properties   

At
                    September 30, 2008, Emerson had approximately 255 manufacturing
                    locations
                    worldwide, of which approximately 165 were located outside the
                    United States,
                    primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, Canada and
                    Latin America.
                    The approximate numbers of manufacturing locations by business
                    segment are:
                    Process Management, 60; Industrial Automation, 75; Network Power,
                    40; Climate
                    Technologies, 40; and Appliance and Tools, 40. The majority of
                    the locations are
                    owned, with the remainder occupied under operating or capital
                    leases. The
                    Company considers its facilities suitable and adequate for the
                    purposes for
                    which they are used. 

Item
                    3. Legal Proceedings   

The
                    information regarding legal proceedings set forth in Note 12
                    of Notes to
                    Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2008 Annual Report is
                    hereby
                    incorporated by reference. 

Item
                    4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

There
                    were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during
                    the quarter ended
                    September 30, 2008. 

_____________________________________________________________ 

Executive
                    Officers of the Registrant 

The
                    following sets forth certain information as of November 2008
                    with respect to
                    Emerson's executive officers. Fiscal Year column indicates the
                    first year the
                    executive served as an officer of the Company. These officers
                    have been elected
                    or appointed to terms which will expire February 3, 2009: 

*Also
                    chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.

There
                    are
                    no family relationships among any of the executive officers and
                    directors. 

14 

David
                    N.
                    Farr has been Chief Executive Officer since October 2000 and
                    was also appointed
                    Chairman of the Board in September 2004 and appointed President
                    in November
                    2005. Craig W. Ashmore has been Senior Vice President - Planning
                    and Development
                    since October 2004. Prior to his current position, Mr. Ashmore
                    was Group Vice
                    President from 2003 to 2004 and Vice President - Profit Planning
                    from 2001 to
                    2003. Walter J. Galvin was appointed Senior Executive Vice President
                    in October
                    2004 and has been Chief Financial Officer since 1993. Prior to
                    his current
                    position, Mr. Galvin was Executive Vice President from February
                    2000 to October
                    2004. Edward L. Monser was appointed Chief Operating Officer
                    in November
                    2001. Charles A. Peters has been Senior Executive Vice President since
                    October 2000. Richard J. Schlueter has been Vice President Accounting
                    since 1999
                    and was also appointed Chief Accounting Officer in February 2003.
  Frank
                    L.
                    Steeves was appointed Senior Vice President, Secretary and General
                    Counsel in
                    March 2007, prior to which he was Vice Chairman of the Milwaukee-based
                    law firm
                    of von Briesen   Roper, S.C., which has provided legal services to the
                    Company since 2001. Mr. Steeves joined von Briesen and Roper
                    as a partner in
                    2001, and became Vice Chairman of the firm in 2004. 

PART
                      II  

Item
                      5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
                      Matters and Issuer
                      Purchases of Equity Securities   

The
                      information regarding the market for the Company's common stock,
                      quarterly
                      market price ranges and dividend payments set forth in Note
                      18 of Notes to
                      Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2008 Annual Report
                      is hereby
                      incorporated by reference. There were approximately 26,445
                      stockholders of
                      record at September 30, 2008. 

Repurchases
                      of equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2008 are
                      listed in the
                      following table. 

The
                      Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 80
                      million
                      shares under the November 2001 program, as adjusted for the
                      Company s December
                      2006 two-for-one stock split. The Board of Directors approved
                      a new program on
                      May 6, 2008, for the repurchase of up to 80 million additional
                      shares. The
                      maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the
                      2008 program was
                      72.4 million and no shares remain under the November 2001
                      program. 

15 

Item
                      6. Selected Financial Data   

Years
                        ended September 30 

                        (dollars
                        in millions, except per share amounts) 

Information
                      presented in the selected financial data reflects the December
                      2006 two-for-one
                      stock split.   The
                      European appliance motor and pump business for all periods
                      presented and the
                      Brooks Instrument flow meters and flow controls unit for 2008
                      only are
                      classified as discontinued operations. See Note 3 of Notes
                      to Consolidated
                      Financial Statements of the 2008 Annual Report, which note
                      is hereby
                      incorporated by reference, for information regarding the Company's
                      acquisition
                      and divestiture activities.  

(a)  
                      Fiscal
                      2005 includes tax expense of $63 million ($0.07 per share)
                      related to the
                      repatriation of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation
                      Act of 2004.

Item
                      7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
                      and Results of
                      Operations   

Information
                      appearing under  Results of Operations,   Financial Position, Capital Resources
                      and Liquidity,   Critical Accounting Policies  and the "Safe Harbor Statement"
                      in the 2008 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. 

Fiscal
                      2009 Outlook  

Fiscal
                      year 2008 was a record year and Emerson is well positioned
                      moving into an
                      uncertain 2009 recessionary environment. Reported sales are
                      forecast to be in
                      the range of $23.5 billion to $25.5 billion, or negative 5
                      percent to positive 3
                      percent compared to 2008 sales of $24.8 billion. Underlying sales growth is
                      expected to be in the range of negative 4 percent to positive
                      4 percent, which
                      excludes an estimated 5 percent unfavorable impact of foreign
                      currency
                      translation at current exchange rates, and a favorable impact
                      from completed and
                      assumed future acquisitions of approximately 4 percent. Based on this level
                      of sales, the Company forecasts 2009 earnings per share in
                      the range of $2.80 to
                      $3.20. There can be no assurance when and if future acquisitions
                      will be
                      completed, and what impact future exchange rates will have. 

16 

Non-GAAP
                      Financial Measures  

To
                      supplement Emerson s financial information presented in accordance with
                      generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management
                      uses additional
                      measures, including non-GAAP financial measures as such term
                      is defined in
                      Regulation G under the rules of the Securities and Exchange
                      Commission, to
                      clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects
                      for the
                      future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical
                      measure of a
                      company s financial performance, financial position or cash flows that
                      exclude
                      (or include) amounts that are included in (or excluded from)
                      the most directly
                      comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with
                      GAAP. For
                      example, these financial measures may exclude the impact of
                      certain unique items
                      such as acquisitions, divestitures, one-time gains and losses
                      or items outside
                      of management s control (e.g., foreign currency exchange rates). Management
                      believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide
                      investors and
                      analysts useful insight into Emerson s financial position and
                      performance. 

Underlying
                        sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures
                        during the
                        periods presented, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
                        rates, are
                        provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons
                        of sales growth by
                        excluding these unique items that impact the overall comparability.
                        Underlying
                        sales should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative
                        to net sales as
                        determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

Operating
                        profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling,
                        general and
                        administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined
                        as operating
                        profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term
                        operational
                        performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely
                        monitors operating
                        profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate
                        past performance
                        and actions required to improve profitability. Operating
                        profit and operating
                        profit margin should be viewed in addition to, and not as
                        an alternative to
                        pretax earnings or profit margin as determined in accordance
                        with U.S.
                        GAAP. 

Earnings,
                        earnings per share, return on equity and return on total
                        capital excluding
                        one-time gains and losses provide additional insight into
                        the underlying,
                        ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate
                        period-to-period
                        comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items.
                        Given the unique
                        nature of these items, management believes that presenting
                        earnings, earnings
                        per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding
                        them is more
                        representative of the Company s operational performance and may be more useful
                        for investors. However, these financial measures are not
                        intended to replace
                        earnings, earnings per share, return on equity or return
                        on total capital as
                        determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

Free
                        cash
                        flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an
                        indicator of the
                        Company s cash generating capabilities after considering investments
                        in capital
                        assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing
                        operations.
                        Operating cash flow adds back non-cash depreciation expense
                        to earnings and
                        thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures.
                        Although     management
                        believes that free cash flow is useful to both management
                        and investors as a
                        measure of the Company s ability to generate cash, it is not intended to replace
                        operating cash flow as determined in accordance with U.S.
                        GAAP. 

Overall,
                        while Emerson believes these non-GAAP financial measures
                        are useful in
                        evaluating the Company, this information should be considered
                        as supplemental in
                        nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related
                        financial
                        information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, the
                        calculation of these
                        non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation
                        of similarly titled
                        financial measures presented by other companies, and therefore
                        they may not be
                        comparable among companies. 

Item
                        7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
                        Risk   

Information
                        appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2008 Annual
                        Report is hereby
                        incorporated by reference.  

Item
                        8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   

The
                        consolidated financial statements of the Company and its
                        subsidiaries and the
                        report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2008 Annual Report are
                        hereby incorporated by
                        reference. 

17 

Item
                        9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
                        and Financial
                        Disclosure   

None. 

Item
                        9A. Controls and Procedures   

Emerson
                        maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures
                        which are designed to
                        ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company
                        in the reports
                        filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                        is recorded,
                        processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
                        specified in the
                        SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated
                        to management,
                        including the Company s certifying officers, as appropriate to allow timely
                        decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on an evaluation
                        performed, the
                        Company's certifying officers have concluded that the disclosure
                        controls and
                        procedures were effective as of September 30, 2008, to provide
                        reasonable
                        assurance of the achievement of these objectives.  

Notwithstanding
                        the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the Company's
                        disclosure controls
                        and procedures will detect or uncover all failures of persons
                        within the Company
                        and its consolidated subsidiaries to report material information
                        otherwise
                        required to be set forth in the Company's reports. 

There
                        was
                        no change in the Company's internal control over financial
                        reporting during the
                        quarter ended September 30, 2008, that has materially affected,
                        or is reasonably
                        likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control
                        over financial
                        reporting.  

Management s
                        report on internal control over financial reporting, and
                        the related report of
                        the Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting
                        firm, appearing in the 2008 Annual Report are hereby incorporated
                        by reference.

Item
                        9B. Other Information   

None.

PART
                        III  

Item
                        10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
                        Governance   

Information
                        regarding nominees and directors appearing under "Nominees
                        and Continuing
                        Directors" in the Emerson Electric Co. Notice of Annual Meeting
                        of Stockholders
                        and Proxy Statement for the February 2009 annual stockholders'
                        meeting (the
                        "2009 Proxy Statement") is hereby incorporated by reference.
                        Information
                        regarding executive officers is set forth in Part I of this
                        report. Information
                        appearing under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
                        Compliance" in the
                        2009 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.
                        Information regarding
                        the Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert
                        appearing under "Board
                        of Directors and Committees" in the 2009 Proxy Statement
                        is hereby incorporated
                        by reference.  

Emerson
                        has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to the Company's
                        chief executive
                        officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer
                        and controller; has
                        posted such Code of Ethics on its Internet web site; and
                        intends to satisfy the
                        disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting
                        such information
                        on its Internet web site. Emerson has adopted Charters for
                        its Audit Committee,
                        Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating
                        Committee and a
                        Code of Business Ethics for directors, officers and employees,
                        which are
                        available on its Internet web site and are available in print
                        to any shareholder
                        who requests them. Emerson has also adopted Corporate Governance
                        Principles and
                        Practices, which are available on its Internet web site and
                        are available in
                        print to any shareholder who requests them. The Company's
                        Internet web site may
                        be accessed as follows: www.emerson.com, Investor Relations,
                        Corporate
                        Governance. 

18 

Item
                        11. Executive Compensation   

Information
                        appearing under  Board of Directors and Committees Compensation Committee, 
 Board of Directors and Committees Corporate Governance and Nominating
                        Committee,   Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation  (including, but
                        not limited to, the information set forth under  Compensation Discussion and
                        Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report  and  Summary Compensation Table ) and
 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in the 2009 Proxy
                        Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

The
                        information contained in  Compensation Committee Report  shall not be deemed to
                        be  filed  with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to
                        the
                        liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act
                        of 1934 (the  Exchange
                        Act ), except to the extent that Emerson specifically incorporates
                        such
                        information into future filings, under the Securities Act
                        of 1933 or the
                        Exchange Act. 

Item
                        12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
                        and Related
                        Stockholder Matters   

The
                        information regarding beneficial ownership of shares by nominees
                        and continuing
                        directors, named executive officers and by all directors
                        and executive officers
                        as a group appearing under "Stock Ownership of Directors
                        and Executive Officers"
                        in the 2009 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.

Equity
                        Compensation Plan Information   

The
                        following table sets forth aggregate information regarding
                        the Company s equity
                        compensation plans as of September 30, 2008: 

Number of Securities  

Remaining Available for  

Number of Securities  

Weighted-Average  

Future Issuance under  

to be Issued upon  

Exercise Price of  

Equity Compensation  

Exercise of  

Outstanding  

Plans (Excluding  

Outstanding Options,  

Options, Warrants  

Securities Reflected in  

Warrants and Rights  

and Rights  

Column (a))  

Plan Category  

(a)  

(b)  

(c)  

Equity
                                    compensation plans approved by security holders(1) 

19,359,953 

$36.31 

27,729,440 

Equity
                                    compensation plans not approved by security holders 

- 

- 

- 

Total 

19,359,953 

$36.31 

27,729,440 

(1)  
                               
                                  Includes
                                  the Company s Stock Option and previously approved Incentive
                                  Shares Plans.
                                  Included in column (a) are 5,008,800 shares reserved
                                  for performance share
                                  awards (awarded in 2007), which will be distributed
                                  primarily in shares of
                                  common stock and partially in cash contingent upon
                                  the Company achieving
                                  the financial objective through 2010 and performance
                                  of services by the
                                  employees. As provided by the Company s Incentive Shares Plans,
                                  performance share awards represent a commitment
                                  to issue such shares
                                  without cash payment by the employee, contingent
                                  upon achievement of the
                                  objective and the performance of services by the
                                  employee. The price in
                                  column (b) represents the weighted-average exercise
                                  price for outstanding
                                  options. Included in column (c) are 15,958,094
                                  shares remaining available
                                  for award under the previously approved 2006 Incentive
                                  Shares Plan and
                                  410,254 shares remaining available under the previously
                                  approved
                                  Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management
                                  Directors. 

19 

Information
                        regarding stock option plans and incentive shares plans set
                        forth in Note 14 of
                        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2008 Annual
                        Report is hereby
                        incorporated by reference. 

Item
                        13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
                        Independence   

Information
                        appearing under  Director Independence  in the 2009 Proxy Statement is hereby
                        incorporated by reference. 

Item
                        14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   

Information
                        appearing under "Fees Paid to KPMG LLP" in the 2009 Proxy
                        Statement is hereby
                        incorporated by reference.  

PART
                        IV  

Item
                        15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   

A)  
                               
                                  Documents
                                  filed as a part of this report: 

1.  
                               
                                  The
                                  consolidated financial statements of the Company
                                  and its subsidiaries and
                                  the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2008 Annual
                                  Report.  

2.   
                               
                                  Financial
                                  Statement Schedules 

All schedules are
                                omitted because they are not
                                required, not applicable or the information is given
                                in the financial
                                statements or notes thereto contained in the 2008
                                Annual
                                Report.   

3.  
                               
                                  Exhibits
                                  (Listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit
                                  Table of Item 601 in
                                  Regulation S-K). 

3(a)  
                               
                                  Restated
                                  Articles of Incorporation of Emerson Electric Co.,
                                  incorporated by
                                  reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for
                                  the quarter ended March
                                  31, 2001, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 3(a); Termination
                                  of Designated Shares
                                  of Stock and Certificate of Designation, Preferences
                                  and Rights of Series
                                  B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, incorporated
                                  by reference to
                                  Emerson Electric Co. 1998 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278,
                                  Exhibit
                                  3(a). 

4(a)  
                               
                                  Indenture
                                  dated as of April 17, 1991, between Emerson Electric
                                  Co. and The Boatmen's
                                  National Bank of St. Louis, Trustee, incorporated
                                  by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Registration Statement on Form S-3,
                                  File No. 33-62545,
                                  Exhibit 4.1. 

20 

No
                        other
                        long-term debt instruments are filed since the total amount
                        of securities
                        authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10 percent
                        of the total
                        assets of Emerson Electric Co. and its subsidiaries on a
                        consolidated basis.
                        Emerson Electric Co. agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments
                        to the
                        Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 

4(c)  
                               
                                  Rights
                                  Agreement dated as of November 1, 1998, between
                                  Emerson Electric Co. and
                                  ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C., incorporated
                                  by reference to
                                  Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-A, dated October 6,
                                  1998, File No. 1-278,
                                  Exhibit 1.  

10(c)*  
                               
                                  Amended
                                  and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Continuing Compensation
                                  Plan for
                                  Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference
                                  to Emerson Electric
                                  Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
                                  10(c). 

10(d)*  
                               
                                  Amended
                                  and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee
                                  Directors and
                                  Forms of Payment Election Form, Initial Notice
                                  of Election and Notice of
                                  Election Change, incorporated by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. 2007
                                  Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
                                  10(d). 

10(e)*  
                               
                                  First
                                  Amendment to the Emerson Electric Co. Supplemental
                                  Executive Retirement
                                  Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric
                                  Co. 1999 Form 10-K,
                                  File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and Form of Change
                                  of Control Election,
                                  incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
                                  Form 8-K dated October
                                  1, 2004, Exhibit 10.9 (applicable only with respect
                                  to benefits vested as
                                  of December 31, 2004). 

10(f)*  
                                 
                                    Amended
                                    and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Pension Restoration
                                    Plan and Forms of
                                    Participation Award Letter, Acceptance of Award
                                    and Benefit Election Forms
                                    (applicable only with respect to benefits after
                                    January 1, 2005),
                                    incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric
                                    Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No.
                                    1-278, Exhibit 10(f). 

10(g)*  
                               
                                  Fifth
                                  Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Savings
                                  Investment Plan,
                                  incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
                                  Form 10-Q for the
                                  quarter ended March 31, 1999, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
                                  10(j), and Form of
                                  Participation Agreement and Form of Annual Election,
                                  incorporated by
                                  reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated
                                  October 1, 2004, Exhibit
                                  10.8 (applicable only with respect to benefits
                                  vested as of December 31,
                                  2004).  

10(h)*  
                               
                                  Amended
                                  and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Savings Investment
                                  Restoration Plan and
                                  Forms of Participation Agreement, Annual Election
                                  Form and Payment
                                  Election Form (applicable only with respect to
                                  benefits after January 1,
                                  2005), incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric
                                  Co. 2007 Form 10-K,
                                  File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and First Amendment
                                  to Emerson Electric Co.
                                  Savings Investment Restoration Plan, incorporated
                                  by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
                                  31, 2008, File No.
                                  1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

21 

10(i)*  
                               
                                  Amended
                                  and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Annual Incentive
                                  Plan and Form of
                                  Acceptance of Award, incorporated by reference
                                  to Emerson Electric Co.
                                  2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
                                  10(i). 

10(k)*  
                               
                                  1998
                                  Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
                                  Emerson Electric Co. 1998
                                  Proxy Statement dated December 12, 1997, File No.
                                  1-278, Appendix A, and
                                  Amendment No. 1 thereto, incorporated by reference
                                  to Emerson Electric Co.
                                  2000 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit   10(l),
                                  Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option
                                  Agreement and Form of
                                  Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated
                                  by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
                                  10.1, and Form of
                                  Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement
                                  and Form of
                                  Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated
                                  by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
                                  10.2. 

10(l)*  
                               
                                  2001
                                  Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
                                  Emerson Electric Co. 2002
                                  Proxy Statement dated December 12, 2001, File No.
                                  1-278, Appendix A, Form
                                  of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option
                                  Agreement and Form of
                                  Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated
                                  by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
                                  10.3, and Form of
                                  Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement
                                  and Form of
                                  Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated
                                  by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
                                  10.4. 

10(m)*  
                               
                                  Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Description of Split Dollar Life Insurance
                                  Program
                                  Transition, incorporated by reference to Emerson
                                  Electric Co. Form 8-K
                                  dated August 31, 2005, Exhibit
                                  10.1. 

10(n)*  
                                     
                                        Emerson
                                        Electric Co. Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management
                                        Directors,
                                        incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric
                                        Co. 2005 Proxy Statement
                                        dated December 8, 2004, Appendix B, and Form
                                        of Award Letter under the
                                          Emerson
                                        Electric Co. Res  tricted
                                        Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors,
                                        incorporated by reference to
                                        Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated February
                                        1, 2005, Exhibit
                                        10.2. 

10(p)*  
                               
                                  Description
                                  of Named Executive Officer Compensation, incorporated
                                  by reference to
                                  Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter
                                  ended December 31, 2004,
                                  Exhibit 10.1. 

22 

10(t)*  
                                 
                                    Consulting
                                    Contract made and entered into as of April 4,
                                    2007, by and between Emerson
                                    Electric Co. and W. Wayne Withers, incorporated
                                    by reference to Emerson
                                    Electric Co. Form 8-K dated April 4, 2007, Exhibit
                                    10.2. 

12  
                                 
                                    Ratio
                                    of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

13  
                                     
                                        Portions
                                        of Emerson Electric Co. Annual Report to
                                        Stockholders for the year ended
                                        September 30, 2008, incorporated by reference
                                        herein. 

21  
                                 
                                    Subsidiaries
                                    of Emerson Electric Co. 

23  
                                 
                                    Consent
                                    of Independent Registered Public Accounting
                                    Firm. 

*
                          Management contract or compensatory plan. 

23 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
                        to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
                        Exchange Act of
                        1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
                        on its behalf by
                        the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

EMERSON
                                      ELECTRIC CO. 

By 

/s/

W.
                                      J. Galvin 

W.
                                      J. Galvin 

Senior
                                      Executive Vice President 

and
                                      Chief Financial Officer 

Date:
                        November 24, 2008 

Pursuant
                        to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
                        this report has been
                        signed below on November 24, 2008, by the following persons
                        on behalf of the
                        registrant and in the capacities indicated. 

Signature 

Title 

/s/
                                      D. N. Farr 

Chairman
                                      of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President 

D.
                                      N. Farr 

/s/
                                      W. J. Galvin 

Senior
                                      Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
                                      and
                                      Director 

W.
                                      J. Galvin 

/s/
                                      R. J. Schlueter 

Vice
                                      President and Chief Accounting Officer 

R.
                                      J. Schlueter 

* 

Director 

A.
                                      A. Busch III 

* 

Director 

D.
                                      C. Farrell 

* 

Director 

C.
                                      Fernandez G. 

* 

Director 

A.
                                      F. Golden 

* 

Director 

H.
                                      Green 

24 

* 

Director 

R.
                                      B. Horton 

* 

Director 

W.
                                      R. Johnson 

* 

Director 

V.
                                      R. Loucks, Jr. 

* 

Director 

J.
                                      B. Menzer 

* 

Director 

C.
                                      A. Peters 

* 

Director 

J.
                                      W. Prueher 

* 

Director 

R.
                                      L. Ridgway 

* 

Director 

R.
                                      L. Stephenson 

* By 

/s/ 

W.
                                    J. Galvin 

W.
                                    J. Galvin 

Attorney-in-fact 

25 

INDEX
                        TO EXHIBITS   

Exhibits
                        are listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table
                        of Item 601 in
                        Regulation S-K.  

Exhibit No.  

Exhibit  

12 

Ratio
                                  of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

13 

Portions
                                  of Emerson Electric Co. Annual Report to Stockholders
                                  for the year ended
                                  September 30, 2008, incorporated by reference herein 

21 

Subsidiaries
                                  of Emerson Electric Co. 

23 

Consent
                                  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

24 

Power
                                  of Attorney 

31 

Certifications
                                  pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a - 14(a) 

32 

Certifications
                                  pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a - 14(b) and 18
                                  U.S.C. Section
                                  1350 

*Management
                        contract or compensatory plan. 

See
                        Item 15(A) 3. for a list of exhibits incorporated by reference.

26 

<EX-12>
 2
 v132847_ex12.htm

Exhibit
        12 

EMERSON
        ELECTRIC CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

         COMPUTATION
        OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES  

         (Dollars
        in Millions)  

(a)  
               
                  Represents
                  earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and minority
                  interests in the income of consolidated subsidiaries with fixed
                  charges. 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 v132847_ex13.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      13 

[
      16 ]
  Emerson
      2008 

FINANCIAL
          REVIEW 

Report
      of Management  

The
      Company   s
      management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the financial
      statements. Management believes that the financial statements for the three
      years ended September 30, 2008, have been prepared in conformity with U.S.
      generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances.
      In
      preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and
      estimates where necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and
      transactions that have not been completed. The Company   s
      disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information required
      to
      be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to management
      and reported within the required time periods. 

In
      meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial statements,
      management relies on a system of internal accounting control. This system is
      designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and
      transactions are executed in accordance with management   s
      authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial
      statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
      The
      design of this system recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur and
      that estimates and judgments are required to assess the relative cost and
      expected benefits of the controls. Management believes that the Company   s
      accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities
      that could be material to the financial statements are prevented or would be
      detected within a timely period. 

The
      Audit
      Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent
      Directors, is responsible for overseeing the Company   s
      financial reporting process. The Audit Committee meets with management and
      the
      internal auditors periodically to review the work of each and to monitor the
      discharge by each of its responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets
      periodically with the independent auditors who have free access to the Audit
      Committee and the Board of Directors to discuss the quality and acceptability
      of
      the Company   s
      financial reporting, internal controls, as well as non-audit-related
      services. 

The
      independent auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company   s
      consolidated financial statements and on the Company   s
      internal control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on
      procedures that they believe to be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance
      that the financial statements contain no material errors and that the
      Company   s
      internal controls are effective. 

Management   s
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

The
      Company   s
      management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
      control over financial reporting for the Company. With the participation of
      the
      Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, management conducted
      an
      evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
      based on the framework and the criteria established in    Internal
      Control   Integrated Framework,    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based
      on
      this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial
      reporting was effective as of September 30, 2008. 

The
      Company   s
      auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued
      an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company   s
      internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/
                David N. Farr 

/s/
                Walter J. Gavin 

David
                N. Farr 

Walter
                J. Galvin 

Chairman
                of the Board,  

                 Chief
                Executive Officer,  

                 and
                President  

Senior
                Executive Vice President  

                 and
                Chief Financial Officer  

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [
        17
        ] 

Results
      of Operations  

       Years
      ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share
      amounts  

OVERVIEW    

Emerson
      achieved record sales, earnings and earnings per share in the fiscal year ended
      September 30, 2008. For fiscal 2008 net sales were $24.8 billion, an increase
      of
      12 percent; earnings from continuing operations and earnings from continuing
      operations per share were $2.5 billion and $3.11, increases of 15 percent and
      17
      percent, respectively; net earnings and net earnings per share were $2.4 billion
      and $3.06, increases of 13 percent and 15 percent, respectively, over fiscal
      2007. Four of the five business segments generated higher sales and earnings
      compared with the prior year. The Process Management, Network Power and
      Industrial Automation businesses drove gains, while growth in the Climate
      Technologies and Appliance and Tools businesses was moderated by weakness in
      the
      U.S. consumer appliance and residential end-markets. Strong growth in Asia,
      Latin America and Middle East/Africa, favorable foreign currency translation,
      and acquisitions contributed to these results. Profit margins remained at high
      levels, primarily because of leverage on higher sales volume and benefits
      derived from previous rationalization actions. Emerson   s
      financial position remains strong and the Company generated substantial
      operating cash flow in 2008 of $3.3 billion, an increase of 9 percent, and
      free
      cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) of $2.6 billion,
      an
      increase of 10 percent. Emerson maintains a conservative financial structure
      to
      provide the strength and flexibility necessary to achieve our strategic
      objectives. 

NET
      SALES    

Net
      sales
      for fiscal 2008 were a record $24.8 billion, an increase of approximately $2.7
      billion, or 12 percent, over fiscal 2007, with international sales leading
      the
      overall growth. The Network Power, Process Management and Industrial Automation
      businesses drove sales growth, while the Appliance and Tools and Climate
      Technologies businesses continued to be impacted by the U.S. consumer slowdown.
      The consolidated results reflect increases in four of the five business segments
      with an approximate 7 percent ($1,523 million) increase in underlying sales
      (which exclude acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation),
      a 4
      percent ($809 million) favorable impact from foreign currency translation and
      a
      1 percent ($344 million) contribution from acquisitions, net of divestitures.
      The underlying sales increase for the fiscal 2008 year was driven by a total
      international sales increase of more than 10 percent and a 3 percent increase
      in
      the United States. The international sales increase primarily reflects growth
      in
      Asia (17 percent), Latin America (18 percent), Middle East/Africa (17 percent)
      and Europe (3 percent). The Company estimates that the underlying sales growth
      of approximately 7 percent primarily reflects an approximate 6 percent gain
      from
      volume, which includes an approximate 2 percent impact from penetration gains,
      and an approximate 1 percent impact from higher sales prices. 

[
        18 ]
  Emerson
        2008 

Net
      sales
      for fiscal 2007 were $22.1 billion, an increase of approximately $2.4 billion,
      or 12 percent, over fiscal 2006, with international sales leading the overall
      growth. The consolidated results reflect increases in all five business segments
      with an approximate 7 percent ($1,349 million) increase in underlying sales,
      a
      nearly 3 percent ($566 million) contribution from acquisitions, net of
      divestitures, and a more than 2 percent ($482 million) favorable impact from
      foreign currency translation. The underlying sales increase for fiscal 2007
      was
      driven by international sales growth of 13 percent and a 2 percent increase
      in
      the United States. The U.S. results reflect a modest decline in the first
      quarter with moderate growth during the remainder of the year. The international
      sales increase primarily reflects growth in Asia (16 percent) and Europe (9
      percent). The Company estimates that the underlying sales growth of
      approximately 7 percent primarily reflects an approximate 5 percent gain from
      volume, which includes an approximate 2 percent impact from penetration gains,
      and an approximate 2 percent impact from higher sales prices.  

INTERNATIONAL
      SALES  

International
      destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased approximately 20 percent,
      to $13.5 billion in 2008, representing 54 percent of the Company   s
      total sales. U.S. exports of $1,537 million were up 20 percent compared with
      2007, reflecting strong growth in the Network Power, Process Management and
      Climate Technologies businesses aided by the weaker U.S. dollar, as well as
      the
      benefit from acquisitions. International subsidiary sales, including shipments
      to the United States, were $12.0 billion in 2008, up 19 percent over 2007.
      Excluding the net 8 percent favorable impact from acquisitions, divestitures
      and
      foreign currency translation, international subsidiary sales increased 11
      percent compared with 2007. Underlying destination sales grew 17 percent in
      Asia
      during the year, driven mainly by 21 percent growth in China, while sales grew
      18 percent   in
      Latin
      America, 17 percent in Middle East/Africa and 3 percent in Europe. 

International
      destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased approximately 22 percent
      including acquisitions, to $11.2 billion in 2007, representing 51 percent of
      the
      Company   s
      total sales. U.S. exports of $1,277 million were up 13 percent compared with
      2006, aided by the weaker U.S. dollar. International subsidiary sales, including
      shipments to the United States, were $10.1 billion in 2007, up 22 percent over
      2006. Excluding the net 6 percent favorable impact from acquisitions,
      divestitures and foreign currency translation, international subsidiary sales
      increased 16 percent compared with 2006. Underlying destination sales grew
      16
      percent in Asia during the year, driven mainly by 11 percent growth in China,
      while sales grew 44 percent in the Middle East, 11 percent in Latin America
      and
      9 percent in Europe.  

ACQUISITIONS
      AND DIVESTITURES      

The
      Company acquired Motorola Inc.   s
      Embedded Computing business (Embedded Computing) and several smaller businesses
      during 2008. Embedded Computing provides communication platforms and enabling
      software used by manufacturers of equipment for telecommunications, medical
      imaging, defense and aerospace, and industrial automation markets. Total cash
      paid for these businesses (net of cash and equivalents acquired of approximately
      $2 million) was approximately $561 million. Annualized sales for acquired
      businesses were $665 million in 2008. 

In
      the
      first quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company divested the Brooks Instrument flow
      meters and flow controls unit (Brooks), which had sales for the first quarter
      of
      2008 of $21 million and net earnings of $1 million. The Company received $100
      million from the sale of Brooks, resulting in a pretax gain of $63 million
      ($42
      million after-tax). The net gain and results of operations for fiscal 2008
      were
      classified as discontinued operations; prior year results of operations were
      inconsequential. In fiscal 2008, the Company received approximately $101 million
      from the divestiture of the European appliance motor and pump business,
      resulting in a loss of $92 million. The European appliance motor and pump
      business had total annual sales of $453 million, $441 million and $399 million
      and net earnings, excluding the loss, of $7 million, $7 million and $6 million
      in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The loss and results of operations were
      classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. 

The
      Company acquired Damcos Holding AS (Damcos) and Stratos International, Inc.
      (Stratos), as well as several smaller businesses during 2007. Damcos supplies
      valve remote control systems and tank monitoring equipment to the marine and
      shipbuilding industries. Stratos is a designer and manufacturer of
      radio-frequency and microwave interconnect products. Total cash paid for these
      businesses (net of cash and equivalents acquired of approximately $40 million,
      and debt assumed of approximately $56 million) was approximately $295 million.
      Annualized sales for acquired businesses were $240 million in
      2007. 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [
        19
        ] 

In
      2007,
      the Company divested two small business units that had total annual sales of
      $113 million and $115 million for fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively.
      These businesses were not reclassified as discontinued operations because of
      immateriality. See Note 3 for additional information regarding acquisitions
      and
      divestitures.  

COST
      OF SALES  

Costs
      of
      sales for fiscal 2008 and 2007 were $15.7 billion and $14.1 billion,
      respectively. Cost of sales as a percent of net sales was 63.2 percent for
      2008,
      compared with 63.6 percent in 2007. Gross profit was $9.1 billion and $8.1
      billion for fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively, resulting in gross profit
      margins of 36.8 percent and 36.4 percent. The increase in the gross profit
      margin primarily reflects leverage on higher sales volume and benefits realized
      from productivity improvements, which were partially offset by negative product
      mix. Higher sales prices, together with the benefits received from commodity
      hedging of approximately $42 million, were more than offset by higher raw
      material and wage costs. The increase in the gross profit amount primarily
      reflects higher sales volume and foreign currency translation, as well as
      acquisitions. 

Costs
      of
      sales for fiscal 2007 and 2006 were $14.1 billion and $12.6 billion,
      respectively. Cost of sales as a percent of net sales was 63.6 percent for
      2007,
      compared with 63.9 percent in 2006. Gross profit was $8.1 billion and $7.1
      billion for fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively, resulting in gross profit
      margins of 36.4 percent and 36.1 percent. The gross profit margin improvement
      was diminished as higher sales prices, together with the benefits received
      from
      commodity hedging of approximately $115 million, were substantially offset
      by
      higher material costs and wages. The increase in the gross profit amount
      primarily reflects higher sales volume, acquisitions, foreign currency
      translation and savings from cost reduction actions.  

SELLING,
      GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES   

Selling,
      general and administrative (SG A) expenses for 2008 were $5.1 billion, or
      20.3 percent of net sales, compared with $4.6 billion, or 20.6 percent of net
      sales for 2007. The increase of approximately $0.5 billion was primarily due
      to
      an increase in variable costs on higher sales volume, acquisitions and foreign
      currency translation, partially offset by a $103 million decrease in incentive
      stock compensation reflecting the overlap of two performance share programs
      in
      the prior year and   the
      decrease in Emerson   s
      stock price in the current year (see Note 14). The reduction in SG A as a
      percent of sales was primarily the result of lower incentive stock compensation,
      leveraging fixed costs on higher sales and benefits realized from cost reduction
      actions, particularly in the Process Management and Network Power
      businesses. 

SG A
      expenses for 2007 were $4.6 billion, or 20.6 percent of net sales, compared
      with
      $4.1 billion, or 20.6 percent of net sales for 2006. The increase of
      approximately $0.5 billion was primarily due to an increase in variable costs
      on
      higher sales volume, acquisitions, foreign currency translation and a $104
      million increase in incentive stock compensation reflecting the increase in
      Emerson   s
      stock price and the overlap of two performance share programs (see Note
      14).  

OTHER
      DEDUCTIONS, NET    

Other
      deductions, net were $303 million in 2008, a $128 million increase from the
      $175
      million in 2007. The increase reflects numerous items including a $31 million
      impairment charge related to the North American appliance control business
      due
      to a slow economic environment for consumer appliance and residential
      end-markets and a major customer   s
      strategy to diversify suppliers and transition to and internalize the production
      of electronic controls. As a result, the operations of this business will be
      restructured and integrated into the North American appliance motors business
      to
      leverage the combined cost structure and improve profitability on the lower
      volume, including elimination of redundant manufacturing capacity and a
      substantial reduction in overhead. 

Higher
      rationalization costs of $17 million in 2008 also contributed to the increase
      in
      other deductions, net. Rationalization expense, including amounts reported
      in
      discontinued operations, was $98 million, $83 million and $84 million in 2008,
      2007 and 2006, respectively, or a total of $265 million over the three-year
      period. The Company continuously makes investments in the rationalization of
      operations to improve operational efficiency and remain competitive on a global
      basis, and to position the Company for difficult economic conditions that may
      arise. These actions include relocating facilities to best cost locations and
      geographic expansion to serve local markets. During the past three years,
      approximately 45 production, warehouse or office facilities have been exited
      and
      more than 6,000 positions have been eliminated. Based on the current economic
      conditions, the Company expects rationalization expense, including start-up
      and
      moving, severance and shutdown costs, to be approximately $125 million to $150
      million in 2009. 

The
      increase in other deductions, net in 2008 also includes higher amortization
      of
      intangibles related to acquisitions of $18 million, a $12 million charge for
      in-process research and development in connection with the acquisition of
      Embedded Computing, $12 million of additional losses on foreign exchange
      transactions compared with 2007, lower gains of $10 million and other items.
      Gains in 2008 included the following items. The Company received $54 million
      and
      recognized a gain of $39 million ($20 million after-tax) on the sale of an
      equity investment in Industrial Motion Control Holdings, LLC, a manufacturer
      of
      motion control components for automation equipment. The Company also recorded
      a
      gain of $18 million related to the sale of a facility. 

[ 20
        ]   Emerson
        2008 

Other
      deductions, net were $175 million in 2007, a $2 million increase from the $173
      million in 2006. Gains in 2007 included approximately $32 million related to
      the
      sale of the Company   s
      remaining shares in MKS Instruments, Inc. and approximately $24 million related
      to a payment received under the U.S. Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act
      (Offset Act). Ongoing costs for the rationalization of operations were $75
      million in 2007, compared with $80 million in 2006. The higher gains and lower
      other costs were more than offset by higher amortization of intangibles related
      to acquisitions. See Notes 4 and 5 for further details regarding other
      deductions, net and rationalization costs.  

INTEREST
      EXPENSE, NET  

Interest
        expense, net was $188 million, $228 million and $207 million in 2008, 2007
        and
        2006, respectively. The decrease of $40 million from 2007 to 2008 was primarily
        due to lower interest rates and lower average borrowings.  

INCOME
      TAXES    

Income
      taxes were $1,137 million, $964 million and $834 million for 2008, 2007 and
      2006, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 32 percent, 31 percent
      and 31 percent.  

EARNINGS
      FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS  

Earnings
      from continuing operations were $2.5 billion and earnings from continuing
      operations per share were $3.11 for 2008, increases of 15 percent and 17
      percent, respectively, compared with $2.1 billion and $2.65 for 2007. These
      earnings results reflect increases in four of the five business segments,
      including $240 million in Process Management, $149 million in Network Power
      and
      $62 million in Industrial Automation. The higher earnings also reflect leverage
      from higher sales, benefits realized from cost containment, and higher sales
      prices, partially offset by higher raw material and wage costs. See Business
      Segments discussion that follows for additional information. 

Earnings
      from continuing operations were $2.1 billion and earnings from continuing
      operations per share were $2.65 for 2007, increases of 16 percent and 19
      percent, respectively, compared with $1.8 billion and $2.23 for   2006.
      These earnings results reflect increases in all five business segments,
      including $188 million in Process Management, $161 million in Network Power
      and
      $96 million in Industrial Automation. The higher earnings also reflect leverage
      from higher sales, benefits realized from cost containment, and higher sales
      prices, partially offset by higher raw material and wage costs.  

DISCONTINUED
      OPERATIONS  

The
      loss
      from discontinued operations of $42 million, or $0.05 per share, in fiscal
      2008
      included a gain of $42 million related to the divestiture of the Brooks unit,
      a
      loss of $92 million related to the divestiture of the European appliance motor
      and pump business, as well as $8 million of operating results related to these
      divestitures. Discontinued operations for fiscal 2007 and 2006 related to the
      European appliance motor and pump business were $7 million, or $0.01 per share,
      and $6 million, or $0.01 per share, respectively. See previous discussion under
      Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 3 for additional information regarding
      discontinued operations.  

NET
      EARNINGS, RETURN ON EQUITY AND RETURN ON TOTAL
      CAPITAL    

Net
      earnings were a record $2.4 billion and earnings per share were a record $3.06
      per share for 2008, increases of 13 percent and 15 percent, respectively,
      compared with net earnings and earnings per share of $2.1 billion and $2.66,
      respectively, in 2007. Net earnings as a percent of net sales were 9.7 percent
      in 2008 and 2007. Net earnings in 2008 included a net loss from discontinued
      operations of $42 million, or $0.05 per share, related to the divestitures
      of
      the Brooks unit and the European appliance motor and pump business. The 15
      percent increase in earnings per share also reflects the purchase of treasury
      shares. Return on stockholders   
      equity (net earnings divided by average stockholders   
      equity) reached 27.0 percent in 2008 compared with 25.2 percent in 2007. The
      Company achieved return on total capital of 21.8 percent in 2008 compared with
      20.1 percent in 2007 (net earnings excluding interest income and expense, net
      of
      taxes, divided by average stockholders   
      equity plus short- and long-term debt less cash and short-term
      investments). 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [ 21
        ] 

Net
      earnings were $2.1 billion and earnings per share were $2.66 for 2007, increases
      of 16 percent and 19 percent, respectively, compared with net earnings and
      earnings per share of $1.8 billion and $2.24, respectively, in 2006. Net
      earnings as a percent of net sales were 9.7 percent in 2007 compared with 9.4
      percent in 2006. The 19 percent increase in earnings per share also reflects
      the
      purchase of treasury shares. Return on stockholders   
      equity reached 25.2 percent in 2007 compared with 23.7 percent in 2006. The
      Company achieved return on total capital of 20.1 percent in 2007 compared with
      18.4 percent in 2006. The Company consummated a two-for-one stock split in
      December 2006. All share and per share data have been restated to reflect this
      split.  

Business
      Segments  

PROCESS
      MANAGEMENT    

2008
      vs. 2007 -    The
      Process Management segment sales were $6.7 billion in 2008, an increase of
      $953
      million, or 17 percent, over 2007, reflecting higher volume and foreign currency
      translation. These results reflect the Company   s
      continued investment in next-generation technologies and expanding the global
      reach of the solutions and services businesses, as well as the strong worldwide
      growth in energy and power markets. All of the businesses reported higher sales,
      with sales particularly strong for the valves, measurement and systems
      businesses. Underlying sales increased approximately 14 percent, reflecting
      13
      percent from volume, which includes an estimated 3 percent from penetration
      gains, and approximately 1 percent from higher sales prices. Foreign currency
      translation had a 4 percent ($225 million) favorable impact and the Brooks
      divestiture, net of acquisitions, had an unfavorable impact of 1 percent ($35
      million). The underlying sales increase reflects growth in all geographic
      regions, Asia (21 percent), the United States (12 percent), Europe (7 percent),
      Latin America (22 percent), Canada (13 percent) and Middle East/Africa (14
      percent), compared with the prior year. Earnings (defined as earnings before
      interest and taxes for the business segments discussion) increased 23 percent
      to
      $1,306 million from $1,066 million in the prior year, reflecting the higher
      sales volume, savings from cost reductions and material containment and the
      benefit from foreign currency translation. The margin increase primarily
      reflects leverage on the higher volume, increase in sales prices and cost
      containment actions, which were partially offset by higher wage costs,
      unfavorable product mix and strategic investments to support the growth of
      these
      businesses. 

2007
      vs. 2006 -    The
      Process Management segment sales were $5.7 billion in 2007, an increase of
      $824
      million, or 17 percent, over 2006, reflecting higher volume and acquisitions.
      Nearly all of the businesses reported higher sales, with sales and earnings
      particularly strong for the measurement, systems and valves businesses,
      reflecting very strong worldwide growth in oil and gas and power projects,
      and
      expansion in the Middle East. Underlying sales increased 11 percent, reflecting
      approximately more than 10 percent from volume, which includes approximately
      3
      percent from penetrating global markets, and approximately less than 1 percent
      from slightly higher sales prices. Foreign currency translation had a 4 percent
      ($169 million) favorable impact and the Bristol and Damcos acquisitions
      contributed 2 percent ($120 million). The underlying sales increase reflects
      growth in nearly all of the major geographic regions, including the United
      States (10 percent), Asia (12 percent), Europe (6 percent) and Latin America
      (6
      percent), as well as the Middle East (63 percent), compared with the prior
      year.
      Earnings increased 21 percent to $1,066 million from $878 million in the prior
      year, primarily reflecting the higher sales volume and prices, as well as
      acquisitions. The margin increase reflects leverage on the higher sales and
      cost
      containment actions, which were partially offset by higher wages and an $11
      million adverse commercial litigation judgment.  

INDUSTRIAL
      AUTOMATION    

[ 22
        ]   Emerson
        2008 

2008
      vs. 2007 -    The
      Industrial Automation segment increased sales by 14 percent to $4.9 billion
      in
      2008, compared with $4.3 billion in 2007. Sales growth was strong across the
      businesses with increased global demand for capital goods and foreign currency
      contributing to the increase. Sales grew in all of the businesses and in nearly
      all of the geographic regions, reflecting the strength in the power generating
      alternator, fluid automation, electronic drives, electrical distribution and
      materials joining businesses. Underlying sales growth was 7 percent and
      favorable foreign currency transla  tion
      contributed 7 percent ($278 million). Underlying sales grew 8 percent in the
      United States and 6 percent internationally. The U.S. growth particularly
      reflects the alternator business, which was driven by increased demand for
      backup generators. The international sales growth primarily reflects increases
      in Europe (4 percent) and Asia (17 percent). The underlying growth reflects
      6
      percent from volume, as well as an approximate 1 percent positive impact from
      price. Earnings increased 9 percent to $727 million for 2008, compared with
      $665
      million in 2007, reflecting higher sales volume and the benefit from foreign
      currency translation. The margin decrease reflects a lower payment received
      by
      the power transmission business from dumping duties related to the Offset Act.
      A
      $24 million payment was received in fiscal 2007, while only a $3 million payment
      was received in fiscal 2008. The Company does not expect to receive any
      significant payments in the future. The margin was positively impacted by
      leverage on the higher sales volume and benefits from prior cost reductions
      efforts. Higher sales prices were substantially offset by higher material and
      wage costs, as well as unfavorable product mix, which negatively impacted the
      margin. 

2007
      vs. 2006 -    The
      Industrial Automation segment increased sales by 13 percent to $4.3 billion
      in
      2007, compared with $3.8 billion in 2006. Nearly all of the businesses reported
      higher sales in 2007, with particular strength in the power generating
      alternator, the electrical distribution and the electronic drives businesses,
      as
      the favorable economic environment for capital goods continued. The very strong
      growth in the U.S. and European alternator businesses was driven by increased
      demand for backup generators and alternative power sources, such as wind
      turbines. The underlying sales growth of 10 percent and the favorable impact
      from foreign currency translation of 4 percent ($143 million) was slightly
      offset by an unfavorable impact of 1 percent from divestitures, net of
      acquisitions. Underlying sales grew 13 percent internationally and 5 percent
      in
      the United States. The international sales growth primarily reflects increases
      in Europe (12 percent) and Asia (19 percent). The underlying growth reflects
      approximately 7 percent from volume, including slight penetration gains, caused
      by increased global industrial demand and an approximate 3 percent positive
      impact from price. Earnings increased 17 percent to $665 million for 2007,
      compared with $569 million in 2006, reflecting leverage from higher sales volume
      and benefits from cost containment, as nearly all of the businesses reported
      higher earnings. The margin increase was primarily due to leverage on higher
      sales volume. The earnings increase was also aided by an approximate $24 million
      payment received by the power transmission business from dumping duties related
      to the Offset Act in 2007, compared with an $18 million payment received in
      2006. Sales price increases were offset by higher material and wage costs,
      as
      well as unfavorable product mix. 

NETWORK
      POWER    

2008
      vs. 2007 -    Sales
      in
      the Network Power segment increased 23 percent to $6.3 billion in 2008 compared
      with $5.2 billion in 2007. The increase in sales reflects continued very strong
      growth in the precision cooling, global services, uninterruptible power supply
      and inbound power businesses, as well as growth in the power systems businesses.
      Underlying sales grew 11 percent, while the Embedded Computing and Stratos
      acquisitions contributed approximately 9 percent ($449 million) and favorable
      foreign currency translation had a 3 percent ($156 million) favorable impact.
      The underlying sales increase of 11 percent reflects higher volume, which
      includes an approximate 4 percent impact from penetration gains. Geographically,
      underlying sales reflect a 17 percent increase in Asia, an 8 percent increase
      in
      the United States, a 14 percent increase in Latin America, a 55 percent increase
      in Middle East/Africa and a 2 percent increase in Europe. The U.S. growth
      reflects continued demand for data room construction and non-residential
      computer equipment as well as in the telecommunications power market.
      Internationally, the Company continues to penetrate the Chinese, Indian and
      other Asian markets. Earnings increased 23 percent, or $149 million, to $794
      million, compared with $645 million in 2007, primarily because of the higher
      sales volume and savings from cost reduction actions. The margin increase
      reflects these savings and leverage on the higher volume, partially offset
      by a
      nearly 1 percentage point dilution from the Embedded Computing acquisition
      and
      higher wage costs. 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [ 23
        ] 

2007
      vs. 2006 -    Sales
      in
      the Network Power segment increased 18 percent to $5.2 billion in 2007 compared
      with $4.4 billion in 2006. The sales increase was driven by continued strong
      demand in the uninterruptible power supply, precision cooling and inbound power
      businesses and the full year impact of the Artesyn and Kn   rr
      acquisitions. Underlying sales grew 9 percent, while acquisitions, net of
      divestitures, contributed approximately 7 percent ($332 million) and favorable
      foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($98 million) favorable impact.
      The
      underlying sales increase of 9 percent reflects an estimated 9 percent gain
      from
      higher volume, which includes 3 percent from penetration gains, partially offset
      by a slight decline in sales prices. Geographically, underlying sales reflect
      a
      20 percent increase in Asia, a 7 percent increase in the United States, while
      sales in Europe were flat compared with the prior year. The Company   s
      market penetration gains in China and other Asian markets continued. The U.S.
      growth reflects strong demand for data room and non-residential computer
      equipment. Earnings increased 33 percent, or $161 million, to $645 million,
      compared with $484 million in 2006, primarily because of the Artesyn and Kn rr
      acquisitions and the higher sales volume. The margin increase reflects leverage
      on higher sales volume, savings from integrating acquisitions and improvement
      over the prior year in the DC power business. These benefits were partially
      offset by higher material and wage costs.  

CLIMATE
      TECHNOLOGIES    

2008
      vs. 2007 -    The
      Climate Technologies segment reported sales of $3.8 billion for 2008,
      representing a 6 percent increase over 2007. Underlying sales increased
      approximately 3 percent and foreign currency translation had a 3 percent ($110
      million) favorable impact. The underlying sales increase of 3 percent reflects
      an approximate 2 percent positive contribution from sales price increases and
      an
      approximate 1 percent gain from higher volume, which includes a 2 percent impact
      from penetration gains. The underlying sales increase was led by the
      water-heater controls business, which primarily reflects penetration in the
      U.S.
      water-heater market. The compressors business grew modestly, primarily in the
      refrigeration and the U.S. and Asian air-conditioning markets; while the
      temperature sensors and flow controls businesses declined. The growth in
      refrigeration was driven by the transport container market. The underlying
      sales
      increase reflects a 2 percent increase in the United States and 4 percent growth
      internationally. Asia grew 9 percent and Europe declined 6 percent. Earnings
      increased 2 percent to $551 million in 2008 compared with $538 million in 2007.
      The margin was diluted as higher sales prices were more than offset by material
      inflation and higher restructuring costs of $13 million. The Company continued
      its capacity expansion begun in 2006 in Mexico where the next generation scroll
      compressor design and hermetic motors for the North American market will be
      produced. 

2007
      vs. 2006 -    The
      Climate Technologies segment reported sales of $3.6 billion for 2007,
      representing a 6 percent improvement over 2006. Underlying sales increased
      approximately 1 percent, while acquisitions contributed 3 percent ($86 million)
      and foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($53 million) favorable impact.
      Lower sales volume of approximately less than 2 percent, which includes a
      positive 2 percent from penetration gains, was more than offset by an
      approximate 3   percent
      positive impact from sales price increases. The underlying sales growth reflects
      a 16 percent increase in international sales, led by growth in Europe (18
      percent) and Asia (17 percent). This growth was partially offset by a 7 percent
      decline in U.S. sales, which is primarily attributable to difficult comparisons
      to a very strong prior year for the air-conditioning compressor business, as
      well as an impact from the downturn in the U.S. housing market. The volume
      decline in the U.S. air-conditioning business was only partially offset by
      a
      modest increase in U.S. refrigeration sales. The very strong growth in Europe
      and Asia reflects overall favorable market conditions, penetration in the
      European heat pump market, and penetration gains in Asia, particularly in
      digital scroll compressor products. Earnings increased 3 percent to $538 million
      in 2007 compared with $523 million in 2006, primarily because of savings from
      cost reduction efforts and lower restructuring costs of $5 million. The profit
      margin declined as the result of deleverage on the lower volume and an
      acquisition, while higher sales prices were offset by higher material and wage
      costs.  

APPLIANCE
      AND TOOLS    

[
        24 ]
  Emerson
        2008 

2008
      vs. 2007 -    Sales
      in
      the Appliance and Tools segment were $3.9 billion in 2008, a 4 percent decrease
      from 2007. The results of 2008 were mixed reflecting the different sectors
      served by these businesses. The professional tools, commercial storage and
      hermetic motor businesses showed strong increases, while the residential
      storage, appliance components, and appliance and   commercial
      motors businesses declined. The strong growth in the professional tools business
      was driven by U.S. non-residential and Latin American markets. The declines
      in
      the residential storage and appliance-related businesses primarily reflect
      the
      continued and ongoing downturn in the U.S. consumer appliance and residential
      end-markets. The U.S. markets represent more than 80 percent of sales for this
      segment. Underlying sales in the United States were down 6 percent from the
      prior year, while international underlying sales increased 13 percent in total.
      The sales decrease reflects a 3 percent decline in underlying sales, an
      unfavorable impact from divestitures of 2 percent ($65 million) and a favorable
      impact from foreign currency translation of 1 percent ($40 million). The
      underlying sales decrease of 3 percent reflects an estimated 7 percent decline
      in volume and an approximate 4 percent positive impact from higher sales prices.
      Earnings for 2008 were $527 million, a 7 percent decrease from 2007. Earnings
      decreased because of deleverage on the lower sales volume and an impairment
      charge of $31 million in the appliance control business (see Note 4), which
      was
      partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions. The increase in sales
      prices was substantially offset by higher material (copper and other
      commodities) and wage costs. The 2007 sale of the consumer hand tools product
      line favorably impacted the margin. 

2007
      vs. 2006 -    Sales
      in
      the Appliance and Tools segment were $4.0 billion in 2007, a 2 percent increase
      from 2006. The sales increase reflects a 1 percent increase in underlying sales
      and a contribution from acquisitions of 1 percent ($37 million). The underlying
      sales increase of 1 percent reflects an estimated 4 percent decline in volume,
      which includes a positive 1 percent impact from penetration gains, and an
      approximate 5 percent positive impact from higher sales prices. The results
      were
      mixed across the businesses for this segment. The tools and storage businesses
      showed moderate growth, while sales increased slightly in the motors businesses
      when compared with 2006. These increases were partially offset by declines
      in
      the appliance controls businesses. The growth in the tools businesses was driven
      by the professional tools and disposer businesses, reflecting the success of
      new
      product launches. The volume declines in the appliance controls and certain
      motors and storage businesses were primarily caused by the downturn in U.S.
      residential construction. International underlying sales increased 13 percent
      in
      total, while underlying sales in the United States were down 1 percent from
      the
      prior year. Earnings for 2007 were $564 million, a 5 percent increase from
      2006.
      The earnings increases in tools and motor businesses were partially offset
      by
      declines in appliance component and certain storage businesses. Overall, the
      slight margin improvement primarily reflects the benefits from prior year
      actions, as well as lower restructuring inefficiencies and costs compared with
      the prior year. Sales price increases were offset by higher material and wage
      costs, as well as deleverage from the lower volume. 

Financial
      Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity  

The
      Company continues to generate substantial cash from operations and is in a
      strong financial position with total assets of $21 billion and stockholders   
      equity of $9 billion, and has the resources available for reinvestment in
      existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing the capital structure
      on a short- and long-term basis.  

CASH
      FLOW    

Emerson
      generated operating cash flow of $3.3 billion in 2008, a 9 percent increase
      from
      2007, driven by higher net earnings. Cash flow in 2008 also reflects continued
      improvements in operating working capital management. Operating cash flow was
      $3.0 billion in 2007, a 20 percent increase from 2006, driven by higher net
      earnings. At September 30, 2008, operating working capital as a percent of
      sales
      was 8.9 percent, compared with 8.5 percent and 10.1 percent in 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. Operating cash flow also reflects pension contributions of $135
      million, $136 million and $124 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [ 25
        ] 

Free
      cash
      flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) was $2.6 billion in 2008,
      compared with $2.3 billion   and
      $1.9
      billion in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The 10 percent increase in free cash
      flow in 2008 compared with 2007 and the 22 percent increase in 2007 compared
      with 2006 reflect the increases in operating cash flow, partially offset by
      higher capital spending. Capital expenditures were $714 million, $681 million
      and $601 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in capital
      expenditures during 2008 compared with the prior year was primarily due to
      capacity expansion in the Process Management and Industrial Automation segments
      and construction of a corporate technology facility, while the increase in
      2007
      compared with 2006 included capacity expansion in the Process Management and
      Climate Technologies segments. In 2009, the Company is targeting capital
      spending of approximately 3 percent of net sales. Cash paid in connection with
      Emerson   s
      acquisitions was $561 million, $295 million   and
      $752
      million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Dividends
      were $940 million ($1.20 per share, up 14 percent) in 2008, compared with $837
      million ($1.05 per share) in 2007, and $730 million ($0.89 per share) in 2006.
      In November 2008, the Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash
      dividend 10 percent to an annualized rate of $1.32 per share. In 2008, the
      Board
      of Directors approved a new program for the repurchase of up to 80 million
      additional shares. In 2008, 22,404,000 shares were repurchased under the fiscal
      2002 and 2008 Board of Directors   
      authorizations; in 2007, 18,877,000 shares were repurchased under the 2002
      authorization, and in 2006, 21,451,000 shares were repurchased under the 2002
      authorization; 72.4 million shares remain available for repurchase under the
      2008 authorization and none remain available under the 2002 authorization.
      Purchases of treasury stock totaled $1,128 million, $849 million and $871
      million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

LEVERAGE/CAPITALIZATON  

Total
      debt was $4.5 billion, $3.8 billion and $4.0 billion for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. During 2008, the Company issued $400 million of 5.250% notes
      due
      October 2018, under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities
      and
      Exchange Commission and $250 million of 5 % notes matured. During 2007, the
      Company issued $250 million of 5.125%, ten-year notes due December 2016 and
      $250
      million of 5.375%, ten-year notes due October 2017. During 2006, $250 million
      of
      6.3% notes matured. The total debt-to-capital ratio was 33.1 percent at year-end
      2008, compared with 30.1 percent for 2007 and 33.1 percent for 2006. At
      September 30, 2008, net debt (total debt less cash and equivalents and
      short-term investments) was 22.7 percent of net capital, compared with 23.6
      percent of net capital in 2007 and 28.1 percent of net capital in 2006. The
      operating cash flow-to-debt ratio was 72.9 percent, 79.9 percent and 62.4
      percent in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company   s
      interest coverage ratio (earnings before income taxes and interest expense,
      divided by interest expense) was 15.7 times in 2008, compared with 12.9 times
      in
      2007 and 2006. The increase in the interest coverage ratio from 2007 to 2008
      reflects higher earnings and lower interest rates. See Notes 3, 8 and 9 for
      additional information. The Company   s
      strong financial position supports long-term debt ratings of A2 by Moody   s
      Investors Service and A by Standard and Poor   s. 

At
      year-end 2008, the Company maintained, but has not drawn upon, a five-year
      revolving credit facility effective until April 2011 amounting to $2.8 billion
      to support short-term borrowings. The credit facility does not contain any
      financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change in
      credit ratings or a material adverse change. In addition, as of September 30,
      2008, the Company could issue up to $1.35 billion in debt securities, preferred
      stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts and share purchase
      units
      under the shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission. The Company intends to file a new shelf registration statement
      prior
      to the expiration of the existing registration in December 2008. 

The
      credit markets, including the commercial paper sector in the United States,
      have
      recently experienced adverse conditions. Continuing volatility in the capital
      markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other
      debt instruments, or affect the Company   s
      ability to access those markets. Notwithstanding these adverse market
      conditions, the Company has been able to issue commercial paper and currently
      believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet the Company   s
      needs in the foreseeable future through existing resources, ongoing operations
      and commercial paper (or backup credit lines). However, the Company could be
      adversely affected if the credit market conditions deteriorate further or
      continue for an extended period of time and customers, suppliers and financial
      institutions are unable to meet their commitments to the Company. 

[ 26
        ]   Emerson
        2008 

CONTRACTUAL
        OBLIGATIONS  

At
      September 30, 2008, the Company   s
      contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as
      follows:  

Purchase
      obligations consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course
      of business to meet operational requirements. The above table does not include
      $2.1 billion of other noncurrent liabilities recorded in the balance sheet,
      as
      summarized in Note 17, which consist primarily of deferred income tax (including
      unrecognized tax benefits) and retirement and postretirement plan liabilities,
      because it is not certain when these liabilities will become due. See Notes
      10,
      11 and 13 for additional information.  

FINANCIAL
      INSTRUMENTS    

The
      Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, copper
      and other commodity prices and European and other foreign currency exchange
      rates, and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including
      forwards, swaps and purchased options, to manage these risks. The Company does
      not hold derivatives for trading purposes. The value of market risk sensitive
      derivative and other financial instruments is subject to change as a result
      of
      movements in market rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique
      used
      to evaluate these impacts. Based on a hypothetical ten-percent increase in
      interest rates, ten-percent decrease in commodity prices or ten-percent
      weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses in
      future earnings, fair value and cash flows are immaterial. This method has
      limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings
      through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results and lower commodity
      prices would benefit future earnings through lower cost of sales. See Notes
      1,
      7, 8 and 9.  

Critical
      Accounting Policies  

Preparation
      of the Company   s
      financial statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and
      estimates regarding uncertainties that affect the reported amounts of assets,
      liabilities, stockholders   
      equity, revenues and expenses. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation
      of
      the Consolidated Financial Statements. The most significant areas involving
      management judgments and estimates are described in the following paragraphs.
      Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management   s
      estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

REVENUE
      RECOGNITION  

The
      Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured
      products and records the sale when products are shipped and title passes to
      the
      customer and collection is reasonably assured. In certain instances, revenue
      is
      recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, when services are rendered,
      or in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position No. 97-2,    Software
      Revenue Recognition.   
      Sales sometimes include multiple items including services such as installation.
      In such instances, revenue assigned to each item is based on that item   s
      objectively determined fair value, and revenue is recognized individually for
      delivered items only if the delivered items have value to the customer on a
      standalone basis and performance of the undelivered items is probable and
      substantially in the Company   s
      control, or the undelivered items are inconsequential or perfunctory. Management
      believes that all relevant criteria and conditions are considered when
      recognizing sales. 

INVENTORIES  

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory values
      are
      based upon standard costs that approximate average costs, while the remainder
      are principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Standard costs are
      revised at the beginning of each fiscal year. The effects of resetting standards
      and operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between
      inventories and cost of sales. The Company   s
      divisions regularly review inventory for obsolescence,   make
      appropriate provisions and dispose of obsolete inventory on an ongoing basis.
      Various factors are considered in making this determination, including recent
      sales history and predicted trends, industry market conditions and general
      economic conditions. 

A
          Powerful Force for Innovation   [
          27
          ] 

LONG-LIVED
      ASSETS  

Long-lived
      assets, which include primarily goodwill and property, plant and equipment,
      are
      reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances
      indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable, as well as
      annually for goodwill. If the Company determines that the carrying value of
      the
      long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a permanent impairment charge is
      recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset
      exceeds its fair value. Fair value is generally measured based on a discounted
      cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be
      commensurate with the risk inherent in the Company   s
      current business model. The estimates of cash flows and discount rate are
      subject to change depending on the economic environment, including such factors
      as interest rates, expected market returns and volatility of markets served,
      particularly if the current downturn continues for an extended period of time.
      Management believes that the estimates of future cash flows and fair value
      are
      reasonable; however, changes in estimates could materially affect the
      evaluations. The slowdown in consumer appliance and residential end-markets
      over
      the past two years, along with strategic decisions in connection with two
      businesses, resulted in a $31 million impairment in the North American appliance
      control business and a $92 million loss on the divestiture of the European
      appliance motor and pump business. See Notes 1, 3, 4 and 6. 

RETIREMENT
        PLANS  

The
      Company continues to focus on a prudent long-term investment strategy. Defined
      benefit plan expense and obligations are dependent on assumptions used in
      calculating such amounts. These assumptions include discount rate, rate of
      compensation increases and expected return on plan assets. In accordance with
      U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from
      the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods. While
      management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences
      in
      actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect the Company   s
      retirement plan obligations and future expense. The discount rate for the U.S.
      retirement plans was 6.50 percent as of June 30, 2008. As of June 30, 2008,
      the
      U.S. retirement plans were overfunded by $331 million and non-U.S. plans were
      underfunded by $224 million. Unrecognized losses, which will be recognized
      in
      future years, were $804 million as of June 30, 2008. Subsequent to the June
      30
      measurement date, asset values have declined as a result of recent volatility
      in
      the capital markets, while pension liabilities have decreased with higher
      interest rates. The Company estimates that retirement plans in total were
      underfunded by approximately $400 million as of October 31, 2008. The Company
      contributed $135 million to defined benefit plans in 2008 and expects to
      contribute approximately $200 million in 2009. Defined benefit pension plan
      expense is expected to decline slightly in 2009. 

Effective
      September 30, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure
      provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,    Employers   
      Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   
      (FAS 158). This statement requires employers to recognize the funded status
      of
      defined benefit plans and other postretirement plans in the balance sheet and
      to
      recognize changes in the funded status through comprehensive income in the
      year
      in which they occur. The incremental effect of adopting FAS 158 resulted in
      a
      pretax charge to accumulated other comprehensive income of $522 million ($329
      million after-tax). Also see Notes 10 and 11 for additional disclosures.
      Effective for fiscal year 2009, FAS 158 requires plan assets and liabilities
      to
      be measured as of year-end, rather than the June 30 measurement date that the
      Company presently uses. 

INCOME
        TAXES  

Income
      tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management   s
      assessment of actual future taxes to be paid on items reflected in the financial
      statements. Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously
      filed
      tax returns still under examination and positions expected to be taken in future
      returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise because of differences
      between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
      and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax
      credit carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured using enacted tax
      rates
      in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be
      recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of
      a
      change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment
      date. Generally, no provision is made for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed
      earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries. These earnings are permanently invested
      or
      otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international operations.
      Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed
      earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Note 13. 

Effective
      October 1, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions
      of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,    Accounting
      for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement 109   
      (FIN 48). FIN 48   addresses
      the accounting for uncertain tax positions that a company has taken or expects
      to take on a tax return. As of October 1, 2007, the Company had total
      unrecognized tax benefits of $149 million before recoverability of
      cross-jurisdictional tax credits (U.S., state and non-U.S.) and temporary
      differences, and including amounts related to acquisitions that would reduce
      goodwill. If none of these liabilities is ultimately paid, the tax provision
      and
      tax rate would be favorably impacted by $90 million. As a result of adoption,
      the Company recorded a charge of $6 million to beginning retained earnings.
      See
      Note 13 for additional disclosures regarding the adoption. 

[28
        ]
  Emerson
        2008 

NEW
      ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

In
      September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 157,    Fair
      Value Measurements   
      (FAS 157). FAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a formal framework for
      measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
      The
      Company believes FAS 157, which is required to be adopted in the first quarter
      of fiscal 2009, will not have a material impact on the financial
      statements. 

In
      March
      2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 161,    Disclosures
      about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   
      (FAS 161). FAS 161 requires additional derivative disclosures, including
      objectives and strategies for using derivatives, fair value amounts of and
      gains
      and losses on derivative instruments, and credit-risk-related contingent
      features in derivative agreements. The Company believes FAS 161, which is
      effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods
      beginning after November 15, 2008, will not have a material impact on the
      financial statements. 

In
      December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R),    Business
      Combinations   
      (FAS 141(R)). FAS 141(R) requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed to
      be
      measured at fair value as of the acquisition date, acquisition related costs
      incurred prior to the acquisition to be expensed and contractual contingencies
      to be recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date. FAS 141(R) is
      effective for acquisitions completed after   October
      1, 2009. 

In
      December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 160,    Noncontrolling
      Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements   an amendment of ARB No. 51   
      (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires an entity to separately disclose non-controlling
      interests as a separate component of equity in the balance sheet and clearly
      identify on the face of the income statement net income related to
      non-controlling interests. FAS 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning
      after
      December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of FAS 160 to have
      a
      material impact on the financial statements. 

In
      June
      2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Staff Position No.
      EITF 03-6-1,    Determining
      Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are
      Participating Securities   
      (FSP EITF 03-6-1). FSP EITF 03-6-1 clarifies whether instruments granted in
      share-based payment transactions should be included in the computation of EPS
      using the two-class method prior to vesting. The Company is in the process
      of
      analyzing the impact of FSP EITF 03-6-1, which is effective for financial
      statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The
      Company does not expect the adoption of FSP EITF 06-3-1 to have a material
      impact on the financial statements. 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [ 29
        ] 

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS  

EMERSON
      ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES  

       Years
      ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share
      amounts   

See
          accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
          Statements.  

[
        30 ]   Emerson
        2008 

CONSOLIDATED
      BALANCE SHEETS  

EMERSON
      ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES  

       September
      30 | Dollars in millions, except per share amounts  

See
          accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
          Statements.  

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [ 31
        ] 

[ 32
        ]   Emerson
        2008 

CONSOLIDATED
      STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS   
      EQUITY  

EMERSON
      ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES  

       Years
      ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share
      amounts  

See
          accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
          Statements.  

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation   [ 33
        ]  

CONSOLIDATED
        STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

EMERSON
      ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES  

       Years
      ended September 30 | Dollars in millions  

See
              accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
              Statements.  

[ 34
        ]   Emerson
        2008 

NOTES
          TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

EMERSON
      ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES  

       Years
      ended September 30 | Dollars in millions, except per share
      amount    s  

(1)
      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  

PRINCIPLES
      OF CONSOLIDATION  

The
      consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its
      controlled affiliates. Intercompany transactions, profits and balances are
      eliminated in consolidation. Other investments of 20 percent to 50 percent
      are
      accounted for by the equity method. Investments in nonpublicly-traded companies
      of less than 20 percent are carried at cost. Investments in publicly-traded
      companies of less than 20 percent are carried at fair value, with changes in
      fair value reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. 

FOREIGN
        CURRENCY TRANSLATION  

The
      functional currency of a vast majority of the Company   s
      non-U.S. subsidiaries is the local currency. Adjustments resulting from the
      translation of financial statements are reflected in accumulated other
      comprehensive income. 

CASH
      EQUIVALENTS  

Cash
      equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of
      three months or less. 

INVENTORIES  

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory values
      are
      based upon standard costs that approximate average costs, while the remainder
      are principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Standard costs are
      revised at the beginning of each fiscal year. The effects of resetting standards
      and operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between
      inventories and cost of sales. 

PROPERTY,
        PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  

The
      Company records investments in land, buildings, and machinery and equipment
      at
      cost. Depreciation is computed principally using the straight-line method over
      estimated service lives. Service lives for principal assets are 30 to 40 years
      for buildings and 8 to 12 years for machinery and equipment. Long-lived assets
      are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances
      indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Impairment
      losses are recognized based on fair value if expected future undiscounted cash
      flows of the related assets are less than their carrying values. 

GOODWILL
      AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

Assets
      and liabilities acquired in business combinations are accounted for using the
      purchase method and recorded at their respective fair values. Substantially
      all
      goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that acquires a business. A reporting
      unit is an operating segment as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting
      Standards No. 131,    Disclosures
      about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,   
      or a business one level below an operating segment if discrete financial
      information is prepared and regularly reviewed by the segment manager. The
      Company conducts a formal impairment test of goodwill on an annual basis and
      between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would
      more
      likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying
      value. Under the impairment test, if a reporting unit   s
      carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, a goodwill impairment is
      recognized to the extent that the reporting unit   s
      carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill.
      Fair
      values of reporting units are estimated using discounted cash flows and market
      multiples. 

All
      of
      the Company   s
      intangible assets (other than goodwill) are subject to amortization. Intangibles
      consist of intellectual property (such as patents and trademarks), customer
      relationships and capitalized software and are amortized on a straight-line
      basis. These intangibles are also subject to evaluation for potential impairment
      if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying amount
      may
      not be recoverable. 

WARRANTY  

The
      Company   s
      product warranties vary by each of its product lines and are competitive for
      the
      markets in which it operates. Warranty generally extends for a period of one
      to
      two years from the date of sale or installation. Provisions for warranty are
      determined primarily based on historical warranty cost as a percentage of sales
      or a fixed amount per unit sold based on failure rates, adjusted for specific
      problems that may arise. Product warranty expense is less than 1 percent of
      sales. 

REVENUE
        RECOGNITION  

The
      Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured
      products and records the sale when products are shipped and title passes to
      the
      customer and collection is reasonably assured. In certain instances, revenue
      is
      recognized on the percentage-of-completion method, when services are rendered,
      or in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position No. 97-2,    Software
      Revenue Recognition.   
      Sales sometimes include multiple items including services such as installation.
      In such instances, revenue assigned to each item is based on that item   s
      objectively determined fair value, and revenue is recognized individually for
      delivered items only if the delivered items have value to the customer on a
      standalone basis and performance of the undelivered items is probable and
      substantially in the Company   s
      control, or the undelivered items are inconsequential or perfunctory. Management
      believes that all relevant criteria and conditions are considered when
      recognizing sales. 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation [ 35 ] 

FINANCIAL
      INSTRUMENTS  

All
      derivative instruments are reported on the balance sheet at fair value. The
      accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative instrument depends on
      whether it has been designated and qualifies as a hedge and on the type of
      hedge. For each derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, the
      effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in
      accumulated other comprehensive income until recognized in earnings with the
      underlying hedged item. For each derivative instrument designated as a fair
      value hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting gain or
      loss
      on the hedged item are recognized immediately in earnings. Currency fluctuations
      on non-U.S. dollar obligations that have been designated as hedges on non-U.S.
      net asset exposures are included in accumulated other comprehensive income.
      Regardless of type, a fully effective hedge will result in no net earnings
      impact while the derivative is outstanding. To the extent that any hedge is
      ineffective at offsetting cash flow or fair value changes in the underlying
      hedged item, there could be a net earnings impact. Gains and losses from the
      ineffective portion of any hedge, as well as the gains and losses on derivative
      instruments not designated as a hedge, are recognized in the income statement
      immediately. 

INCOME
      TAXES  

No
      provision has been made for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings
      of
      non-U.S. subsidiaries of approximately $3.6 billion at September 30, 2008.
      These
      earnings are permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for
      continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that
      might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not
      practicable. 

COMPREHENSIVE
      INCOME  

Comprehensive
      income is primarily comprised of net earnings and changes in foreign currency
      translation, pension and postretirement adjustments and changes in cash flow
      hedges. Accumulated other comprehensive income, after-tax, consists of foreign
      currency translation credits of $698 and $728, pension and postretirement
      charges of $528 and $384, and cash flow hedges and other charges of $29 and
      credits of $38 at September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

FINANCIAL
      STATEMENT PRESENTATION  

The
      preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally
      accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
      assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results
      could differ from those estimates. 

On
      December 11, 2006, a two-for-one split of the Company   s
      common stock was effected in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend (shares
      began trading on a post-split basis on December 12, 2006). This stock split
      resulted in the issuance of approximately 476.7 million additional shares of
      common stock and was accounted for by the transfer of approximately $161 from
      additional paid-in capital and $77 from retained earnings to common stock.
      All
      share and per share data have been retroactively restated to reflect this
      split. 

Effective
      September 30, 2007, Emerson adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions
      of
      Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,    Employers   
      Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   
      (FAS 158). This statement requires employers to recognize the over- or
      under-funded status of defined benefit plans and other postretirement plans
      in
      the balance sheet and to recognize changes in the funded status in the year
      in
      which the changes occur through comprehensive income. The incremental effect
      of
      adopting FAS 158 was a reduction in other assets of $425, an increase in other
      liabilities of $97 and an after-tax charge to accumulated other comprehensive
      income of $329 (See Notes 10 and 11). 

Effective
      October 1, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions
      of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,    Accounting
      for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement 109   
      (FIN 48). FIN 48 addresses the accounting for uncertain tax positions that
      a
      company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. As a result of adoption,
      the Company recorded a charge of $6 to beginning retained earnings (See Note
      13). 

Certain
      prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year
      presentation. The operating results of the European appliance motor and pump
      business are classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
      The operating results of Brooks are classified as discontinued operations for
      2008. 

[
        36 ]
        Emerson 2008 

(2)
        Weighted Average Common Shares  

Basic
      earnings per common share consider only the weighted average of common shares
      outstanding while diluted earnings per common share consider the dilutive
      effects of stock options and incentive shares. Options to purchase approximately
      3.6 million, 1.1 million and 1.0 million shares of common stock were excluded
      from the computation of diluted earnings per share in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively, because their effect would have been antidilutive. Reconciliations
      of weighted average common shares for basic earnings per common share and
      diluted earnings per common share follow:  

(3)
      Acquisitions and Divestitures  

The
      Company acquired Motorola Inc.   s
      Embedded Computing business (Embedded Computing) during the first quarter of
      2008. Embedded Computing provides communication platforms and enabling software
      used by manufacturers of equipment for telecommunications, medical imaging,
      defense and aerospace, and industrial automation markets and is included in
      the
      Network Power segment. In addition to Embedded Computing, the company acquired
      several smaller businesses during 2008 mainly in the Process Management and
      Network Power segments. Total cash paid for these businesses was approximately
      $561 (net of cash and equivalents acquired of approximately $2) and their
      annualized sales were approximately $665. Goodwill of $273 ($214 of which is
      expected to be deductible for tax purposes) and identifiable intangible assets
      (primarily technology and customer relationships) of $191, which are being
      amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average life of eight years,
      were recognized from these transactions in 2008. Third-party valuations of
      assets are in-process; purchase price allocations are subject to refinement
      for
      fiscal year 2008 acquisitions. 

In
      the
      first quarter of 2008, the Company divested the Brooks Instrument flow meters
      and flow controls unit (Brooks), which had sales for the first quarter of 2008
      of $21 and net earnings of $1. The Company received $100 from the sale of
      Brooks, resulting in a pretax gain of $63 ($42 after-tax). The net gain and
      results of operations for fiscal 2008 were classified as discontinued
      operations; prior year results of operations were inconsequential. This business
      was previously included in the Process Management segment. In fiscal 2008,
      the
      Company completed the divestiture of the European appliance motor and pump
      business and received approximately $101 from the sale, resulting in a total
      loss of $92. In connection with a long-term strategy to divest selective
      slower-growth businesses, the Company had been actively pursuing the sale of
      this business. The forecast for this business was lower than originally planned
      due to a slow economic environment for the consumer appliance market, increasing
      competition from Asia, higher commodity costs, and loss of a customer. As a
      result, the carrying value of this business exceeded its estimated realizable
      value, and a loss of $52 was recorded for goodwill impairment in the second
      quarter of 2008. The Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell the
      business which resulted in an additional loss of $36 (including goodwill of
      $31)
      during the third quarter of 2008. A $4 loss was recorded when the transaction
      closed in the fourth quarter of 2008. The European appliance motor and pump
      business had total annual sales of $453, $441 and $399 and net earnings,
      excluding the loss, of $7, $7, and $6, in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
      The
      results of operations were classified as discontinued operations for all periods
      presented. This business was previously included in the Appliance and Tools
      segment. 

The
      Company acquired Damcos Holding AS (Damcos) during the second quarter of fiscal
      2007, and Stratos International, Inc. (Stratos) during the fourth quarter of
      fiscal 2007. Damcos supplies valve remote control systems and tank monitoring
      equipment to the marine and shipbuilding industries and is included in the
      Process Management segment. Stratos is a designer and manufacturer of
      radio-frequency and microwave interconnect products and is included in the
      Network Power segment. In addition to Damcos and Stratos, the Company acquired
      several smaller businesses during 2007 mainly in the Process Management and
      Appliance and Tools segments. Total cash paid for these businesses was
      approximately $295 (net of cash and equivalents acquired of approximately $40
      and debt assumed of approximately $56) and their annualized sales were $240.
      Goodwill of $189 (none of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes)
      and identifiable intangible assets (primarily technology and customer
      relationships) of $106, which are being amortized on a straight-line basis
      over
      a weighted-average life of nine years, were recognized from these transactions
      in 2007. 

A
          Powerful Force for Innovation [ 37 ] 

In
      2007,
      the Company divested two small business units that had total annual sales of
      $113 and $115 for fiscal years 2006 and 2005, respectively. In the fourth
      quarter of 2006, the Company received approximately $80 from the divestiture
      of
      the materials testing business, resulting in a pretax gain of $31 ($22
      after-tax). The materials testing business represented total annual sales of
      approximately $58 and $59 in 2006 and 2005, respectively. These businesses
      were
      not reclassified as discontinued operations because of
      immateriality. 

The
      Company acquired Artesyn Technologies, Inc. (Artesyn) during the third quarter
      of fiscal 2006, and Kn rr AG (Kn rr) and Bristol Babcock (Bristol) during the
      second quarter of fiscal 2006. Artesyn is a global manufacturer of advanced
      power conversion equipment and board-level computing solutions for
      infrastructure applications in telecommunication and data-communication systems
      and is included in the Network Power segment. Kn rr is a manufacturer of indoor
      and outdoor enclosure systems and cooling technologies for telecommunications,
      electronics and computing equipment and is included in the Network Power
      segment. Bristol is a manufacturer of control and measurement equipment for
      oil
      and gas, water and wastewater, and power industries and is included in the
      Process Management segment. In addition to Artesyn, Kn rr and Bristol, the
      Company acquired several smaller businesses during 2006 mainly in the Industrial
      Automation and Appliance and Tools segments. Total cash paid for these
      businesses was approximately $752 (net of cash and equivalents acquired of
      approximately $120 and debt assumed of approximately $90) and their annualized
      sales were $920. Goodwill of $481 ($54 of which is expected to be deductible
      for
      tax purposes) and identifiable intangible assets (primarily technology and
      customer relationships) of $189, which are being amortized on a straight-line
      basis over a weighted-average life of nine years, were recognized from these
      transactions in 2006. 

The
      results of operations of these businesses have been included in the Company   s
      consolidated results of operations since the respective dates of acquisition
      and
      prior to the respective dates of divestiture. 

(4)
      Other Deductions, Net  

Other
      deductions, net are summarized as follows: 

Other
      is
      comprised of several items that are individually immaterial, including minority
      interest expense, foreign currency gains and losses, bad debt expense, equity
      investment income and losses, as well as one-time items, such as litigation
      and
      disputed matters, insurance recoveries and interest refunds. Other increased
      from 2007 to 2008 primarily because of an additional $12 loss on foreign
      currency exchange transactions, an approximate $12 charge for in-process
      research and development in connection with the acquisition of the Embedded
      Computing business and a $31 goodwill impairment charge related to the North
      American appliance control business due to a slow economic environment for
      consumer appliance and residential end-markets and a major customer   s
      strategy to diversify suppliers and transition to and internalize the production
      of electronic controls. The customer   s
      strategy will result in a reduction of volume and potential elimination of
      the
      appliance control business as a supplier. As a result, sales and profits for
      this business are forecasted to decline. The Company considered the potential
      sale of this business and two strategic buyers expressed preliminary interest
      in
      the third quarter of 2008. Both subsequently decided not to pursue the
      acquisition of this business. Therefore, the decision was made to restructure
      these operations and integrate them with the North American appliance motors
      business. 

Gains,
      net for 2008 includes the following items. The Company received $54 and
      recognized a gain of $39 ($20 after-tax) on the sale of an equity investment
      in
      Industrial Motion Control Holdings, LLC, a manufacturer of motion control
      components for automation equipment. The Company also recorded a gain of $18
      related to the sale of a facility. 

Gains,
      net for 2007 includes the following items. The Company recorded gains of
      approximately $32 in 2007 related to the sale of its remaining 4.5 million
      shares of MKS Instruments, Inc. (MKS), a publicly-traded company. The Company
      also recorded a gain of approximately $24 in 2007 for payments received under
      the U.S. Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act (Offset Act). 

Gains,
      net for 2006 includes the following items. The Company recorded gains of
      approximately $26 in 2006 related to the sale of 4.4 million shares of MKS.
      In
      the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded a pretax gain of approximately
      $31 related to the divesture of the materials testing business. Also during
      the
      fourth quarter of 2006, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $14 related
      to
      the write-down of two businesses that were sold in 2007 to their net realizable
      values. The Company also recorded a gain of approximately $18 in 2006 for
      payments received under the Offset Act. 

[
      38 ]
      Emerson 2008 

(5)
      Rationalization of Operations  

The
      change in the liability for the rationalization of operations during the years
      ended September 30 follows: 

Expense
      includes $6, $8 and $4 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to the
      European appliance motor and pump business classified as discontinued
      operations. 

Rationalization
      of operations by segment is summarized as follows:  

Rationalization
      of operations comprises expenses associated with the Company   s
      efforts to continuously improve operational efficiency and to expand globally
      in
      order to remain competitive on a worldwide basis. These expenses result from
      numerous individual actions implemented across the divisions on a routine basis.
      Rationalization of operations includes ongoing costs for moving facilities,
      starting up plants from relocation as well as business expansion, exiting
      product lines, curtailing/downsizing operations because of changing economic
      conditions, and other items resulting from asset redeployment decisions.
      Shutdown costs include severance, benefits, stay bonuses, lease/contract
      terminations and asset write-downs. Start-up and moving costs include employee
      training and relocation, movement of assets and other items. Vacant facility
      costs include security, maintenance and utility costs associated with facilities
      that are no longer being utilized. 

During
      2008, rationalization of operations primarily related to the exit of
      approximately 10 production, distribution, or office facilities, including
      the
      elimination of approximately 2,300 positions, as well as costs related to
      facilities exited in previous periods. Noteworthy rationalization actions during
      2008 are as follows. Process Management included start-up costs related to
      capacity expansion in China to serve the Asian market and severance related
      to
      consolidation of certain production facilities in Europe to obtain operational
      efficiencies. Industrial Automation included severance and start-up and moving
      costs related to the consolidation of certain power transmission and valve
      facilities in North America to obtain operational efficiencies. Network Power
      included severance and start-up and moving costs related to the consolidation
      of
      certain production in North America to remain competitive on a global basis
      and
      start-up and moving costs related to the transfer of certain embedded computing
      production in Asia. Climate Technologies included severance and shutdown and
      start-up and moving costs related to the shifting of certain production in
      the
      United States to Mexico, and severance and shutdown costs related to the
      consolidation of certain production facilities in Europe to obtain operational
      efficiencies. Appliance and Tools included severance and start-up and moving
      costs related to the shifting of certain production from Canada to the United
      States and severance related to the closure of certain motor production in
      Europe to remain competitive on a global basis. The Company expects
      rationalization expense for 2009 to be approximately $125 to $150, including
      the
      costs to complete actions initiated before the end of 2008 and actions
      anticipated to be approved and initiated during 2009. 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation [ 39 ] 

During
      2007, rationalization of operations primarily related to the exit of
      approximately 25 production, distribution, or office facilities, including
      the
      elimination of approximately 2,200 positions, as well as costs related to
      facilities exited in previous periods. Noteworthy rationalization actions during
      2007 are as follows. Process Management included start-up costs related to
      capacity expansion in China to serve the Asian market, as well as severance
      and
      start-up and moving costs related to the movement of certain operations in
      Western Europe to Eastern Europe and Asia to improve profitability. Industrial
      Automation included severance and start-up and moving costs related to the
      consolidation of certain power transmission facilities in Asia and North America
      to obtain operational efficiencies and serve Asian and North American markets.
      Network Power included severance related to the closure of certain power
      conversion facilities acquired with Artesyn, as well as severance and start-up
      and moving costs related to the shifting of certain power systems production
      from the United States and Europe to Mexico to remain competitive on a global
      basis. Climate Technologies included start-up costs related to capacity
      expansion in Mexico and Eastern Europe to improve profitability and to serve
      these markets, and start-up and moving costs related to the consolidation of
      certain production facilities in the United States to obtain operational
      efficiencies. Appliance and Tools included severance and start-up and moving
      costs related to the consolidation of certain North American production, and
      severance related to the closure of certain motor production in Europe to remain
      competitive on a global basis. 

During
      2006, rationalization of operations primarily related to the exit of
      approximately 10 production, distribution, or office facilities, including
      the
      elimination of approximately 1,700 positions, as well as costs related to
      facilities exited in previous periods. Noteworthy rationalization actions during
      2006 are as follows. Process Management included severance related to the
      shifting of certain regulator production from Western Europe to Eastern Europe.
      Industrial Automation included start-up and moving costs related to shifting
      certain motor production in Western Europe to Eastern Europe, China and Mexico
      to leverage costs and remain competitive on a global basis and to serve these
      markets. Network Power included severance related to the closure of certain
      power conversion facilities acquired with Artesyn, severance, start-up and
      vacant facility costs related to the consolidation of certain power systems
      operations in North America and the consolidation of administrative operations
      in Europe to obtain operational synergies. Climate Technologies included
      severance related to the movement of temperature sensors and controls production
      from Western Europe to China and start-up and moving costs related to a new
      plant in Eastern Europe in order to improve profitability. Appliance and Tools
      included primarily severance and start-up and moving costs related to the
      shifting of certain tool and motor manufacturing operations from the United
      States and Western Europe to China and Mexico in order to consolidate facilities
      and improve profitability. 

(6)
      Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

Acquisitions
      are accounted for under the purchase method, with substantially all goodwill
      assigned to the reporting unit that acquires the business. Under the annual
      impairment test, if a reporting unit   s
      carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, a goodwill impairment is
      recognized to the extent that the reporting unit   s
      carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill.
      Fair
      values of reporting units are estimated using discounted cash flows and market
      multiples. 

The
      change in goodwill by business segment follows:  

See
      Notes
      3 and 4 for further discussion of changes in goodwill related to acquisitions,
      divestitures and impairment. 

[
      40 ]
      Emerson 2008 

The
      gross
      carrying amount and accumulated amortization of intangibles (other than
      goodwill) by major class follow:  

Total
      intangible amortization expense for 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $150, $131 and
      $107,
      respectively. Based on intangible assets as of September 30, 2008, amortization
      expense will approximate $148 in 2009, $130 in 2010, $112 in 2011, $87 in 2012
      and $62 in 2013. 

(7)
      Financial Instruments  

The
      Company selectively uses derivative financial instruments to manage interest
      costs, commodity prices and currency exchange risk. The Company does not hold
      derivatives for trading purposes. No credit loss is anticipated as the
      counterparties to these agreements are major financial institutions with high
      credit ratings. 

To
      efficiently manage interest costs, the Company utilizes interest rate swaps
      as
      cash flow hedges of variable rate debt or fair value hedges of fixed rate debt.
      Also as part of its hedging strategy, the Company utilizes purchased option
      and
      forward exchange contracts and commodity swaps as cash flow or fair value hedges
      to minimize the impact of currency and commodity price fluctuations on
      transactions, cash flows, fair values and firm commitments. Hedge
      ineffectiveness during 2008, 2007 and 2006 was immaterial. At September 30,
      2008, substantially all of the contracts for the sale or purchase of European
      and other currencies and the purchase of copper and other commodities mature
      within two years; contracts with a fair value of approximately $56 of losses
      mature in 2009 and $6 of losses mature in 2010. 

Notional
      transaction amounts and fair values for the Company   s
      outstanding derivatives, by risk category and instrument type, as of September
      30, 2008 and 2007, are summarized as follows. Fair values of the derivatives
      do
      not consider the offsetting underlying hedged item. 

Fair
      values of the Company   s
      financial instruments are estimated by reference to quoted prices from market
      sources and financial institutions, as well as other valuation techniques.
      The
      estimated fair value of long-term debt (including current maturities) was in
      excess of (less than) the related carrying value by ($12) and $2 at September
      30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The estimated fair value of each of the
      Company   s
      other classes of financial instruments approximated the related carrying value
      at September 30, 2008 and 2007. 

(8)
      Short-Term Borrowings and Lines of Credit  

Short-term
      borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt are summarized as
      follows: 

A
          Powerful Force for Innovation [ 41 ] 

In
      2000,
      the Company issued 13 billion Japanese yen of commercial paper and
      simultaneously entered into a ten-year interest rate swap, which fixed the
      rate
      at 2.2 percent. 

At
      year-end 2008, the Company maintained a five-year revolving credit facility
      effective until April 2011 amounting to $2.8 billion to support short-term
      borrowings and to assure availability of funds at prevailing interest rates.
      The
      credit facility does not contain any financial covenants and is not subject
      to
      termination based on a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change.
      There were no borrowings against U.S. lines of credit in the last three
      years. 

(9)
      Long-Term Debt  

Long-term
      debt is summarized as follows:  

During
      the second quarter of 2008, the Company issued $400 million of 5.250% notes
      due
      October 2018, under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities
      and
      Exchange Commission. During the first and third quarters of 2007, the Company
      issued $250 of 5.125%, ten-year notes, and $250 of 5.375%, ten-year notes,
      respectively, under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities
      and
      Exchange Commission. In 1999, the Company issued $250 of 5.85%, ten-year notes
      that were simultaneously swapped to U.S. commercial paper rates. The Company
      terminated the swap in 2001, establishing an effective interest rate of 5.7
      percent. 

Long-term
      debt maturing during each of the four years after 2009 is $599, $30, $256 and
      $500, respectively. Total interest paid related to short-term borrowings and
      long-term debt was approximately $235, $242 and $214 in 2008,   2007
      and
      2006, respectively. 

As
      of
      September 30, 2008, the Company could issue up to $1.35 billion in debt
      securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts
      and share purchase units under the shelf registration statement filed with
      the
      Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company may sell securities in one
      or
      more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at
      the
      time of sale. The net proceeds from the sale of the securities will be used
      for
      general corporate purposes, which may include, but are not limited to, working
      capital, capital expenditures, financing acquisitions and the repayment of
      short- or long-term borrowings. The net proceeds may be invested temporarily
      until they are used for their stated purpose. The Company intends to file a
      new
      shelf registration statement prior to the expiration of the existing
      registration in December 2008. 

[
        42 ]
        Emerson 2008 

(10)
      Retirement Plans  

Retirement
      plan expense includes the following components:  

The
      reconciliations of the actuarial present value of the projected benefit
      obligations and of the fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension
      plans follow:  

Approximately
      $81 of the $804 of accumulated losses included in accumulated other
      comprehensive income at September 30, 2008, will be amortized into earnings
      in
      2009. Retirement plans in total were overfunded by $107 as of June 30, 2008.
      Subsequent to the June 30 measurement date, asset values have declined as a
      result of recent volatility in the capital markets, while pension liabilities
      have decreased with higher interest rates. The Company estimates that retirement
      plans in total were underfunded by approximately $400 million as of October
      31,
      2008. 

A
          Powerful Force for Innovation [ 43 ] 

As
      of the
      plans   
      June 30 measurement date, the total accumulated benefit obligation was $3,308
      and $3,282 for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Also, as of the plans   
      June 30 measurement date, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit
      obligation and fair value of plan assets for the retirement plans with
      accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were $1,127, $1,025
      and
      $796, respectively, for 2008, and $663, $613 and $382, respectively, for
      2007. 

The
      weighted-average assumptions used in the valuations of pension benefits were
      as
      follows: 

The
      discount rate for the U.S. retirement plans was 6.50 percent as of June 30,
      2008. Defined benefit pension plan expense is expected to decline slightly
      in
      2009. 

The
      primary objective for the investment of plan assets is to secure participant
      retirement benefits, while earning a reasonable rate of return. Plan assets
      are
      invested consistent with the provisions of prudence and diversification rules
      of
      ERISA and with a long-term investment horizon. The expected return on plan
      assets assumption is determined by reviewing the investment return of the plans
      for the past ten years and the historical return (since 1926) of an asset mix
      approximating Emerson   s
      current asset allocation targets and evaluating these returns in relation to
      expectations of various investment organizations to determine whether long-term
      future returns are expected to differ significantly from the past. The
      Company   s
      pension plan asset allocations at June 30, 2008 and 2007, and target
      weighted-average allocations are as follows:  

The
      Company estimates that future benefit payments for the U.S. plans will be as
      follows: $137 in 2009, $144 in 2010, $150 in 2011, $158 in 2012, $166 in 2013
      and $958 in total over the five years 2014 through 2018. Using foreign exchange
      rates as of September 30, 2008, the Company estimates that future benefit
      payments for the non-U.S. plans will be as follows: $31 in 2009, $29 in 2010,
      $33 in 2011, $37 in 2012, $39 in 2013 and $224 in total over the five years
      2014
      through 2018. In 2009, the Company expects to contribute approximately $200
      to
      the retirement plans. 

(11)
      Postretirement Plans  

The
      Company sponsors unfunded postretirement benefit plans (primarily health care)
      for U.S. retirees and their dependents. Net postretirement plan expense for
      the
      years ended September 30 follows: 

[
      44 ]
      Emerson 2008 

The
      reconciliations of the actuarial present value of accumulated postretirement
      benefit obligations follow:  

Approximately
      $5 of losses netted within the $1 of accumulated credits included in accumulated
      other comprehensive income at September 30, 2008, will be amortized into
      earnings in 2009. The assumed discount rates used in measuring the obligations
      as of September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, were 6.50 percent, 6.00 percent and
      5.75 percent, respectively. The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2009
      was
      9.0 percent, declining to 5.0 percent in the year 2017. The assumed health
      care
      cost trend rate for 2008 was 9.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent in the year
      2017. A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the assumed health care
      cost trend rate for each year would increase or decrease the obligation as
      of
      September 30, 2008 and the 2008 postretirement plan expense by less than 5
      percent. The Company estimates that future benefit payments will be as follows:
      $42 in 2009, $46 in 2010, $53 in 2011, $53 in 2012, $53 in 2013 and $238 in
      total over the five years 2014 through 2018. 

(12)
      Contingent Liabilities and Commitments   

Emerson
      is a party to a number of pending legal proceedings and claims, including those
      involving general and product liability and other matters, several of which
      claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities
      when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will
      be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are based
      on developments to date, management   s
      estimates of the outcomes of these matters, the Company   s
      experience in contesting, litigating and settling other similar matters, and
      any
      related insurance coverage. 

Although
      it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters discussed
      above, historically, the Company has been successful in defending itself against
      claims and suits that have been brought against it. The Company will continue
      to
      defend itself vigorously in all such matters. While the Company believes a
      material adverse impact is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of
      litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future adverse development could
      have a material adverse impact on the Company. 

The
      Company enters into indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of
      business in which the indemnified party is held harmless and is reimbursed
      for
      losses incurred from claims by third parties. In connection with divestitures
      of
      certain assets or businesses, the Company often provides indemnities to the
      buyer with respect to certain matters including, for example, environmental
      liabilities and unidentified tax liabilities related to periods prior to the
      disposition. Because of the uncertain nature of the indemnities, the maximum
      liability cannot be quantified. Liabilities for obligations are recorded when
      probable and when they can be reasonably estimated. Historically, the Company
      has not made significant payments for these obligations. 

At
      September 30, 2008, there were no known contingent liabilities (including
      guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes
      will be material in relation to the Company   s
      financial statements, nor were there any material commitments outside the normal
      course of business. 

(13)   Income
      Taxes  

Earnings
        from continuing operations before income taxes consist of the
        following:  

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation [ 45 ] 

The
      principal components of income tax expense follow:  

The
      federal corporate statutory rate is reconciled to the Company   s
      effective income tax rate as follows:  

Non-U.S.
      tax holidays reduce the tax rate in certain foreign jurisdictions, the majority
      of which are expected to expire over the next three years. 

The
      principal items that gave rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities
      follow:  

[
      46 ]
      Emerson 2008 

At
      September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, net current deferred tax assets
      were
      $328 and $269, and net noncurrent deferred tax liabilities were $434 and $434.
      Total income taxes paid were approximately $1,110, $960 and $820 in 2008, 2007
      and 2006, respectively. The capital loss carryforward of $18 expires in 2012.
      The majority of the $249 net operating losses and tax credits can be carried
      forward indefinitely, while the remainders expire over varying periods. The
      valuation allowance for deferred tax assets at September 30, 2008, includes
      $50
      related to acquisitions, which would reduce goodwill if the deferred tax assets
      are ultimately realized. 

Effective
      October 1, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions
      of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,    Accounting
      for Uncertainty in Income Taxes - an Interpretation of FASB Statement 109   
      (FIN 48). FIN 48 addresses the accounting for uncertain tax positions that
      a
      company has taken or expects to take on a tax return. As of October 1, 2007,
      the
      Company had total unrecognized tax benefits of $149 before recoverability of
      cross-jurisdictional tax credits (U.S., state and non-U.S.) and temporary
      differences, and including amounts related to acquisitions that would reduce
      goodwill. If none of these liabilities is ultimately paid, the tax provision
      and
      tax rate would be favorably impacted by $90. As a result of adoption, the
      Company recorded a charge of $6 to beginning retained earnings. The amount
      of
      unrecognized tax benefits is not expected to significantly increase or decrease
      within the next 12 months. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount
      of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

Balance
                at October 1, 2007 

$ 

149 

Additions
                for current year tax positions 

33 

Additions
                for prior years tax positions 

27 

Reductions
                for prior years tax positions 

(26 

) 

Reductions
                for settlements with tax authorities 

(9 

) 

Reductions
                for expirations of statute of limitations 

(6 

) 

Balance
                at September 30, 2008  

$  

168  

If
      none
      of the $168 is ultimately paid, the tax provision and tax rate would be
      favorably impacted by $97. The Company accrues interest and penalties related
      to
      income taxes in income tax expense. Total interest and penalties recognized
      was
      $7 in 2008. As of September 30, 2008 and October 1, 2007, total accrued interest
      and penalties were $27 and $24, respectively. 

The
      major
      jurisdiction for which the Company files income tax returns is the United
      States. U.S. federal examinations by the Internal Revenue Service are
      substantially complete through 2005. The status of non-U.S. and state tax
      examinations varies by the numerous legal entities and jurisdictions in which
      the Company operates. 

(14)
      Stock-Based Compensation  

The
      Company   s
      stock-based compensation plans include stock options and incentive
      shares. 

STOCK
      OPTIONS  

The
      Company   s
      Stock Option Plans permit key officers and employees to purchase common stock
      at
      specified prices. Options are granted at 100 percent of the average of the
      high
      and low prices of the Company   s
      common stock on the date of grant, generally vest one-third each year and expire
      ten years from the date of grant. Compensation cost is recognized over the
      vesting period based on the number of options expected to vest. At September
      30,
      2008, approximately 11.4 million options remained available for grant under
      these plans. 

Changes
      in shares subject to option during the year ended September 30, 2008,
      follow:  

A
          Powerful Force for Innovation [ 47 ] 

The
      weighted-average grant-date fair value per share of options granted was $10.59,
      $9.31 and $8.80 for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total intrinsic
      value
      of options exercised was $75, $53 and $74 in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
      Cash received from option exercises under share option plans was $73, $60 and
      $89 and the actual tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option
      exercises was $19, $14 and $6 for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
      respectively. 

The
      fair
      value of each award is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes
      option-pricing model. Weighted-average assumptions used in the Black-Scholes
      valuations for 2008, 2007 and 2006 are as follows: risk-free interest rate
      based
      on the U.S. Treasury yield of 4.1 percent, 4.6 percent and 4.4 percent; dividend
      yield of 2.0 percent, 2.4 percent and 2.4 percent; and expected volatility
      based
      on historical volatility of 17 percent, 20 percent and 23 percent. The expected
      life of an option is six years based on historical experience and expected
      exercise patterns in the future. 

INCENTIVE
      SHARES  

The
      Company   s
      Incentive Shares Plans include performance share awards, which involve the
      distribution of common stock to key management personnel subject to certain
      conditions and restrictions. Performance share distributions are made primarily
      in shares of common stock of the Company and partially in cash. Compensation
      cost is recognized over the service period based on the number of awards
      expected to be ultimately earned. Performance share awards are accounted for
      as
      liabilities in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
      No.
      123 (revised 2004),    Share-Based
      Payment.   
      Compensation expense is adjusted at the end of each period to reflect the change
      in the fair value of the awards. 

In
      2008,
      as a result of the Company achieving certain performance objectives at the
      end
      of 2007 and the performance of services by the employees, 4,647,888 rights
      to
      receive common shares vested and were distributed to participants as follows:
      2,693,922 issued in shares, 1,562,045 withheld for income taxes, 313,222 paid
      in
      cash and 78,699 deferred by participants for future distribution. As of
      September 30, 2008, 5,008,800 rights to receive common shares (awarded primarily
      in 2007) were outstanding, contingent upon achieving the Company   s
      performance objective through 2010 and the performance of services by the
      employees. 

The
      Company   s
      Incentive Shares Plans also include restricted stock awards, which involve
      the
      distribution of the Company   s
      common stock to key management personnel subject to service periods ranging
      from
      three to ten years. The fair value of these awards is determined based on the
      average of the high and low prices of the Company   s
      stock on the date of grant. Compensation cost is recognized over the applicable
      service period. In 2008, 668,554 shares of restricted stock vested as a result
      of the fulfillment of the applicable service periods and were distributed to
      participants as follows: 403,402 issued in shares and 265,152 withheld for
      income taxes. As of September 30, 2008, there were 1,624,000 shares of
      restricted stock awards outstanding. 

Changes
      in awards outstanding but not yet earned under the Incentive Shares Plans during
      the year ended September 30, 2008, follow: 

The
      total
      fair value of shares earned/vested was $253, $5 and $123 under the Incentive
      Shares Plans of which $104, $2 and $55 was paid in cash, primarily for tax
      withholding, in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of September 30, 2008,
      approximately 16.0 million shares remained available for award under the
      Incentive Shares Plans. 

Compensation
      cost for the Stock Option and Incentive Shares Plans was $82, $185 and $81,
      for
      2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase from 2006 to 2007 primarily
      reflects the increase in Emerson   s
      stock price, as well as the overlap of two performance share programs (awards
      made in 2004 for performance through 2007 and awards made in 2007 for
      performance through 2010). The decrease from 2007 to 2008 reflects the overlap
      of two performance share programs in the prior year and the decrease in
      Emerson   s
      stock price in the current year. Total income tax benefit recognized in the
      income statement for these compensation arrangements during 2008, 2007 and
      2006
      were $21, $55 and $22, respectively. As of September 30, 2008, there was $153
      of
      total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested awards granted under
      these plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period
      of 2.3 years. 

In
      addition to the Stock Option and Incentive Shares Plans, the Company issued
      21,612 shares of restricted stock in 2008 under the Restricted Stock Plan for
      Non-Management Directors and 0.4 million shares remained available for issuance
      as of September 30, 2008. 

[
        48 ]
        Emerson 2008 

(15)   Common
      Stock  

At
      September 30, 2008, 47,241,751 shares of common stock were reserved, primarily
      for issuance under the Company   s
      stock-based compensation plans. During 2008, 22,404,300 treasury shares were
      acquired and 5,186,261 treasury shares were issued. 

Approximately
      1.2 million preferred shares are reserved for issuance under a Preferred Stock
      Purchase Rights Plan. Under certain conditions involving the acquisition of
      or
      an offer for 20 percent or more of the Company   s
      common stock, all holders of Rights, except an acquiring entity, would be
      entitled (i) to purchase, at an exercise price of $260, common stock of the
      Company or an acquiring entity with a value twice the exercise price, or (ii)
      at
      the option of the Board, to exchange each Right for one share of common stock.
      The Rights remained in existence until November 1, 2008. 

(16) Business
      Segment Information  

The
        Company designs and supplies product technology and delivers engineering
        services in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets around
        the world. The divisions of the Company are organized primarily by the nature
        of
        the products and services provided. The Process Management segment includes
        systems and software, measurement and analytical instrumentation, valves,
        actuators and regulators, and services and solutions that provide precision
        control, monitoring and asset optimization for plants that produce power
        or that
        process fluids, such as petroleum, chemicals, food and beverages, pulp and
        paper, and pharmaceuticals. The Industrial Automation segment includes
        industrial motors and drives, power transmission equipment, alternators,
        materials joining and precision cleaning, fluid power and control, and
        electrical distribution equipment, which are used in a wide variety of
        manufacturing operations and materials handling products and generators to
        provide integrated manufacturing solutions to our customers. The Network
        Power
        segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains power systems,
        including power conditioning and uninterruptible power supplies, embedded
        power
        supplies, precision cooling systems, electrical switching equipment, and
        site
        monitoring systems for telecommunications networks, data centers and other
        critical applications. The Climate Technologies segment consists of compressors,
        temperature sensors and controls, thermostats, flow controls, and remote
        monitoring services provided to all areas of the climate control industry.
        The
        Appliance and Tools segment includes general and special purpose motors and
        controls, appliances and appliance components, plumbing tools, and storage
        products used in a wide variety of commercial and residential applications.
        The
        principal distribution method for each segment is a direct sales force, although
        the Company also uses independent sales representatives and distributors.

The
        primary income measure used for assessing performance and making operating
        decisions is earnings before interest and income taxes. Intersegment sales
        approximate market prices. Accounting method differences between segment
        reporting and the consolidated financial statements include primarily management
        fees allocated to segments based on a percentage of sales and the accounting
        for
        pension and other retirement plans. Gains and losses from divestitures of
        businesses are included in Corporate and other. Corporate assets include
        primarily cash and equivalents, pensions, investments, and certain fixed
        assets. 

Summarized
      information about the Company   s
      operations by business segment and by geographic area follows: 

BUSINESS
      SEGMENTS  

      (See
      Notes 3, 4, 5 and 6) 

(a)  
             
                Corporate
                and other decreased from 2007 to 2008 primarily because of lower
                incentive
                stock compensation cost (see Note 14), substantially offset by a
                number of
                items including an increase in spending on corporate initiatives,
                commodity hedging-related mark-to-market expense, in-process research
                and
                development, higher environmental costs and other items. The increase
                from
                2006 to 2007 was primarily due to higher incentive stock compensation
                cost. 

A
        Powerful Force for Innovation [ 49 ]  

(17)
      Other Financial Data  

Items
      reported in earnings during the years ended September 30 include the
      following:  

The
      Company leases facilities, transportation and office equipment and various
      other
      items under operating lease agreements. The minimum annual rentals under
      noncancelable long-term leases, exclusive of maintenance, taxes, insurance
      and
      other operating costs, will approximate $194 in 2009, $139 in 2010, $92 in
      2011,
      $61 in 2012 and $47 in 2013. 

Other
      assets, other are summarized as follows:  

Items
      reported in accrued expenses include the following:  

[
        50 ]
        Emerson 2008 

Other
      liabilities are summarized as follows:  

(18)   Quarterly
      Financial Information (Unaudited)   

All
      per
      share data reflect the 2007 two-for-one stock split. Earnings per share amounts
      are computed independently each period; as a result, the sum of the quarter
      amounts may not equal the total for the respective year. 

The
      operating results of the European appliance motor and pump business for all
      periods presented and Brooks for first quarter 2008 are classified as
      discontinued operations. See Notes 3 and 4 for information regarding the
      Company   s
      acquisition and divestiture activities and non-recurring items. 

Emerson
      Electric Co. common stock (symbol EMR) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
      and the Chicago Stock Exchange. 

A
          Powerful Force for Innovation [ 51 ] 

Report
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The
      Board
      of Directors and Stockholders 

      Emerson
      Electric Co.: 

We
      have
      audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co.
      and
      subsidiaries as of September 30, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
      statements of earnings, stockholders   
      equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
      September 30, 2008. We also have audited Emerson Electric Co.   s
      internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2008, based on
      the
      criteria established in    Internal
      Control   Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
      Emerson Electric Co.   s
      management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for
      maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
      assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
      included in the accompanying Management   s
      Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is
      to
      express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion
      on
      the Company   s
      internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 

We
      conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
      Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
      plan
      and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
      financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
      respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included
      examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
      in
      the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
      significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
      financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
      reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
      reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
      and
      evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based
      on
      the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures
      as
      we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide
      a reasonable basis for our opinions. 

A
      company   s
      internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. A company   s
      internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
      that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
      accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
      of
      the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded
      as
      necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
      U.S.
      generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
      of
      the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
      and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
      prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
      of the company   s
      assets that could have a material effect on the financial
      statements. 

Because
      of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may
      not
      prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
      effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
      inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
      with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

In
      our
      opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly,
      in all material respects, the financial position of Emerson Electric Co. and
      subsidiaries as of September 30, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their
      operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
      ended September 30, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
      principles. Also in our opinion, Emerson Electric Co. maintained, in all
      material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
      September 30, 2008, based on criteria established in    Internal
      Control   Integrated Framework    issued
      by
      the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
      Commission. 

As
      discussed in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
      September 30, 2007, the Company has changed its method of accounting for
      defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans due to the
      adopted provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,
   Employers   
      Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans   an
      amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).  

/s/
        KPMG
        LLP 

        St.
        Louis, Missouri 

        November
        24, 2008 

Safe
        Harbor Statement  

This
      Annual Report contains various forward-looking statements and includes
      assumptions concerning Emerson s operations, future results, and prospects.
      These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, are subject
      to risk and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any
      such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the  safe
      harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
      Emerson provides the following cautionary statement identifying important
      economic, political, and technological factors, among others, changes of which
      could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set
      forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related
      assumptions. 

Such
      factors include the following: (i) current and future business environment,
      including interest rates, currency exchange rates and capital and consumer
      spending; (ii) potential volatility of the end markets served; (iii) competitive
      factors and competitor responses to Emerson initiatives; (iv) development and
      market introduction of anticipated new products; (v) availability of raw
      materials and purchased components; (vi) government laws and regulations,
      including taxes;   (vii)
      outcome of pending and future litigation, including environmental compliance;
      (viii) stability of governments and business conditions in emerging economies;
      (ix) penetration of emerging economies; (x) favorable environment for
      acquisitions, domestic and foreign, including regulatory requirements and market
      values of candidates; (xi) integration of acquisitions; (xii) favorable access
      to capital markets; and (xiii) execution of cost-reduction efforts. 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 v132847_ex21.htm

Unassociated Document

EXHIBIT
      21  

SUBSIDIARIES
      AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.  

       September
      30, 2008  

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

AIH,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

AIHL,
                LLC 

Delaware 

Alco
                Controls S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Aperture
                Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Aperture
                Technologies International, Inc. 

New York 

Aperture
                International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Applied
                Concepts, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

Woodstock
                Land Company, LLC 

Missouri 

Artesyn
                Technologies, Inc. 

Florida 

Artesyn
                Asset Management, Inc. 

Delaware 

Artesyn
                North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Artesyn
                Cayman LP 

Cayman Islands 

Artesyn
                International Ltd. 

Cayman Islands 

Artesyn
                Ireland Ltd. 

Cayman Islands 

Artesyn
                Technologies Asia Pacific, Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Zhong
                Shan Artesyn Technologies Electronics Co., Ltd. 

China 

Artesyn
                Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Artesyn
                UK, Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Artesyn
                Holding GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn
                Austria GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn
                Austria GmbH   Co. KG 

Austria 

Artesyn
                Hungary Elektronikai kft 

Hungary 

Artesyn
                do Brasil Comercio de Produtos de Conversao de Energia
                LTDA 

Brazil 

Artesyn
                Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn
                Elektronische Gerate Beteiligungs-und Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn
                GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Emerson
                Network Power - Embedded Computing   Power S.A.R.L. 

France 

Artesyn
                Delaware, Inc. 

Delaware 

Artesyn
                Delaware LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Network Power - Embedded Computing, Inc. 

Wisconsin 

Artesyn
                Communication Products Scandinavia AB 

Sweden 

Artesyn
                Communication Products UK Ltd. 

Scotland 

Emerson
                Network Power - Embedded Computing UK Ltd. 

Scotland 

Astec
                International Holdings Limited 

United Kingdom 

Astec
                America Inc. 

Delaware 

Astec
                Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
                International Limited 

Hong Kong 

Astec
                Advanced Power Systems Ltda. 

Brazil 

Astec
                Advanced Power Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
                Advanced Power Systems (Penang) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
                Agencies Limited 

Hong Kong 

Astec
                Custom Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Astec
                Custom Power (Philippines) Inc. 

Philippines 

Astec
                Custom Power (Singapore) Pte Ltd 

Singapore 

Astec
                Electronics Company Limited 

China 

Astec
                Electronics (Luoding) Company Ltd. 

China 

Astec
                Nanjing Design Engineering Company 

China 

Astec
                Power Supply (Shenzhen) Company Ltd. 

China 

Astec
                Power Inc. 

BVI 

Astec
                Power Philippines, Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson
                Network Power - Embedded Power Vietnam Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
                Network Power - Embedded Computing GmbH 

Germany 

EMR
                Holdings Limited 

Japan 

Stourbridge
                Holdings (U.K.) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mirroware
                Manufacturing Limited 

United Kingdom 

Astec
                Europe Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

B.B.I.,
                S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Branson
                Ultrasonic S.A. 

Switzerland 

Bristol
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Buehler
                Holdings LLC 

Delaware 

California
                Emerson LLC 

Delaware 

ClosetMaid
                Corporation 

Florida 

Clairson,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

ClosetMaid
                de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

ClosetMaid
                North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Compania
                de Motores Domesticos S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Computational
                Systems, Incorporated 

Tennessee 

CSI
                Technology, Inc. 

Delaware 

Controles
                Electromecanicos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Control
                Techniques Iberia S.A. 

Spain 

Cooligy
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
                Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Process Management Valve Automation, Inc. 

Delaware 

Bettis
                Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Bettis
                France SARL 

France 

Bettis
                Holdings, Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Bettis
                UK Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Prime
                Actuator Control Systems Limited 

United Kingdom 

Prime
                Actuator Control Systems UK Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Dantorque
                A/S 

Denmark 

Hytork
                Controls, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
                Automation Company 

Delaware  

Daniel
                Industrial, Inc. 

Delaware  

Daniel
                En-Fab Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
                International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Daniel
                Europe Limited 

United Kingdom 

Daniel
                Industries Limited 

United Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek
                Holdings Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek
                UK Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Daniel
                Measurement Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Spectra-Tek
                International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Greenfield
                (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Daniel
                Measurement and Control, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
                Industries Canada Inc. 

Canada 

Daniel
                Measurement Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Metco
                Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

Metco
                Services Venezuela, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Danmasa
                S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Hytork
                International Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Hytork
                Controls, Inc. 

Florida 

Hytork
                Controls Limited 

United Kingdom 

Hytork
                LLC 

Delaware 

Hytork
                Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

DEAS
                Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Decision
                Management International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Decision
                Management International, Inc. 

Florida 

EDAS
                (I) U.K. Limited 

United Kingdom 

EDAS
                (II) U.K. Limited 

United Kingdom 

EECO,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Apple
                JV Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS
                Electrical Group LLC 

Delaware 

Appleton
                Electric LLC 

Delaware 

Appleton
                Electric, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Appleton
                Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS
                Electrical Group Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Easy
                Heat Ltd. 

Canada 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

EGS
                Participacoes Ltda. 

Brazil 

EGS
                Holding S.A.R.L. 

France 

ATX
                S.A. 

France 

EGS
                Private Ltd. 

Singapore 

Easy
                Heat, Inc. 

Delaware 

GSEG
                LLC 

Delaware 

O-Z
                Gedney Company LLC 

Delaware 

Easy
                Heat Holding B.V. 

Netherlands 

Easy
                Heat Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Electrical
                Reliability Services, Inc. 

California 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Computer
                Process Controls, Inc. 

Georgia 

Emerson
                Retail Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Clive
                Samuels   Associates, Inc. 

New Jersey 

Emerson
                Climate Services, LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland
                Access +, Inc. 

Delaware 

Copeland
                Corporation LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland
                de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies (India) Limited 

India 

CopelandBitzer
                L.P. 

Delaware 

CopelandBitzer
                Management LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland
                Redevelopment Corporation 

Missouri 

CR
                Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll
                Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll
                Mexico LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Electric (U.S.) Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Automatic
                Switch Company 

Delaware 

ASC
                Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Asco
                Controls A.G. 

Switzerland 

Asco
                Controls B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco
                Mideast B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco
                Magnesszelep Kft. 

Hungary 

Asco/Joucomatic
                sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Asco/Joucomatic
                s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Asco/Joucomatic
                ZA BV 

Netherlands 

Asco/Joucomatic
                Sarl 

Switzerland 

Ascomation
                Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
                Numatics Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
                Valve Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Ascomation
                (NZ) Ltd. 

New Zealand 

Asco
                Numatics (NZ) Limited 

New Zealand 

Sirai
                Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
                AB 

Sweden 

Asco
                (India) Limited 

India 

ASCO
                Japan Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Ascomatica
                S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Asco
                Services, Inc. 

New Jersey 

ASCO
                Switch Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO
                Power Technologies, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASCO
                Valve Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO
                Valve, Inc. 

Delaware 

ASCO
                Controls, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASCO
                Valve Manufacturing, LLC 

Delaware 

Ascoval
                Industria E Commercio Ltda. 

Brazil 

Branson
                Ultrasonics Corporation 

Delaware 

Branson
                Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Branson
                Ultrasonidos S.A.E. 

Spain 

Branson
                Ultrasons S.A.S. 

France 

Environmental
                Remediation Management, LLC 

Delaware 

El-O-Matic
                GmbH 

Germany 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
                Climate Technologies GmbH 

Germany  

Copeland
                Refrigeration Europe S.A. 

Belgium 

Copeland
                S.A. 

Belgium 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies s.a.r.l. 

France 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies S.r.L. 

Italy 

Emerson
                Dietzenbach GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Electric GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Electric GmbH   Co. OHG  

Germany 

Emerson
                Electric Overseas Finance Corp. 

Delaware 

Motores
                U.S. de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

U.S.E.M.
                de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Process Management GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Process Management GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

Mobrey
                GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Process Management Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
                Retail Services Europe GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Technologies Verwaltungs GmbH  

Germany 

Emerson
                Technologies GmbH   Co. 

Germany 

Emersub
                LXXXIV, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Process Management, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
                LXXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Marbaise
                Hanlo LS GmbH 

Germany 

Ridge
                Tool GmbH 

Germany 

Ridge
                Tool GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

RIDGID
                Peddinghaus Werkzeug GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount
                Inc. 

Minnesota 

Control
                Techniques - Americas, Inc. 

Delaware 

Control
                Techniques - Americas LLC 

Delaware 

Fincor
                Holding, LLC 

Delaware 

Dieterich
                Standard, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Process Management AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
                Process Management A/S (Denmark) 

Denmark 

Emerson
                Process Management AS 

Norway 

Emerson
                Process Management Holding AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson
                Process Management AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson
                EAD 

Bulgaria 

Emerson
                Process Management Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
                Process Management Romania S.R.L. 

Romania 

Emerson
                Process Management sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
                Process Management Ticaret Limited Sirketi 

Turkey 

Emerson
                Process Management, s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Emerson
                Process Management, s.r.o. 

Slovakia 

Fisher-Rosemount
                Ges. M.B.H. 

Austria 

FR
                af 13.august 1999 A/S 

Denmark 

Emerson
                Process Management Power and Water Solutions Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
                Process Management Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
                Process Management Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
                Process Management (Shanghai) International Trading Co.
                Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Process Management Valve Automation (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
                Process Management (India) Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Emerson
                Process Management Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
                Process Management, S.L. 

Spain 

Emerson
                Process Management Oy 

Finland 

P
                I
                Components Corp. 

Texas 

Rosemount
                Analytical Inc. 

Delaware 

Rosemount
                China Inc. 

Minnesota 

Rosemount
                Nuclear Instruments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Xomox
                Uruguay S.A. 

Uruguay 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
                Power Transmission Corporation 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Chain, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Power Transmission Drives and Components, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Power Transmission Manufacturing  

Missouri 

Emerson
                Power Transmission Ithaca, Inc. 

Delaware 

Rollway
                Bearing International Ltd. 

Delaware 

Rollway
                Bearing N.V. 

Belgium 

EPT
                Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

McGill
                Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Indiana 

Emerson
                Power Transmission Bearings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
                Corporation 

Ohio 

Alber
                Corp. 

Florida 

Atlas
                Asia Limited 

Hong Kong 

Emerson
                Network Power Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Atlas
                Air Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
                Network Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Wuhan
                Liebert Computer Power Support System Limited 

China 

Emerson
                Network Power (India) Private Limited 

India 

Leroy
                Somer   Controls India (P) Ltd. 

India 

Emerson
                Network Power, Liebert Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Network Power (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
                Network Power (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 

Malaysia 

Emerson
                Network Power Surge Protection, Inc. 

New York 

Emerson
                Network Power (Thailand) Co. Ltd. 

Thailand 

Liebert
                Field Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
                North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
                Property Holdings, LLC 

Delaware 

Liebert
                Tecnologia Ltda. 

Brazil 

Micro
                Motion, Inc. 

Colorado 

Ridge
                Tool Company 

Ohio 

Ridge
                Tool (Australia) Pty., Ltd. 

Australia 

Ridge
                Tool Manufacturing Company 

Delaware 

Ridge
                Tool Pattern Company 

Delaware 

Ridgid,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Ridgid
                Italia Srl 

Italy 

Ridgid
                Online, Inc. 

Ohio 

Ridgid
                Werkzeuge AG 

Switzerland 

Therm-O-Disc,
                Incorporated 

Ohio 

Componentes
                Avanzados de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Controles
                de Temperatura S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

E.G.P.
                Corporation 

Delaware 

Emermex
                S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Arabia, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
                4 LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Capital (Canada) Corporation 

Canada 

EMRCDNA
                I 

Canada 

EMRCDNA
                II 

Canada 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies - Distribution Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Electric (Asia) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Applied
                Motor Technologies (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Branson
                Ultrasonics (Asia Pacific) Co. Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Emerson
                Electric (South Asia/Pacific) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
                Technology Service (Shenzhen) Co. 

China 

Emerson
                Electric II, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson
                Electric de Colombia, Ltda. 

Colombia 

Emerson
                Electric International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Electric Ireland Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Emersub
                Treasury Ireland 

Ireland 

Emerson
                Electric (Mauritius) Ltd. 

Mauritius 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
                Electric Co. (India) Private Ltd. 

India 

Westinghouse
                Electric Private Ltd. (Mauritius) 

Mauritius 

Emerson
                Process Management Power   Water Solutions India Private
                Limited 

India 

Emerson
                Electric Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands 

Alco
                Controls Spol s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Branson
                Ultrasonics B.V. 

Netherlands 

Beckman
                Industrial B.V. 

Netherlands 

Damcos
                Holding A/S 

Denmark 

Damcos
                A/S. 

Denmark 

Damcos
                Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Process Management Marine Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

El-O-Matic
                B.V. 

Netherlands 

El-O-Matic
                Valve Actuators (F.E.) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
                Process Management (South Africa) (Proprietary) Ltd. 

South Africa 

Electrische
                Apparantenfabriek Capax B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
                a.s. 

Slovakia 

Emerson
                LLC 

Russia 

Emerson
                SRL 

Romania 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Emerson
                Electric Spol, s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Emerson
                Network Power Pakistan (Private) Limited 

Pakistan 

Emerson
                Network Power (Vietnam) Co. Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
                Process Management B.V. 

Netherlands 

EMRSN
                HLDG B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
                Network Power B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
                Process Management Flow B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fisher
                Rosemount Temperature B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fusite,
                B.V. 

Netherlands 

Ortrud
                Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 

Germany 

Kn rr-Holding
                GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
                AG 

Germany 

Kn rr
                AB 

Sweden 

Kn rr
                AG  

Switzerland 

Kn rr
                AG   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Kn rr
                BV 

Netherlands 

Kn rr
                Electronics GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
                Electronics GmbH   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec
                GmbH   Grundstucksverwaltung KG 

Germany 

Kn rr
                Electronics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Kn rr
                Holding Ltda. 

Brazil 

Knuerr
                Ltda. 

Brazil 

Kn rr-Innovation
                GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
                Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Kn rr
                Lommatec Mechanik fur die Elektronik Beteiligungs und Verwaltungs
                GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
                s.a.r.l. 

France 

Knuerr
                Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Spectra
                Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Kn rr
                s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Kn rr
                Technical Furniture GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec
                GmbH 

Germany 

Kn rr
                International GmbH 

Germany 

Therm-O-Disc
                Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Therm-O-Disc
                (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
                Electric Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Electric (Taiwan) Company Limited 

Taiwan 

Emerson
                Finance LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Global Finance Company 

Missouri 

Emerson
                Middle East, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Network Power, Energy Systems, North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
                Network Power Exportel, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Network Power, Inc. 

Texas 

Emerson
                Network Power Services, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Sice S.r.l. 

Italy 

Branson
                Ultrasuoni S.r.l. 

Italy 

CDZ.T
                s.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
                Network Power Holding S.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
                Network Power Srl 

Italy 

Emerson
                Network Power Sp. Z.o.o. 

Poland 

Liebert
                Hiross Holding GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Network Power GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Network Power Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
                Process Management S.r.l. 

Italy 

Sirai
                Elettromeccanica s.r.l. 

Italy 

Sirai
                Deutschland GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
                Telecommunication Products, LLC 

Delaware 

JTP
                Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Dura-Line
                Espana, S.L. 

Spain 

Dura-Line
                Iberia, S.L. 

Spain 

Dura-Line
                Limited  

United Kingdom 

OOO
                Dura-Line 

Russia 

Emerson
                Network Power Connectivity Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Electronic Connector and Components do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
                Mexico Corporate Services S de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

LoDan
                de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

LoDan
                West do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Stratos
                International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Advanced
                Interconnection Technology LLC 

Delaware 

Paracer,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Rapidwerks
                LLC 

Delaware 

Sterling
                Holding Company 

Delaware 

Quality
                Components, Inc. 

Delaware 

Semflex,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Swiss
                Precision Products, Inc. 

Delaware 

TQ
                Management Corporation 

Delaware 

Trompeter
                Electronics, Inc. 

Delaware 

STRATOS
                Lightwave, LLC 

Delaware 

Stratos
                Lightwave-Florida Incorporated 

Delaware 

Stratos
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Stratos
                Lightwave UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Tsunami
                Optics, Inc. 

California 

Viewsonics
                do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Vitelec
                Electronics Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Engineered
                Endeavors, Inc. 

Delaware 

Engineered
                Endeavors do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Engineered
                Endeavors do Brasil Servicos Ltda. 

Brazil 

Northern
                Technologies, Inc. 

Idaho 

Emerson
                Venezuela C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson
                Ventures Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                WFC, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
                3 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                CII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
                XLVI, Inc. 

Nevada 

Wilson
                Investment 2, Inc. 

Delaware 

Copesub,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Alliance
                Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                LII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
                XCI, Inc. 

Delaware 

TAG,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
                6 LLC 

Delaware 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

The
                Automation Group, L.P. 

Texas 

Emersub
                Italia Srl 

Italy 

International
                Gas Distribution S.A. 

Luxembourg 

O.M.T
                Officina Meccanica Tartarini S.r.l. 

Italy 

Fisher
                Process Srl 

Italy 

EMR
                Foundation, Inc. 

Missouri 

EMR
                Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Branson
                de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
                Compresores Hermeticos, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
                Korea, Inc. 

Korea 

Digital
                Appliance Controls, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

EMR
                Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
                Appliance Solutions (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies Australia Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
                DHC B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
                Electric (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub
                7 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                8 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                9 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                10 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                11 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                12 LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Electric Canada Limited 

Canada 

Emerson
                Electric Chile Ltda. 

Chile 

Emerson
                Electric de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Ascotech,
                S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Electric do Brasil Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson
                Comercio em Tecnologia de Climatizacao Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson
                Electric Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson
                (China) Motor Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Process Management Co. Ltd. 

China 

EMR
                Emerson Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson
                Electric (China) Holdings Co., Ltd. 

China 

ASCO
                Valve (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Beijing
                Rosemount Far East Instrument Co., Ltd. 

China 

Branson
                Ultrasonics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

ClosetMaid
                (Jiangmen) Storage Limited 

China 

Emerson
                Beijing Instrument Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Refrigeration Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Research   Development Co.,
                Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Electric (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                eResource (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Fusite Electric (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Junkang Enterprise (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Machinery   Equipment (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Network Power (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Network Power Connectivity Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Network Power Co. Ltd. (f/k/a/ Avansys) 

China 

Emerson
                Power Transmission (Zhangzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Process Management Flow Technologies Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Process Management Power   Water Solutions Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Process Management (Tianjin) Valves Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Process Management Valve Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Professional Tools (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Fisher
                Jeon Gas Equipment (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Fisher
                Regulators (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Leroy
                Somer Electro-Technique (Fuzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

EMR
                (Asia) Limited 

Hong Kong 

Emerson
                Network Power (Jiangmen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
                Electric Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
                Electric (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
                Electric Poland Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

FZN
                Marbaise LS Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
                Energy Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
                Holding Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
                Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
                Network Power Energy Systems AB 

Sweden 

Rosemount
                Tank Radar AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
                Process Management Marine Solutions Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

MEP
                Marine AS 

Norway 

Rosemount
                Tank Gauging India Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Rosemount
                Tank Gauging Middle East SPC 

Bahrain 

SF-Control
                OY 

Finland 

Emerson
                Network Power del Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

Emerson
                Network Power d.o.o. 

Croatia 

Emerson
                Network Power Limited 

Nigeria 

Emerson
                Network Power (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson
                Network Power (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd 

South Africa 

Emerson
                Europe S.A. 

France 

Asco
                Joucomatic S.A. 

France 

Asco
                Joucomatic GmbH 

Germany 

Asco
                Joucomatic N.V. 

Belgium 

Asco
                Numatics S.p.A. 

Italy 

Fluidocontrol
                S.A. 

Spain 

Sotrac
                S.r.l. 

Italy 

Company
                Financiere de Chausey, SA 

France 

Emerson
                Network Power Energy Systems S.A. 

France 

Emerson
                Energy Systems EURL 

France 

Francel
                S.A. 

France 

Leroy-Somer
                S.A. 

France 

Bertrand
                Polico SAS 

France 

Comercial
                Leroy-Somer Ltda. 

Chile 

Constructions
                Electriques DeBeaucourt SAS 

France 

ESO
                S.A.S 

France 

ABME
                SARL 

France 

BEI
                Roanne SARL 

France 

BEI
                SARL 

France 

Belzon
                et Richardot SARL 

France 

Cargnelli
                SAS 

France 

Cocard
                SARL 

France 

DME
                SARL 

France 

EMC
                SARL 

France 

Houssin
                SARL 

France 

Lorraine
                Service SARL 

France 

Maintenance
                Industrie Service Provence SARL 

France 

MEZIERES
                SARL 

France 

Michel
                SARL 

France 

MIS
                Rennes SARL 

France 

MIS
                SARL 

France 

MIS
                SIBE SARL 

France 

MIS
                SPIRE SARL 

France 

Navarre
                Services SARL 

France 

OES
                SARL 

France 

Oury
                SARL 

France 

Paillet
                Service SARL 

France 

Prevost
                SARL 

France 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Radiel
                Bobinage SARL 

France 

Silvain
                SARL 

France 

Sorem
                SARL 

France 

Sud
                Maintenance SARL 

France 

Suder
                SARL 

France 

Wieprecht
                CF SARL 

France 

Wieprecht
                Rodez SARL 

France 

Etablissements
                Trepeau SAS 

France 

Girard
                Transmissions SAS 

France 

I.M.I
                Kft 

Hungary 

La
                Francaise de Manutention SAS 

France 

Leroy-Somer
                Denmark A/S 

Denmark 

Leroy-Somer
                Elektromotoren GmbH 

Germany 

Leroy-Somer
                Electromekanik Sistemler Ticaret Ltd. STI 

Turkey 

Leroy-Somer
                Iberica S.A. 

Spain 

Teilsa
                Servicios, S.L. 

Spain 

Leroy-Somer
                Ltd. 

Greece 

Leroy-Somer
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Leroy-Somer
                Marbaise GmbH 

Germany 

Leroy-Somer
                Motores E Sistemas Electro Mecanicas CDA 

Portugal 

Leroy-Somer
                B.V. 

Netherlands 

Leroy-Somer
                Norden AB 

Sweden 

Leroy-Somer
                Norge A/S 

Norway 

Leroy-Somer
                NV 

Belgium 

Muyle
                Electro-Machinery SA 

Belgium 

Leroy-Somer
                OY 

Finland 

Leroy-Somer
                (Pty) Ltd. (South Africa) 

South Africa 

Leroy-Somer
                (Pty) Ltd. 

Australia 

Leroy-Somer
                (SEA) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Leroy-Somer
                Suise S.A. 

Switzerland 

Leroy-Somer
                S.p.A. 

Italy 

E.M.S.
                Elettro Multi Service Srl 

Italy 

Maintenance
                Industrielle de Vierzon SAS 

France 

M.L.S.
                Holice Spol. s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

MLS
                Industries Inc. 

Delaware 

Yorba
                Linda International Inc. 

Delaware 

Moteurs
                Leroy-Somer S.A. 

France 

Moteurs
                Patay SAS 

France 

Societe
                Anonyme de Mecanique et D outillage du Vivarais S.A. 

France 

Societe
                Confolentaise de Metallurgie SAS 

France 

Societe
                de Mecanique et D Electrothermie des Pays de L'Adour SAS 

France 

Emerson
                Network Power SA 

France 

Ridgid
                France SAS 

France  

Emerson
                Laminaciones de Acero de Monterrey, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Network Power, S. A. 

Spain 

Jaure,
                S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson
                Process Management Costa Rica S.R.L. 

Costa Rica 

Emerson
                Process Management Europe Middle East   Africa GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson
                Process Management (Magyarorszag) Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
                Process Management NV 

Belgium 

PI
                Components NV 

Belgium 

Emerson
                Sistemas de Energia Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
                (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub
                5 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
                Mexico, Inc. 

Nevada 

ClosetMaid
                Reynosa S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
                Scroll Compresores de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Daniel
                Measurement   Control, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerpowsys,
                S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Electronic Connector and Components Mexico S.A. de C.V.  

Mexico 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
                Network Power Embedded Computing S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Tool and Appliance Company, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
                Tool Company de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
                1 LLC 

Delaware 

Intermetro
                de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
                XXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Digital
                Appliance Controls (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Control
                Techniques Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Control
                Techniques GmbH 

Germany 

Reta
                Anlagenbau GmbH 

Germany 

Control
                Techniques Asia-Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Control
                Techniques Drives (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Control
                Techniques Singapore Pte Limited 

Singapore 

Control
                Techniques Australia Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Control
                Techniques Bermuda Limited 

Bermuda 

Control
                Techniques Drives Limited 

United Kingdom 

Control
                Techniques Dynamics Limited 

United Kingdom 

Evershed
                Powerotor Limited 

United Kingdom 

Moore
                Reed   Company Limited 

United Kingdom 

Control
                Techniques Southern Africa (Pty.) Limited  

South Africa 

Control
                Techniques SpA 

Italy 

Control
                Techniques Worldwide BV 

Netherlands 

Control
                Techniques AG 

Switzerland 

Control
                Techniques BV 

Netherlands 

Control
                Techniques Brno s.r.o. 

Czech Republic 

Control
                Techniques China Pte. Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Control
                Techniques AS 

Denmark 

Control
                Techniques Endustriyel Control Sistemieri Sanayii Ve Ticaret
                A.S. 

Turkey 

Control
                Techniques India Limited 

India 

Control
                Techniques Elpro Automation Limited 

India 

DriveShop
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Electric
                Drives Limited 

Ireland 

Electric
                Drives Manufacturing Ltd. 

Ireland 

Foray
                600 Limited 

United Kingdom 

Foray
                606 Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                Holding Company Limited 

United Kingdom 

Asco
                Joucomatic Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Asco
                Power Technologies Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Joucomatic
                Controls Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Sotrac
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Temple
                Instruments Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Bristol
                Babcock Limited 

United Kingdom 

Computational
                Systems Limited 

United Kingdom 

Copeland
                Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

CSA
                Consulting Engineers, Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

El-O-Matic
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                Electric U.K. Limited 

United Kingdom 

Bray
                Lectroheat Limited 

United Kingdom 

Buehler
                Europe Limited 

United Kingdom 

BannerScientific
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Buehler
                UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

Metaserve
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Metallurgical
                Services Laboratories Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                FZE 

UAE 

Emerson
                Climate Technologies FZE 

UAE 

Emerson
                Network Power Limited 

United Kingdom 

Hiross
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Liebert
                Swindon Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                Energy Systems (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                Process Management Limited 

United Kingdom 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
                Process Management Distribution Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fisher-Rosemount
                Properties Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                Process Management Shared Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

F-R
                Properties (UK) Limited 

United Kingdom 

EMR
                Barnstaple Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                Process Management Services Limited 

United Kingdom 

Emerson
                UK Trustees Limited 

United Kingdom 

Fisher
                Controls Limited 

United Kingdom 

Farris
                Engineering Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Fisher
                Governor Company Ltd. 

United Kingdom 

Midwest
                Microwave International Limited 

United Kingdom 

Midwest
                Microwave Limited 

United Kingdom 

MDC
                Technology Limited 

United Kingdom 

MDC
                Technology Trustees Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mobrey
                Group Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mobrey
                Overseas Sales Limited 

United Kingdom 

Mobrey
                S.A./N.V. 

Belgium 

Mobrey
                Sp. Z.o.o. 

Poland 

Mobrey
                SA 

France 

Mobrey
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Oaksmere
                Refrigeration Design   Consultancy Limited 

United Kingdom 

Pactrol
                Controls Limited 

United Kingdom 

S
                R
                Drives Manufacturing Limited 

United Kingdom 

Switched
                Reluctance Drives Limited 

United Kingdom 

Reluctance
                Motors Limited 

United Kingdom 

F-R
                Technologias de Flujo, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Fisher-Rosemount
                Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

Motores
                Reynosa, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Motoreductores
                U.S., S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

NetworkPower
                Ecuador S.A. 

Ecuador 

PT
                Emerson Indonesia 

Indonesia 

RAC
                Technologies (Israel) Ltd. 

Israel 

Rey-Lam,
                S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Rotores
                S.A. de C.V. Rotores S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Saab
                Rosemount Marine Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Termotec
                de Chihuahua S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tranmet
                Holdings Limited 

United Kingdom 

Tranmet
                Holdings B.V. 

Netherlands 

Industrial
                Group Metran CJSC 

Russia 

Metran-Export
                CJSC 

Russia 

Firma
                Metran LLC 

Russia 

Metran
                Sensor LLC 

Russia 

EPMCO
                Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Fisher
                Controls International LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Process Management Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

Bristol
                Digital Systems Australasia Proprietary Limited 

Australia 

Emerson
                Electric Australia Co. Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
                Process Management New Zealand Limited 

New Zealand 

Emerson
                Process Management China Ltd. 

Hong Kong 

Emerson
                Process Management Regulator Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Fisher
                Controls De Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Fro-Mex,
                S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Instrument
                  Valve Services Company 

Delaware 

Nippon
                Fisher Co. Ltd. 

Japan 

Fisco
                Ltd. (Fisco Kabushiki Kaisha) 

Japan 

Fisher-Rosemount
                Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Process Management LLLP 

Delaware 

Emerson
                Performance Solutions, Inc. 

Georgia 

Emerson
                Process Management Dominicana, S.A. 

Dominican Republic 

Emerson
                Process Management Power   Water Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

LEGAL
                NAME  

JURISDICTION OF  

                 INCORPORATION  

Emerson
                Process Management S.A.S. 

France 

Emerson
                Process Management, Lda 

Portugal 

Fiberconn
                Assemblies Morocco S.A.R.L. 

Morocco 

Flo
                Healthcare Solutions, LLC 

Georgia 

Fusite
                Corporation 

Ohio 

Emerson
                Japan, Ltd. 

Japan 

Fusite
                Land Company 

Delaware 

General
                Equipment and Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Kentucky 

TopWorx
                UK Limited 

United Kingdom 

TopWorx
                PTE Ltd. 

Singapore 

Twist-Set
                Controls (Proprietary) Limited 

South Africa 

TopWorx
                IC-Disc, Inc. 

Delaware 

High
                Voltage Maintenance Corporation 

Ohio 

Hiross
                India Private Limited 

India 

Humboldt
                Hermetic Motor Corp. 

Delaware 

Kato
                Engineering, Inc. 

Delaware 

Knaack
                LLC 

Delaware 

Capsacorp
                LLC 

Delaware 

Kn rr,
                Inc. 

California 

Kop-Flex,
                Inc. 

Delaware 

Kop-Flex
                Canada Limited 

Canada 

Lionville
                Systems, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

Metaloy,
                Inc. 

Massachusetts 

Metropolitan
                International, Inc. 

Nevada 

InterMetro
                Industries Corporation 

Nevada 

InterMetro
                Industries Corporation 

Delaware 

InterMetro
                Industries B.V. 

Netherlands 

Metro
                Industries, Inc. 

Nevada 

Metropolitan
                Wire (Canada) Ltd. 

Canada 

Metropolitan
                Wire Corporation 

Pennsylvania 

Midwest
                Microwave Inc. 

Delaware 

Motores
                Hermeticos del Sur, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Numatics,
                Incorporated 

Michigan 

Asco
                Numatics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan 

Microsmith,
                Inc. 

Arizona 

Numatics
                (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Numatics
                de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Numatics
                GmbH 

Germany 

Numatics
                Limited 

United Kingdom 

Numatics
                Spain, S.L. 

Spain 

Ultra
                Air Products, Inc. 

Michigan 

PC
                  E, Inc. 

Missouri 

Ridge
                Tool Europe NV 

Belgium 

Ridgid
                Scandinavia A/S 

Denmark 

Von
                Arx AG 

Switzerland 

Von
                Arx GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount
                Tank Gauging North America, Inc. 

Texas 

Termocontroles
                de Juarez S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

The
                Sulton Company, Inc. 

Delaware 

Tescom
                Corporation 

Minnesota 

Tescom,
                LLC 

Minnesota 

Hankuk
                Tescom Ltd. 

Korea 

Tescom
                Europe Management GmbH 

Germany 

Tescom
                Europe GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Thunderline
                Z, Inc. 

Delaware 

Transmisiones
                de Potencia Emerson S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Wiegand
                S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 v132847_ex23.htm

Unassociated Document

Exhibit
      23 

CONSENT
      OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The
      Board
      of Directors 

      Emerson
      Electric Co.: 

We
      consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
      333-154362, 333-154361, 333-152917, 333-152916, 333-118591, 333-118589,
      333-90240, 333-46919 and 33-38805 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos.
      333-110546, 333-52658, 333-84673 and 333-66865 on Form S-3 of Emerson Electric
      Co. of our report dated November 24, 2008, with respect to the consolidated
      balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. and subsidiaries as of September 30,
      2008
      and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders 
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
      September 30, 2008, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial
      reporting as of September 30, 2008, which report is incorporated by reference
      in
      the September 30, 2008 annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
      Co. 

Our
        report refers to a change in the method of accounting for pension and other
        postretirement benefits in 2007. 

/s/
        KPMG
        LLP  

St.
      Louis, Missouri 

      November
      24, 2008 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 v132847_ex24.htm

Exhibit
        24 

POWER
        OF
        ATTORNEY  

The
        undersigned members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers of Emerson
        Electric Co., a Missouri corporation with principal offices at 8000 West
        Florissant Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri, 63136, hereby appoint W. J. Galvin
        as
        their Attorney-in-Fact for the purpose of signing Emerson Electric Co.'s
        Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K (and any and all Amendments
        thereto) for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. 

Dated:
        October 7, 2008 

Signature  

Title  

/s/
                  D. N. Farr 

Chairman
                  of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President 

D.
                  N. Farr 

/s/
                  W. J. Galvin 

Senior
                  Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
                  Director 

W.
                  J. Galvin 

/s/
                  R. J. Schlueter 

Vice
                  President and Chief Accounting Officer 

R.
                  J. Schlueter 

/s/
                  A. A. Busch III 

Director 

A.
                  A. Busch III 

/s/
                  D. C. Farrell 

Director 

D.
                  C. Farrell 

/s/
                  C. Fernandez G. 

Director 

C.
                  Fernandez G. 

/s/
                  A. F. Golden 

Director 

A.
                  F. Golden 

/s/
                  H. Green 

Director 

H.
                  Green 

/s/
                  R. B. Horton 

Director 

R.
                  B. Horton 

/s/
                  W. R. Johnson 

Director 

W.
                  R. Johnson 

/s/
                  V. R. Loucks, Jr. 

Director 

V.
                  R. Loucks, Jr. 

/s/
                  J. B. Menzer 

Director 

J.
                  B. Menzer 

/s/
                  C. A. Peters 

Director 

C.
                  A. Peters 

/s/
                  J. W. Prueher 

Director 

J.
                  W. Prueher 

/s/
                  R. L. Ridgway 

Director 

R.
                  L. Ridgway 

/s/
                  R. L. Stephenson 

Director 

R.
                  L. Stephenson 

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 7
 v132847_ex31.htm

Exhibit
      31  

Certification

I,
      D. N.
      Farr, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President, Emerson
      Electric Co., certify that:    

1.  I
      have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
      Co.; 

2.  Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
      for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

a)  Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
      over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)  Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
      directors:    

a)  All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and 

b)  Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date:
                November 24, 2008 

/s/
                D. N. Farr 

D.
                N. Farr 

Chairman
                of the Board,  

Chief
                Executive Officer and President 

Emerson
                Electric Co. 

Certification

I,
      W. J.
      Galvin, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Emerson
      Electric Co., certify that:  

1.  I
      have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
      Co.; 

2.  Based
      on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
      fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made,
      in
      light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
      with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based
      on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
      for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
      maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules
      13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
      defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      have: 

a)  Designed
      such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
      and
      procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
      information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
      is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
      period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed
      such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
      over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
      reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
      generally accepted accounting principles;  

c)  Evaluated
      the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
      presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
      disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by
      this
      report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed
      in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The
      registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most
      recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
      registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of
      directors:     

a)  All
      significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
      of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
      report financial information; and  

b)  Any
      fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
      who
      have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
      reporting. 

Date:
                November 24, 2008 

/s/
                W. J. Galvin 

W.
                J. Galvin 

Senior
                Executive Vice President and 

Chief
                Financial Officer 

Emerson
                Electric Co. 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 8
 v132847_ex32.htm

Exhibit
      32  

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

      EXCHANGE
      ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND  

      18
      U.S.C.
      SECTION 1350  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on
      Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2008, as filed with the Securities
      and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, D. N. Farr,
      Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company,
      certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b)
      and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:  

(1)  
             
                The
                Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d)
                of
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
                and 

(2)  
             
                The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

/s/
                D. N. Farr 

D. N. Farr 

Chairman of the Board, 

Chief Executive Officer and President 

Emerson Electric Co. 

November 24, 2008 

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO  

      EXCHANGE
      ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND  

      18
      U.S.C.
      SECTION 1350  

In
      connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on
      Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2008, as filed with the Securities
      and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, W. J. Galvin,
      Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
      certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b)
      and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that:  

(1)  
               
                  The
                  Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or
                  15(d) of
                  the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2)  
             
                The
                information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
                respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
                Company. 

/s/
                W. J. Galvin 

W. J. Galvin 

Senior Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

November 24, 2008 

</EX-32>

