<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20091123_10-K_edgar_data_32604_0001144204-09-061535_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8207791</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>243872</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>177931</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2545713</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2377275</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2189709</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>62</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001144204-09-061535.hdr.sgml : 20091123

<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20091123165234

ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001144204-09-061535

CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K

PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		44

CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090930

FILED AS OF DATE:		20091123

DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20091123


FILER:


	COMPANY DATA:	

		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMERSON ELECTRIC CO

		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000032604

		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]

		IRS NUMBER:				430259330

		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MO

		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930



	FILING VALUES:

		FORM TYPE:		10-K

		SEC ACT:		1934 Act

		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00278

		FILM NUMBER:		091202224



	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		8000 W FLORISSANT AVE

		STREET 2:		P O BOX 4100

		CITY:			ST LOUIS

		STATE:			MO

		ZIP:			63136

		BUSINESS PHONE:		3145532000



	MAIL ADDRESS:	

		STREET 1:		8000 W. FLORISSANT

		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 4100

		CITY:			ST LOUIS

		STATE:			MO

		ZIP:			63136



	FORMER COMPANY:	

		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EMERSON ELECTRIC MANUFACTUING CO

		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730710




</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HUG4zrShytLez/Dpn+J39lWXCrKgsST7s3SbQTnFOyLCTI+Tb3FlbpibSCrwu0Ci
 z+LZnpM90lyku1697OE9WQ==

 0001144204-09-061535.txt : 20091123

10-K
 1
 v166921_10k.htm

Unassociated Document 

UNITED
STATES 

      SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      Washington,
D.C. 20549 

FORM
10-K 

x  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 

      EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 

For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 

OR 

TRANSITION REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 

      EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934 

For the
transition period from ____________________ to __________________ 

Commission
file number 1-278 

EMERSON
ELECTRIC CO. 

      (Exact
name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant's
telephone number, including area code:  (314) 553-2000  

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title
      of each class 

Name
      of each exchange on 

                    which
      registered 

Common
      Stock of $0.50 par value per share 

New
      York Stock Exchange 

                    Chicago
      Stock Exchange 

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None  

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes  x  No

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes     No  x  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days. Yes  x  No

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on
its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 229.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files) Yes  x  No

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not
be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   x   

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller
reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 

Large
      accelerated filer  x  

Accelerated
      filer     

Non-accelerated
      filer  o  (Do
      not check if a smaller reporting
company)    

Smaller
      reporting company      

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Act). 

      Yes       No  x  

Aggregate
market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant as of
close of business on March 31, 2009: $21.4 billion. 

Common
stock outstanding at October 31, 2009:  752,147,714
shares. 

Documents
Incorporated by Reference 

1.   

Portions
      of Emerson Electric Co. 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders (Parts I and
      II). 

2.   

Portions
      of Emerson Electric Co. Notice of 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and
      Proxy Statement (Part III). 

PART
I 

Item
1.  Business  

Emerson
was incorporated in Missouri in 1890, and has grown from a regional manufacturer
of electric motors and fans into a diversified global technology company. Having
expanded its product lines through internal growth and acquisition, Emerson
today is designing and supplying product technology and delivering engineering
services and solutions in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer
markets around the world. 

Emerson
is organized into the following business segments, based on the nature of the
products and services rendered: 

Process
      Management, providing measurement, control and diagnostic capabilities for
      automated industrial processes producing items such as foods, fuels,
      medicines and power 

Industrial
      Automation, bringing integrated manufacturing solutions to diverse
      industries worldwide 

Network
      Power, providing power and environmental conditioning and reliability to
      help keep telecommunication systems, data networks and critical business
      applications continuously operating 

Climate
      Technologies, enhancing household and commercial comfort as well as food
      safety and energy efficiency through air-conditioning and refrigeration
      technology 

Appliance
      and Tools, providing uniquely designed motors for a broad range of
      applications, appliances and integrated appliance solutions, tools for
      both professionals and homeowners, and home and commercial storage
      systems 

Sales,
earnings before interest and income taxes, and total assets attributable to each
segment for the three years ended September 30, 2009, are set forth in Note 16
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2009 Annual Report, which
note is hereby incorporated by reference. Sales by segment in 2009 were Process
Management 29 percent, Industrial Automation 17 percent, Network Power 25
percent, Climate Technologies 15 percent, and Appliance and Tools 14 percent.
Sales by geographic destination in 2009 were United States 45 percent, Europe 21
percent, Asia 21 percent and other regions 13 percent. Information with respect
to acquisition and divestiture activities and rationalization of operations by
Emerson is set forth in Notes 3 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the 2009 Annual Report, which notes are hereby incorporated by
reference. 

PROCESS
MANAGEMENT 

The
Process Management segment offers customers product technology as well as
engineering and project management services for precision control, monitoring
and asset optimization of oil and gas reservoirs and plants that produce power
or that process or treat such items as oil, natural gas and petrochemicals; food
and beverages; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals; and municipal water supplies.
This array of products and services helps customers optimize their plant
capabilities in the areas of plant safety and reliability, and product quality
and output. In 2009, sales by geographic destination for this segment were
United States 33 percent, Europe 22 percent, Asia 23 percent and other regions
22 percent. 

2 

Process
Management Systems and Software 

Process
Management systems and software control plant processes by collecting and
analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and then using that
information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware
for maximum product quality and process efficiency. Software capabilities also
include upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and modeling for production
optimization. Emerson s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to
support a mobile workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide
location tracking of people and assets, enable video monitoring and communicate
with wireless field devices, thereby increasing the information available to
operators. 

Measurement
and Analytical Instrumentation 

Measurement
instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a
process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, or rate and amount of
flow, and communicates this information to the control system. Measurement
technologies provided by Emerson include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic
flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultralow-flow fluid
measurement, temperature sensors and radar-based tank gauging. Emerson
measurement products are also often used in custody transfer applications, such
as the transfer of gasoline from a storage tank to a tanker truck, where precise
metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset
management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase
meters, wetgas meters, downhold gauges and corrosion/erosion
instruments. 

Analytical
instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and
emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental
compliance. Emerson s analytical technologies include process gas
chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid
analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH,
conductivity and water quality. 

Emerson
also provides these same technologies with wireless communication capability.
This allows customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not
measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the
cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants. 

Valves,
Actuators and Regulators 

Control
valves respond to commands from the control system by continuously and precisely
modulating the flow of process fluids to provide maximum process efficiency and
product quality. Emerson provides sliding stem valves, rotary valves, butterfly
valves and related valve actuators and controllers. Emerson also provides a line
of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce the
pressure of fluids such as natural gas and liquid petroleum gas for transfer
from high-pressure supply lines to lower pressure systems. 

PlantWeb    Digital
Plant Architecture 

Emerson s
PlantWeb   digital
plant architecture combines the technologies described above with the advantages
of  intelligent  plant devices (valves and measurement instruments that have
advanced diagnostic capabilities), open communication standards (non-proprietary
wired and wireless digital protocols allowing the plant devices and the control
system to  talk  with one another) and integrated modular software, not only to
control the process better but also to collect and analyze valuable information
about plant assets and processes. This capability gives customers the ability to
detect or predict changes in equipment and process performance and the impact
they can have on plant operations. The PlantWeb   architecture
provides the insight to improve plant availability and safety, and also
furnishes a platform to continually improve asset management and standards
compliance, and to reduce startup, operations and maintenance
costs. 

Industry
Services and Solutions 

Emerson s
array of process automation and asset optimization services can improve
automation project implementation time and costs, increase process availability
and productivity, and reduce total cost of ownership. Global industry centers
offer engineering and project management services to help customers extract
maximum performance and reliability from their process equipment and automation
assets. These centers serve industries such as oil and gas, pulp and paper,
chemical, power, food and beverage, and life sciences. They also assist
customers in diagnosing equipment problems and plant
inefficiencies. 

3 

Distribution 

The
principal worldwide distribution channel for the Process Management segment is a
direct sales force, although a network of independent sales representatives, and
to a lesser extent, independent distributors purchasing these products for
resale are also utilized. The majority of sales in the United States are made
through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent
sales representatives. In Europe and Asia, sales are almost exclusively made
through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent
sales representatives and distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Process Management segment include Emerson Process
Management, AMS Suite, Baumann, Bettis, Bristol, CSI, Damcos, Daniel, DeltaV,
El-O-Matic, Enable, Epro, Fisher, Go Switch, Guardian, Micro Motion, Ovation,
PlantWeb, RMS, ROC, Rosemount, Roxar, Smart Process, SureService, Tescom,
TopWorx and Valvetop. 

INDUSTRIAL
AUTOMATION 

The
Industrial Automation segment provides integrated manufacturing solutions to our
customers at the source of manufacturing their own products. Products include
motors, power transmission solutions, alternators, fluid controls and materials
joining equipment. Through these offerings, Emerson brings technology and
enhanced quality to the customer s final product. In 2009, sales by geographic
destination for this segment were United States 39 percent, Europe 39 percent,
Asia 13 percent and other regions 9 percent. 

Motors
and Drives 

Emerson
provides a broad line of drives and electric motors that are used in a wide
variety of manufacturing operations and products, including production assembly
lines, escalators in shopping malls and supermarket checkout stations. Products
in this category include alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC)
electronic variable speed drives, servo motors, pump motors, drive control
systems, integral horsepower motors (1 HP and above), fractional horsepower
motors (less than 1 HP) and gear drives. 

Power
Transmission 

Emerson s
power transmission products include belt and chain drives, helical and worm
gearing, gear motors, motor sheaves, pulleys, mounted and unmounted bearings,
couplings, chains and sprockets. They are used to transmit power mechanically in
a wide range of manufacturing and material handling operations and products. Our
design and application experience enable us to provide both standard and
customized automation and power transmission solutions to our
customers. 

Power
Generation 

Emerson
provides alternators (low, medium and high voltage) for use in diesel or gas
powered generator sets, as well as high frequency alternators, AC
motor/generator sets, traction generators and wind power
generators. 

Fluid
Power and Fluid Control 

Products
in this category control and power the flow of fluids (liquids and gases) in
manufacturing operations such as automobile assembly, food processing, textile
manufacturing and petrochemical processing. They include solenoid and pneumatic
valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders, air preparation
equipment, and pressure, vacuum and temperature switches. 

4 

Materials
Joining and Precision Cleaning 

Emerson
supplies both plastics joining technologies and equipment, and metal welding and
joining processes to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including
automotive, medical devices and toys. The Company also provides precision
cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial
manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment;
linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate welding,
spin welding, and laser welding; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning
systems. 

Electrical
Distribution 

Emerson s
majority-owned EGS Electrical Group joint venture with SPX Corporation
manufactures a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying
electrical distribution devices. These products include conduit and cable
fittings, plugs and receptacles, industrial lighting, and enclosures and
controls. Products in this category are used in hazardous, industrial,
commercial and construction environments, such as oil and gas drilling and
production sites, pulp and paper mills and petrochemical plants. 

Distribution 

On a
worldwide basis, the primary distribution channel for the Industrial Automation
segment is through direct sales forces. Most products sold worldwide to original
equipment manufacturers are through a direct sales force. Independent
distributors constitute the next significant sales channel, mostly to reach end
users; and, to a lesser extent, independent sales representatives are utilized,
particularly for electrical distribution products in the United
States. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Industrial Automation segment include Emerson
Industrial Automation, Appleton, ASCO, ASCO Joucomatic, ASCO Numatics, Branson
Ultrasonics, Browning, Control Techniques, Emerson Power Transmission, Kato
Engineering, Kop-Flex, Leroy Somer, McGill, Morse, O-Z/Gedney, System Plast and
Trident. 

NETWORK
POWER 

Emerson s
Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains products
providing  grid to chip  electric power conditioning, power reliability and
environmental control for telecommunications networks, data centers and other
critical applications. Products in this segment include power systems, embedded
power supplies, precision cooling and inbound power systems, along with 24-hour
service. In 2009, sales by geographic destination for this segment were United
States 39 percent, Europe 17 percent, Asia 33 percent and other regions 11
percent. 

Power
Systems 

Emerson
supplies uninterruptible AC and DC power systems, which provide reliable,
conditioned power to telecommunication networks, data centers and other critical
equipment in the event of a blackout or line surges and spikes. Power Systems 
products range from stand-alone units to complete systems incorporating
rectifiers, distribution units, surge protection, batteries and system
supervision. 

Embedded
Power 

Embedded
power supplies are installed by original equipment manufacturers to convert or
condition power for microprocessors and peripherals in a wide range of
telecommunication, health care, computer and industrial applications using
standard or custom AC/DC or DC/DC designs. They are also used in consumer
products, in the form of chargers for mobile phones and power adaptors in ink
jet printers. 

5 

Embedded
Computing 

Embedded
Computing designs and develops embedded computer systems for original equipment
manufacturers and systems integrators serving telecommunications, defense,
aerospace, medical and industrial automation end markets. Products range from
communication platforms, blades and modules to enabling software and
professional services. 

Precision
Cooling 

Emerson s
precision cooling products provide temperature and humidity control for
computers, telecommunications and other sensitive equipment. These products
range from 14,000 to 4 million BTUs in capacity and are available in up flow,
down flow and overhead configurations. 

Inbound
Power Systems 

Emerson
inbound power technology provides reliable power systems which automatically
transfer critical application loads from a utility to emergency backup
generators in the event of a blackout or brownout. Products include automatic
transfer switches, paralleling and synchronizing gear and related distribution
equipment and control systems. 

Connectivity
Solutions 

Emerson s
connectivity products serve the needs of the wireless communications, telephony
and data network, CATV, defense, security systems and health care industries and
other industrial customers globally with a broad range of radio frequency,
microwave and fiber optic interconnect components and assemblies. 

Service
and Site Operations 

Emerson
staffs Energy Operation Centers in more than 30 countries, and deploys field
service personnel worldwide to assist customers in managing their network
support systems. Our services include on-site operations management, energy
consumption monitoring, preventive maintenance, electrical testing, remote
monitoring and management, and 24-hour service capability. 

Distribution 

The
Network Power segment sells primarily through worldwide direct sales force
networks, particularly in Europe and Asia. The remainder of sales is handled by
independent sales representatives, particularly in the United States, and
independent distributors. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Network Power segment include Emerson Network Power,
Aperture, Artesyn, ASCO Power Technologies, Astec, Engineered Endeavors, Kn rr,
Liebert, Liebert Services, Netspan, Netsure, Semflex, Stratos and
Trompeter. 

CLIMATE
TECHNOLOGIES 

The
Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for all areas of the
climate control industry, including residential, commercial and industrial
heating and air conditioning, and commercial and industrial refrigeration. Our
technology enables homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating,
air-conditioning, and refrigeration systems for improved control and lower
energy bills. This segment also digitally controls and remotely monitors
refrigeration units in grocery stores and other food distribution outlets to
enhance freshness and food safety. In 2009, sales by geographic destination for
this segment were United States 56 percent, Europe 15 percent, Asia 18 percent
and other regions 11 percent. 

6 

Residential,
Commercial and Industrial Heating and Air Conditioning 

Emerson
provides a full range of heating and air-conditioning products that help reduce
operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of
buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll air-conditioning
compressors, including an ultra-efficient residential scroll compressor with two
stages of cooling capacity which runs at full capacity only during the hottest
time periods; standard and programmable thermostats; monitoring equipment and
electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas valves for
furnaces and water heaters; nitride ignition systems for furnaces; sensors and
thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and
controls. 

Commercial
and Industrial Refrigeration 

Emerson s
technology is incorporated into equipment to refrigerate food and beverages in
supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations and refrigerated
trucks and transport containers. Our refrigeration products are also used in a
wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food
processing and cold storage. These products include compressors; precision flow
controls; system diagnostics and controls that provide precise temperature
management; and environmental control systems. 

Services
and Solutions 

Emerson
services and solutions enable customers to optimize the performance of retail
facilities including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and
food services facilities. By providing expertise in air conditioning,
refrigeration and lighting control, Emerson performs as a complete facility
manager for its customers. The Company s expertise allows customers to reduce
energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility uptime. In
addition to industry-leading controls, products include commissioning services,
monitoring services, facility design and project management. 

Distribution 

Climate
Technologies segment sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and
end users, are made predominately through worldwide direct sales force networks.
The remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks
throughout the world. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Climate
Technologies, Clive Samuels   Associates, Computer Process Controls,
Copeland, Design Services Network, Dixell, Emerson Climate Technologies
Distribution Services, Emerson Climate Technologies Educational Services,
Emerson Retail Services, Fusite, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and
White-Rodgers. 

APPLIANCE
AND TOOLS 

Emerson s
Appliance and Tools segment includes a broad range of products and solutions in
motors, appliances and components, tools and storage. In 2009, sales by
geographic destination for this segment were United States 82 percent, Europe 5
percent, Asia 4 percent and other regions 9 percent. 

Motors 

Emerson
provides a broad range of electric motors, controls and assemblies from
fractional to several thousand horsepower output. Each of these products is
designed to give our customers the quality, reliability and energy efficiency
needed for their specific applications. Emerson s electric motors are used in a
variety of home appliances. They include variable, fixed and multi-speed motors
used in horizontal and vertical axis washers, dryers and dishwashers. Our motors
are also used in residential and commercial pumps, such as those provided in
spas, pools and golf course irrigation equipment; in industrial and municipal
pumps such as water/wastewater; in HVAC equipment, such as furnaces,
compressors, condenser fans, heat pumps, cooling towers and commercial air
handlers; and in industrial, farming and mining applications, where we offer
products such as explosion-proof motors, paint-free washdown motors and
industrial severe duty motors. 

7 

Appliances
and Appliance Components 

Emerson
provides a number of appliances and appliance technology solutions, ranging from
water valves and controls to heating elements and switches. Our appliance
offering includes residential and commercial garbage disposers and ceiling fans,
instant hot-water dispensers, and compact electric water heaters. Our appliance
solutions provide integrated systems, sub-systems and components for appliances
that include electronic and electromechanical controls for washers, dryers,
dishwashers, refrigerators and other home appliances as well as heating elements
for dishwashers, electric ovens and water heaters. 

Professional
and Do-It-Yourself Tools 

Our
pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install
and repair piping systems. These tools include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe
threading and roll grooving equipment; a time-saving system that joins tubing
through mechanical crimping; drain cleaners; diagnostic systems including
closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment; and tubing
tools. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums,
commercial vacuums, rolling storage boxes, truck work boxes, bolt cutters, and
van and truck ladder racks. Do-it-yourself tools, available at home improvement
retail outlets, include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools,
and wet-dry vacuums. 

Storage
Solutions 

Emerson
provides a wide variety of freestanding, fixed and mobile storage products for
residential, commercial, health care and food service applications. Our products
for the home include wall-mounted and freestanding shelving systems, cabinet and
closet organizers, home office storage, and drawer systems and containers,
available in wire, stainless steel and laminate. Our storage solutions also help
commercial customers utilize space in the most efficient manner. These solutions
include storage and display shelving, stock-picking and kitting carts, cabinets,
totes, bins, workstations, and merchandising and inventory storage racks.
Products provided to the health care industry assist in medical response and
treatment; they include emergency and operating room carts, medication carts,
polymer and wire shelving systems, and sterile worktables. Our food service
equipment helps meet the storage needs of the food service and hospitality
industries, such as restaurants and hotels. This equipment includes polymer and
wire storage systems, busing carts, pan and tray racks, transport carts and
workstations. 

Distribution 

The
principal worldwide distribution channel for the Appliance and Tools segment is
direct sales forces.  Motors and appliance components and solutions
for original equipment manufacturers are sold almost exclusively worldwide
through direct sales force networks. Independent distributors constitute the
next most significant sales channel, with professional tools sold almost
exclusively worldwide through distributors; and, to a lesser extent, independent
sales representatives are utilized, particularly for storage
solutions. 

Brands 

Service/trademarks
and trade names within the Appliance and Tools segment include Emerson Appliance
Solutions, Emerson Heating Products, Emerson Motor Technologies, Emerson
Professional Tools, Emerson Storage Solutions, ClosetMaid, Digital Appliance
Controls, Emerson, Flo Healthcare, InSinkErator, Knaack, Lionville, Mallory,
MedDispense, METRO, ProTeam, RIDGID, U.S. Electrical Motors and Weather
Guard. 

8 

PRODUCTION 

Emerson
utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal production
operations are metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, welding, plating,
heat treating, painting and assembly. In addition, Emerson uses specialized
production operations, including automatic and semiautomatic testing, automated
material handling and storage, ferrous and nonferrous machining and special
furnaces for heat treating and foundry applications. Management believes the
equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are of modern design
and are well maintained. 

RAW
MATERIALS 

Emerson's
major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron,
electronics, aluminum and brass, and to a lesser extent, plastics and other
petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson has multiple sources of supply for each of
its major requirements and is not significantly dependent on any one or a few
suppliers. Although recent high prices for some raw materials have caused
pricing pressures for some of our businesses, the raw materials and various
purchased components required for the Company s products have generally been
available in sufficient quantities. 

PATENTS,
TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES 

The
Company has many patents, trademarks and licenses obtained over a number of
years which expire at various dates in the future. While proprietary
intellectual property is important to the Company, management believes the loss
of any intellectual property right would not materially impact the Company or
any of its segments. 

BACKLOG 

The Company s estimated consolidated order backlog was $4,615
million and $5,518 million at September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Nearly
all of the September 30, 2009 consolidated backlog amount is expected to be
shipped within one year. The estimated backlog by business segment at September
30, 2009 and 2008 follows:

9 

COMPETITION 

Emerson's
businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and the Company
competes based on product performance, quality, service and/or price across the
industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's
competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing
high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single
company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines,
various companies compete in one or more product lines and the number of
competitors varies by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater
sales and assets than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller
companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many
of its product lines. 

RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT 

Costs
associated with Company-sponsored research and development activities were $460
million, $458 million and $397 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

ENVIRONMENT 

The
Company's manufacturing locations generate waste, the treatment, storage,
transportation and disposal of which are subject to federal, state, foreign
and/or local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment.
Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment
or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment has not had a
material effect upon Emerson's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive
position. The Company does not anticipate having material capital expenditures
for environmental control facilities during the next fiscal year. 

EMPLOYEES 

Emerson
and its subsidiaries had an average of approximately 129,000 employees during
2009. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable.
Some of the Company's employees are represented under collective bargaining
agreements, but none of these agreements is considered significant. See Note 5
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2009 Annual Report, which
note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information. 

DOMESTIC
AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS 

International
sales were $11,556 million in 2009, $13,479 million in 2008 and $11,219 million
in 2007, including U.S. exports of $1,290 million, $1,537 million and $1,277
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Although there are additional
risks attendant to foreign operations, such as possible nationalization of
facilities, currency fluctuations and restrictions on the movement of funds,
Emerson's financial position has not been materially affected thereby to date.
See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2009 Annual
Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information
with respect to foreign operations. 

INTERNET
ACCESS 

Emerson's
Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without
charge through Emerson's website on the Internet as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows:
www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, SEC Filings. Information on Emerson s
website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. 

The
information set forth under,  Item 1A.  Risk Factors  is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

10 

Item 1A.  Risk
Factors  

Investing
in our securities involves risks. We may amend or supplement the risk factors
described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC in the
future. 

We
Operate In Businesses That Are Subject To Competitive Pressures That Could
Affect Prices Or Demand For Our Products 

Our
businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the
basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the
industries and markets served. A significant element of our competitive strategy
is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality products
at the best relevant global cost. Some of our competitors have greater sales,
assets and financial resources than our Company. Competitive pressures could
affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our profit margins
and/or resulting in a loss of market share. 

Our
Operating Results Depend In Part On Continued Successful Research, Development
And Marketing Of New And/Or Improved Products And Services, And There Can Be No
Assurance That We Will Continue To Successfully Introduce New Products And
Services 

The
success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and
continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying
degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand,
which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and
increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. We
may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production
and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our
operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the
investments required to bring new products and services to market. 

We
Engage In Acquisitions, And May Encounter Difficulties In Integrating These
Businesses And Therefore We May Not Realize The Anticipated Benefits Of The
Acquisitions 

We are a
company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions.
In the past several years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into
joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and
may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will
depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these
transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter
difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing
strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of
benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the
foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of
operations. 

Access
To Funding Through The Capital Markets Is Essential To The Execution Of Our
Business Plan And If We Are Unable To Maintain Such Access We Could Experience A
Material Adverse Effect On Our Business And Financial Results 

Our
ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance
maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient
bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital
markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other
debt instruments, or affect the Company s ability to access those markets. If we
are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a
material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If our customers,
suppliers and financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to
meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely
impacted. 

11 

We
Use A Variety Of Raw Materials And Components In Our Businesses, And Significant
Shortages Or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs And Adversely
Impact The Competitive Positions Of Our Products 

Our major
requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics,
aluminum and brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and other petroleum-based
chemicals. Emerson has multiple sources of supply for each of its major
requirements and is not significantly dependent on any one or a few suppliers.
Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected
businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their
products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to
reduce price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely
affect our operating results. 

Our
Operations Depend On Production Facilities Throughout The World, A Majority Of
Which Are Located Outside The United States And Subject To Increased Risks Of
Disrupted Production Causing Delays In Shipments And Loss Of Customers And
Revenue 

We manage
businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are
located outside the United States. Serving a global customer base requires that
we place more production in emerging markets to capitalize on market
opportunities and maintain our best-cost position. Our international production
facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor
strike, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns,
particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such
occurrences. 

Our
manufacturing facilities abroad also may be more susceptible to changes in laws
and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our
domestic facilities. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of
products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not
adequately compensate us. 

Our
Substantial Sales Abroad Subject Us To Economic Risk As Our Results Of
Operations May Be Adversely Affected By Foreign Currency Fluctuations And
Changes In Local Government Regulations And Policies 

We sell,
manufacture, engineer, and purchase products in overseas markets. A significant
portion of our sales is outside the United States, and we expect sales from
non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total
sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local
government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and
trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of
earnings. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time
and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we
monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to reduce this exposure through
hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating
results. 

Recessions,
Adverse Market Conditions Or Downturns In The End Markets We Serve May
Negatively Impact Segment Revenues And Operating Results 

Segment
revenues, operating results and cash flows have varied in the past and may be
exposed to significant volatility from quarter to quarter in the future due to
changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions in the
end markets we serve. These changes could adversely impact overall sales,
operating results and cash flows, which in turn could trigger impairment of
goodwill or other long-lived assets due to the fair value of such assets falling
below the Company s carrying value. Moreover, during economic downturns we may
undertake more extensive rationalization actions and therefore incur higher
rationalization expense during such periods. If our rationalization actions are
not sufficiently effective or if we must incur rationalization costs beyond what
we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated operating
results. 

12 

We
Are Subject To Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely
Impact Our Operating Results 

We are,
and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims,
including those involving product liability and environmental matters, several
of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the
inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing
litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse
impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to
environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment,
and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or
liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental
laws. 

Item
1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments  

None. 

Item 2.
Properties  

At
September 30, 2009, Emerson had approximately 250 manufacturing locations
worldwide, of which approximately 165 were located outside the United States,
primarily in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia, Canada and Latin America.
The approximate numbers of manufacturing locations by business segment are:
Process Management, 60; Industrial Automation, 80; Network Power, 40; Climate
Technologies, 35; and Appliance and Tools, 35. The majority of the locations are
owned, with the remainder occupied under lease. The Company considers its
facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are
used. 

Item 3. Legal
Proceedings  

The
information regarding legal proceedings set forth in Note 12 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2009 Annual Report is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

Item 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

There
were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter ended
September 30, 2009. 

Executive
Officers of the Registrant 

The
following sets forth certain information as of November 23, 2009 with respect to
Emerson's executive officers. The Fiscal Year column indicates the first year
the executive served as an officer of the Company. These officers have been
elected or appointed to terms which expire February 2, 2010: 

*Also
chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 

13 

There are
no family relationships among any of the executive officers and
directors. 

David N.
Farr has been Chief Executive Officer since October 2000 and was also appointed
Chairman of the Board in September 2004 and appointed President in November
2005. Craig W. Ashmore was appointed Executive Vice President - Planning and
Development in October 2009.  Prior to his current position, Mr.
Ashmore was Senior Vice President - Planning and Development from October 2004
to September 2009 and Group Vice President from 2003 to 2004. Frank J.
Dellaquila has been Senior Vice President - Finance and Controller since August
2009. Prior to his current position, Mr. Dellaquila was Senior Vice President -
Acquisitions and Development from 2004 to 2009. Walter J. Galvin was appointed
Vice Chairman in October 2009 and has been Chief Financial Officer since 1993.
Prior to his current position, Mr. Galvin was Senior Executive Vice President
from October 2004 to September 2009 and Executive Vice President from February
2000 to October 2004. Edward L. Monser was appointed Chief Operating Officer in
November 2001. Charles A. Peters has been Senior Executive Vice President
since October 2000. Richard J. Schlueter has been Vice President Accounting
since 1999 and was also appointed Chief Accounting Officer in February 2003.
Frank L. Steeves was appointed Senior Vice President, Secretary and General
Counsel in March 2007, prior to which he was Vice Chairman of the
Milwaukee-based law firm of von Briesen   Roper, S.C., which has provided
legal services to the Company since 2001. Mr. Steeves joined von Briesen and
Roper as a partner in 2001, and became Vice Chairman of the firm in
2004. 

PART
II 

Item 5. Market for
Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
Equity Securities  

The
information regarding the market for the Company's common stock, quarterly
market price ranges and dividend payments set forth in Note 18 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2009 Annual Report is hereby
incorporated by reference. There were approximately 26,315 stockholders of
record at September 30, 2009. 

The
Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 80 million
shares under the May 2008 program. No shares were purchased during the quarter
ended September 30, 2009. The maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased
under this program was     51.4 million as of September 30,
2009. 

14 

Item 6. Selected Financial
Data  

Years
ended September 30 

        (dollars
in millions, except per share amounts) 

Information
presented reflects the December 2006 two-for-one stock split. The European
appliance motor and pump business for the 2005-2008 periods, and the Brooks
Instrument flow meters and flow controls unit for 2008 only, are classified as
discontinued operations. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the 2009 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by
reference, for information regarding the Company's acquisition and divestiture
activities. 

Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  

Information
appearing under  Results of Operations,   Financial Position, Capital Resources
and Liquidity,   Critical Accounting Policies  and the "Safe Harbor Statement"
in the 2009 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. 

Fiscal 2010
Outlook  

Fiscal
year 2009 was a challenging year, but Emerson believes it is well positioned
moving into the uncertain 2010 economic environment. Underlying sales for fiscal
year 2010 are expected to decline in the range of negative 5 percent to negative
7 percent, which excludes an estimated favorable increase of 7 percent to 5
percent due to foreign currency translation, completed and assumed future
acquisitions and potential divestitures. Reported sales for the year are
forecast to be in the range of positive 2 percent to negative 2 percent compared
with 2009 sales of $20.9 billion. The Company also expects the operating
profit margin to be flat to slightly down for the full year. There can be no
assurance when or if potential future acquisitions or divestitures will be
completed and what impact future exchange rate changes will have. 

Non-GAAP Financial
Measures  

To
supplement Emerson s financial information presented in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses certain
 non-GAAP financial measures  as such term is defined in Regulation G under the
rules of the SEC, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and
prospects for the future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical
measure of a company s operating performance, financial position or cash flows
that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most
directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
For example, non-GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain unique items
such as acquisitions, divestitures, one-time gains and losses or items outside
of management s control, such as foreign currency exchange rates. Management
believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and
analysts useful insight into Emerson s financial position and operating
performance. 

15 

Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and
divestitures during the periods presented, and fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates, are provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons
of sales growth by excluding these unique items that impact the overall  comparability.
Underlying sales should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to,
net sales as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

Operating
profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and
administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating
profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term operational
performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating
profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance
and actions required to improve profitability. Operating profit and operating
profit margin should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to,
pretax earnings or profit margin as determined in accordance with U.S.
GAAP. 

Earnings,
earnings per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding
one-time gains and losses provide additional insight into the underlying,
ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period-to-period
comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Given the unique
nature of these items, management believes that presenting earnings, earnings
per share, return on equity and return on total capital excluding them is more
representative of the Company s operational performance and may be more useful
for investors. However, these financial measures are not intended to replace
earnings, earnings per share, return on equity or return on total capital as
determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

Free cash
flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the
Company s cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital
assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations.
Operating cash flow adds back non-cash depreciation expense to earnings and
thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures.
Although   management
believes that free cash flow is useful to both management and investors as a
measure of the Company s ability to generate cash, it is not intended to replace
operating cash flow as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

Overall,
while Emerson believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in
evaluating the Company, this information should be considered as supplemental in
nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial
information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Further, the calculation of these
non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled
financial measures presented by other companies and therefore they may not be
comparable among companies. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Information
appearing under "Financial Instruments" in the 2009 Annual Report is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

Item 8. Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data  

The
consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the
report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2009 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by
reference. 

Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure  

None. 

16 

Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures  

Emerson
maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which is designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports
filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to management,
including the Company s certifying officers, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on an evaluation performed, the
Company's certifying officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of September 30, 2009 to provide reasonable
assurance of achieving these objectives. 

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the Company's disclosure controls
and procedures will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the Company
and its consolidated subsidiaries to report material information otherwise
required to be set forth in the Company's reports. 

There was
no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the
quarter ended September 30, 2009, that has materially affected, or is reasonably
likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial
reporting.  

Management s
report on internal control over financial reporting, and the related report of
the Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm, appearing in the 2009 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by
reference. 

Item 9B. Other
Information  

None. 

PART
III 

Item 10. Directors,
Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Information
regarding nominees and directors appearing under "Nominees and Continuing
Directors" in the Emerson Electric Co. Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders
and Proxy Statement for the February 2010 annual stockholders' meeting (the
"2010 Proxy Statement") is hereby incorporated by reference. Information
regarding executive officers is set forth in Part I of this report. Information
appearing under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the
2010 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding
the Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert appearing under "Board
of Directors and Committees" in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated
by reference. 

Emerson
has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to the Company's chief executive
officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and controller; has
posted such Code of Ethics on its Internet website; and intends to satisfy the
disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting such information
on its Internet website. Emerson has adopted Charters for its Audit Committee,
Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a
Code of Business Ethics for directors, officers and employees, which are
available on its Internet website and are available in print to any shareholder
who requests them. Emerson has also adopted Corporate Governance Principles and
Practices, which are available on its Internet website and are available in
print to any shareholder who requests them. The Company's Internet website may
be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, Corporate
Governance. 

17 

Item 11. Executive
Compensation  

Information
appearing under  Board of Directors and Committees Compensation Committee, 
 Board of Directors and Committees Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee,   Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation  (including, but
not limited to, the information set forth under  Compensation Discussion and
Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report  and  Summary Compensation Table ) and
 Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in the 2010 Proxy
Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

The
information contained in  Compensation Committee Report  shall not be deemed to
be  filed  with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), except to the extent that
Emerson specifically incorporates such information into future filings under the
Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. 

Item 12. Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters  

The
information regarding beneficial ownership of shares by nominees and continuing
directors, named executive officers and by all directors and executive officers
as a group appearing under "Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers"
in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Information
regarding equity compensation plans appearing under  Equity Compensation Plan
Information  in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.
Information regarding stock option plans and incentive shares plans set forth in
Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2009 Annual Report
is hereby incorporated by reference. 

Item 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence  

Information
appearing under  Director Independence  in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

Item 14. Principal
Accounting Fees and Services  

Information
appearing under "Fees Paid to KPMG LLP" in the 2010 Proxy Statement is hereby
incorporated by reference. 

18 

PART
IV 

Item 15. Exhibits and
Financial Statement Schedules  

A) Documents
filed as a part of this report: 

1. 

The
      consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and
      the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2009 Annual
      Report.  

2.  

Financial
      Statement Schedules 

All
      schedules are omitted because they are not required, not applicable or the
      information is given in the financial statements or notes thereto
      contained in the 2009 Annual
Report.  

3. 

Exhibits
      (Listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in
      Regulation S-K). 

3(a)

Restated
      Articles of Incorporation of Emerson Electric Co., incorporated by
      reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
      31, 2001, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 3(a); Termination of Designated Shares
      of Stock and Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series
      B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. 1998 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
      3(a). 

4(a) 

Indenture
      dated as of April 17, 1991, between Emerson Electric Co. and The Boatmen's
      National Bank of St. Louis, Trustee, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-62545,
      Exhibit 4.1. 

No
      other long-term debt instruments are filed since the total amount of
      securities authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10 percent
      of the total assets of Emerson Electric Co. and its subsidiaries on a
      consolidated basis. Emerson Electric Co. agrees to furnish a copy of such
      instruments to the SEC upon
request. 

10(c)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Continuing Compensation Plan for
      Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric
      Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
  10(c). 

19 

10(d)* 

Amended
      and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors and
      Forms of Payment Election Form, Initial Notice of Election and Notice of
      Election Change, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007
      Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
10(d). 

10(e)* 

First
      Amendment to the Emerson Electric Co. Supplemental Executive Retirement
      Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1999 Form 10-K,
      File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and Form of Change of Control Election,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October
      1, 2004, Exhibit 10.9 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as
      of December 31, 2004). 

10(f)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Pension Restoration Plan and Forms of
      Participation Award Letter, Acceptance of Award and Benefit Election Forms
      (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1, 2005),
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No.
      1-278, Exhibit 10(f). 

10(g)* 

Fifth
      Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Savings Investment Plan,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended March 31, 1999, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(j), and Form of
      Participation Agreement and Form of Annual Election, incorporated by
      reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
      10.8 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as of December 31,
      2004). 

10(h)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Savings Investment Restoration Plan and
      Forms of Participation Agreement, Annual Election Form and Payment
      Election Form (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1,
      2005), incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K,
      File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and First Amendment to Emerson Electric Co.
      Savings Investment Restoration Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, File No.
      1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(i)* 

Amended
      and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Annual Incentive Plan and Form of
      Acceptance of Award, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
      2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit
10(i). 

10(k)* 

1998
      Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1998
      Proxy Statement dated December 12, 1997, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, and
      Amendment No. 1 thereto, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co.
      2000 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(l), Form of Notice of Grant of
      Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Incentive Stock Option
      Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K
      dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.1, and Form of Notice of Grant of Stock
      Options and Option Agreement and Form of Nonqualified Stock Option
      Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K
      dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
10.2. 

20 

10(l)* 

2001
      Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2002
      Proxy Statement dated December 12, 2001, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, Form
      of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of
      Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.3, and Form of
      Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of
      Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson
      Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit
  10.4. 

10(m)* 

Emerson
      Electric Co. Description of Split Dollar Life Insurance Program
      Transition, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K
      dated August 31, 2005, Exhibit
10.1. 

10(n)* 

Emerson
      Electric Co. Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2005 Proxy Statement
      dated December 8, 2004, Appendix B, and Form of Award Letter under the
      Emerson Electric Co. Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors,
      incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated February
      1, 2005, Exhibit 10.2. 

10(p)* 

Description
      of Named Executive Officer Compensation, incorporated by reference to
      Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004,
      Exhibit 10.1. 

12     

Ratio
      of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

13 

Portions of Emerson
      Electric Co. Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended  September
      30, 2009, incorporated by reference
      herein.    

21 

Subsidiaries
      of Emerson Electric Co. 

23 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm. 

21 

101 

Attached
      as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following documents formatted in
      XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements
      of Earnings for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009, (ii)
      Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2008 and 2009, (iii)
      Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the years ended
      September 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009, and (v) Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended September 30,
      2009.  In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL
      related information in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K
      shall not be deemed to be  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the
      Exchange Act, and shall not be deemed  filed  or part of any registration
      statement or prospectus for purposes of Section 11 or 12 under the
      Securities Act or the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to liability
      under those sections, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific
      reference in such filing. 

*
Management contract or compensatory plan. 

22 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

EMERSON
      ELECTRIC CO. 

By 

/s/ W. J.
      Galvin            

W.
      J. Galvin 

Vice
      Chairman 

and
      Chief Financial
Officer 

Date:
November 23, 2009 

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below on November 23, 2009, by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated. 

Signature  

Title  

/s/ D. N. Farr  

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and 

D. N. Farr 

President 

/s/ W. J. Galvin  

Vice Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and Director 

W. J. Galvin 

/s/ F. J. Dellaquila  

Senior Vice President   Finance and Controller 

F. J. Dellaquila 

/s/ R. J. Schlueter  

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 

R. J. Schlueter 

*  

Director 

C. A. H. Boersig 

*  

Director 

A. A. Busch III 

*  

Director 

C. Fernandez G. 

*  

Director 

A. F. Golden 

23 

*  

Director 

H.
      Green 

*  

Director 

R.
      B. Horton 

*  

Director 

W.
      R. Johnson 

*  

Director 

V.
      R. Loucks, Jr. 

*  

Director 

J.
      B. Menzer 

*  

Director 

C.
      A. Peters 

*  

Director 

J.
      W. Prueher 

*  

Director 

R.
      L. Ridgway 

*  

Director 

R.
      L. Stephenson 

*
      By   

/s/  

W. J. Galvin  

W.
      J. Galvin 

Attorney-in-fact 

24 

INDEX TO
EXHIBITS  

Exhibits
are listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in
Regulation S-K. 

Exhibit No.  

Exhibit  

12 

Ratio
      of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

13 

Portions
      of Emerson Electric Co. Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
      September 30, 2009, incorporated by reference herein 

21 

Subsidiaries
      of Emerson Electric Co. 

23 

Consent
      of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

24 

Power
      of Attorney 

31 

Certifications
      pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a   14(a) 

32 

Certifications
      pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a   14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section
      1350 

101 

Attached
      as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following documents formatted in
      XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements
      of Earnings for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009, (ii)
      Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2008 and 2009, (iii)
      Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the years ended
      September 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash
      Flows for the years ended September 30, 2007, 2008 and 2009, and (v) Notes
      to Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended September 30,
      2009.  In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL
      related information in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K
      shall not be deemed to be  filed  for purposes of Section 18 of the
      Exchange Act, and shall not be deemed  filed  or part of any registration
      statement or prospectus for purposes of Section 11 or 12 under the
      Securities Act or the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to liability
      under those sections, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific
      reference in such
filing. 

See
Item 15(A) 3. for a list of exhibits incorporated by
reference. 

25 

<EX-12>
 2
 v166921_ex12.htm

Exhibit
12 

        EMERSON
ELECTRIC CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

        COMPUTATION
OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

         (Dollars in
Millions)  

(a)  

Represents   pretax   earnings from continuing
      operations and minority interests in the   pretax   income of consolidated
      subsidiaries   having   fixed
      charges.  

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 v166921_ex13.htm

Unassociated Document 

Exhibit 13  

FINANCIAL
REVIEW  

Report of Management  

The Company s management is responsible
for the integrity and accuracy of the financial statements. Management believes
that the financial statements for the three years ended September 30, 2009 have
been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
appropriate in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements,
management makes informed judgments and estimates where necessary to reflect the
expected effects of events and transactions that have not been completed. The
Company s disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information
required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to
management and reported within the required time periods.  

In meeting its responsibility for the
reliability of the financial statements, management relies on a system of
internal accounting control. This system is designed to provide reasonable
assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are executed in
accordance with management s authorization and recorded properly to permit the
preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. The design of this system recognizes that errors or
irregularities may occur and that estimates and judgments are required to assess
the relative cost and expected benefits of the controls. Management believes
that the Company s internal accounting controls provide reasonable assurance
that errors or irregularities that could be material to the financial statements
are prevented or would be detected within a timely period.  

The Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors, which is composed solely of independent Directors, is responsible for
overseeing the Company s financial reporting process. The Audit Committee meets
with management and the Company s internal auditors periodically to review the
work of each and to monitor the discharge by each of its responsibilities. The
Audit Committee also meets periodically with the independent auditors, who have
free access to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, to discuss the
quality and acceptability of the Company s financial reporting, internal
controls, as well as non-audit-related services.  

The independent auditors are engaged to
express an opinion on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on
procedures that they believe to be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance
that the financial statements contain no material errors and that the Company s
internal controls are effective.  

Management s Report on Internal Control
Over Financial Reporting  

The Company s management is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting for the Company. With the participation of the Chief Executive Officer
and the Chief Financial Officer, management conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework and the criteria established in   Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management
has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of
September 30, 2009.  

The
Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal
control over financial reporting. 

/s/ David N. Farr  

/s/Walter
       J. Galvin  

David N. Farr 

Walter J.
      Galvin  

Chairman of the Board, Chief
      Executive Officer, and President  

Vice
      Chairman and Chief Financial Officer  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

10 

Results of
Operations  

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in
millions, except per share amounts  

OVERVIEW  

Fiscal 2009 was a very challenging year
as a significant decline in gross fixed investment worldwide, particularly for
capital goods and nonresidential construction, as well as housing and consumer
spending, adversely impacted sales and earnings for all of the Company s
business segments. These declines began in the third quarter of fiscal 2008,
continued throughout 2009, and the Company anticipates continued weakness
stemming from these factors for much of fiscal 2010. Given the difficult
economic environment, the Company took aggressive actions and incurred
significant costs to rationalize its businesses to the level appropriate for the
conditions and to improve its cost structure in preparation for the ultimate
recovery. Fiscal 2009 net sales were $20.9 billion, a decrease of 16 percent;
earnings from continuing operations and earnings from continuing operations per
share were $1.7 billion and $2.27, decreases of 30 percent and 27 percent,
respectively; net earnings and net earnings per share were $1.7 billion and
$2.27, decreases of 29 percent and 26 percent, respectively, from fiscal 2008.
Underlying sales declined across all major geographic regions, particularly in
the United States and Europe. Sales in Asia were down slightly but included a 2
percent increase in China. Unfavorable foreign currency translation also
negatively impacted results for the year due to the strength of the U.S. dollar
as compared with 2008. Sales and earnings for fiscal 2009 decreased versus prior
year in all segments, reflecting lower spending and investment by both
businesses and consumers as confidence declined and remained low. Although
operating in a challenging environment, the Company was able to achieve gross
margin consistent with prior year due to the benefits of rationalization actions
and other productivity improvements, as well as higher pricing in certain
markets and materials cost containment. Earnings margins decreased primarily
because of deleverage on lower sales volume and higher rationalization expense.
Despite the economic environment, Emerson s financial position remains strong
and in 2009 the Company generated cash near the same level as the prior year
with operating cash flow of $3.1 billion and free cash flow (operating cash flow
less capital expenditures) of $2.6 billion. Emerson maintains a conservative
financial structure to provide the strength and flexibility necessary to achieve
its strategic objectives.  

NET SALES  

Net sales for fiscal 2009 were $20.9
billion, a decrease of approximately $3.9 billion, or 16 percent, from fiscal
2008. Sales declined across all segments as the Company s businesses continued
to be impacted by the broad slowdown in consumer and capital goods businesses.
Consolidated results reflect an approximate 13 percent ($3,090 million) decrease
in underlying sales (which exclude acquisitions, divestitures and foreign
currency translation), a 4 percent ($933 million) unfavorable impact from
foreign currency translation and a 1 percent ($131 million) contribution from
acquisitions. The underlying sales decrease for fiscal 2009 included an 18
percent decrease in the United States and a 9 percent decrease internationally,
composed of Europe (16 percent), Latin America (7 percent), Middle East/Africa
(6 percent), Asia (2 percent) and Canada (6 percent). The Company estimates that
the underlying sales decline primarily reflects an approximate 14 percent
decline from volume and an approximate 1 percent impact from higher
pricing.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

11 

Net sales for fiscal 2008 were $24.8
billion, an increase of approximately $2.7 billion, or 12 percent, over fiscal
2007, with international sales leading overall growth. Consolidated sales
results reflect increases in four of the Company s five business segments with
an approximate 7 percent ($1,523 million) increase in underlying sales, a 4
percent ($809 million) favorable impact from foreign currency translation and a
1 percent ($344 million) contribution from acquisitions, net of divestitures.
The Network Power, Process Management and Industrial Automation businesses drove
sales growth, while the Appliance and Tools and Climate Technologies businesses
were impacted by the U.S. consumer spending slowdown. The underlying sales
increase for fiscal 2008 was driven by an international sales increase of more
than 10 percent plus a 3 percent increase in the United States. The
international sales increase primarily reflects growth in Asia (17 percent),
Latin America (18 percent), Middle East/Africa (17 percent) and Europe (3
percent). The Company estimates that the underlying sales growth of
approximately 7 percent primarily reflects an approximate 6 percent gain from
volume, aided by penetration gains, and an approximate 1 percent impact from
higher selling prices.  

INTERNATIONAL SALES  

Emerson is a global business for which
international sales have grown over the years and now constitute 55 percent
  of the Company s total
sales. The Company expects this   trend to continue due to faster economic
growth in emerging   markets
in Asia, Latin America and Middle East/Africa.  

International destination sales,
including U.S. exports, decreased approximately 14 percent, to $11.6 billion in
2009. U.S. exports of $1,290 million were down 16 percent compared with 2008,
reflecting declines in Industrial Automation, Network Power, Climate
Technologies and Process Management as these businesses were impacted by lower
volume and the stronger U.S. dollar. International subsidiary sales, including
shipments to the United States, were $10.3 billion in 2009, down 14 percent from
2008. Excluding the 7 percent net unfavorable impact from acquisitions and
foreign currency translation, international subsidiary sales decreased 7 percent
compared with 2008. Underlying destination sales declined 16 percent in Europe;
2 percent overall in Asia, including 2 percent growth in China; 7 percent in
Latin America and 6 percent in Middle East/Africa.  

International destination sales,
including U.S. exports, increased approximately 20 percent, to $13.5 billion in
2008, representing 54 percent of the Company s total sales. U.S. exports of
$1,537 million were up 20 percent compared with 2007, reflecting strong growth
in the Network Power, Process Management and Climate Technologies businesses,
aided by the weaker U.S. dollar as well as the benefit from acquisitions.
Underlying destination sales grew 17 percent in Asia during the year, driven
mainly by 21 percent growth in China, while sales grew 18 percent in Latin
America, 17 percent in Middle East/Africa and 3 percent in Europe. International
subsidiary sales, including shipments to the United States, were $12.0 billion
in 2008, up 19 percent over 2007. Excluding the 8 percent net favorable impact
from acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation, international
subsidiary sales increased 11 percent compared with 2007.  

ACQUISITIONS AND
DIVESTITURES  

The Company acquired Roxar ASA, Trident
Powercraft Private Limited, System Plast S.p.A. and several smaller businesses
during 2009. Roxar supplies measurement solutions and software for reservoir
production optimization, enhanced oil and gas recovery and flow assurance.
Trident Power manufactures and supplies power generating alternators and
associated products. System Plast manufactures engineered modular belts and
custom conveyer components for food processing and packaging industries. Total
cash paid for these businesses was approximately $776 million (net of cash
acquired of approximately $31 million and debt assumed of approximately $230
million). Annualized sales for acquired businesses were approximately $530
million in 2009.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

12 

During the first quarter of fiscal 2010,
the Company entered into a definitive agreement and commenced a tender offer to
acquire Avocent Corporation for approximately $1.2 billion in cash. Avocent is a
leader in delivering information technology operations management solutions that
reduce operating costs, simplify management and increase availability of
critical information technology environments via integrated, centralized
software. Avocent products complement the Network Power segment s power systems,
energy management and precision cooling solutions. The transaction is expected
to be completed in December 2009 and is subject to acceptance of the tender
offer by a majority of Avocent shareholders, customary closing conditions and
regulatory approvals.  

The Company acquired Motorola Inc. s
Embedded Computing business and several smaller businesses during 2008. Embedded
Computing provides communication platforms and enabling software used by
manufacturers of equipment for telecommunications, medical imaging, defense and
aerospace and industrial automation markets. Total cash paid for these
businesses (net of cash and equivalents acquired of approximately $2 million)
was approximately $561 million.  

In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the
Company divested its Brooks Instrument flow meters and flow controls unit, which
had sales for the first quarter of 2008 of $21 million and net earnings of $1
million. Proceeds from the sale of Brooks were $100 million, resulting in a
pretax gain of   $63 million
($42 million after-tax). The net gain on divestiture and Brooks  results
  of operations for fiscal
2008 are classified as discontinued operations; prior year results of operations
were inconsequential. Also in fiscal 2008, the Company received approximately
$101 million from the divestiture of the European appliance motor and pump
business, resulting in a loss of $92 million. The European appliance motor and
pump business had total annual sales of $453 million and $441 million in 2008
and 2007,   respectively and
net earnings, excluding the divestiture loss,   of $7 million in both years. The
divestiture loss and results of operations are classified as discontinued
operations.  

COST OF SALES  

Costs of sales for fiscal 2009 and 2008
were $13.2 billion and $15.7 billion, respectively, while gross profit was $7.7
billion in 2009 compared with $9.1 billion for 2008. The decrease in gross
profit primarily reflects lower sales volume and unfavorable foreign currency
translation. As a percent of net sales, cost of sales was 63.2 percent for both
2009 and 2008, resulting in consistent gross margin of 36.8 percent for both
years. The level gross margin compared with 2008 reflects benefits realized from
rationalization actions and other productivity improvements, materials cost
containment and selective price increases, which were offset by deleverage on
lower sales volume, inventory liquidation and unfavorable product mix. In
addition, due to the economic slowdown the Company s inventory obsolescence
allowance increased approximately $40 million in 2009.  

Costs of sales for fiscal 2007 were
$14.1 billion and cost of sales as a percent of net sales was 63.6 percent.
Gross profit was $8.1 billion for 2007, resulting in a gross profit margin of
36.4 percent. The increase in the gross profit margin in 2008 primarily reflects
leverage on higher sales volume and benefits realized from productivity
improvements, which were partially offset by negative product mix. Higher sales
prices, together with the benefits received from commodity hedging of
approximately $42 million, were more than offset by higher raw material and wage
costs. The increase in the gross profit amount in 2008 primarily reflects higher
sales volume and foreign currency translation, as well as
acquisitions.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
EXPENSES  

Selling, general and administrative
(SG A) expenses for 2009 were $4.5 billion, or 21.7 percent of net sales,
compared with $5.1 billion, or 20.3 percent of net sales for 2008. The $0.6
billion decrease in SG A was primarily due to lower sales volume, benefits
from rationalization, favorable foreign currency translation and a $28 million
decrease in incentive stock compensation expense (see Note 14). The increase in
SG A as a percent of sales was primarily the result of deleverage on lower
sales volume, partially offset by cost reduction actions and the lower incentive
stock compensation expense.  

SG A expenses for 2008 were $5.1
billion, or 20.3 percent of net sales, compared with $4.6 billion, or 20.6
percent of net sales for 2007. The increase of approximately $0.5 billion in
2008 was primarily due to an increase in variable costs on higher sales volume,
acquisitions and foreign currency translation, partially offset by a $103
million decrease in incentive stock compensation (see Note 14). The reduction in
SG A as a percent of sales was primarily the result of lower incentive stock
compensation, leverage on higher sales and benefits realized from cost reduction
actions, particularly   in
the Process Management and Network Power businesses.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

13 

OTHER DEDUCTIONS,
NET  

Other deductions, net were $530 million
in 2009, a $227 million increase from 2008 that primarily reflects $203 million
of incremental rationalization expense. The Company continuously makes
investments in its operations to improve efficiency and remain competitive on a
global basis, and in 2009 incurred costs of $295 million for actions to
rationalize its businesses to the level appropriate for current economic
conditions and improve its cost structure in preparation for the ultimate
economic recovery. The 2009 increase also includes higher intangible asset
amortization of $27 million due to acquisitions, lower nonrecurring gains of $25
million and other items. Gains in 2009 included the sale of an asset for which
the Company received $41 million and recognized a gain of $25 million ($17
million after-tax). See Notes 4 and 5 for further details regarding other
deductions, net and rationalization costs.  

Other deductions, net of $303 million in
2008 represented   a $128
million increase from $175 million in 2007. The increase in 2008 versus 2007
includes a $31 million impairment charge related to the North American appliance
control business, higher intangible asset amortization of $18 million due to
acquisitions, incremental rationalization expense of $17 million, a $12 million
charge for in-process research and development in connection with the Embedded
Computing acquisition, $12 million of incremental foreign currency transaction
losses, lower one-time gains of $10 million and other items. In 2008, the
Company received $54 million and recognized a gain of $39 million ($20 million
after-tax) on the sale of its equity investment in Industrial Motion Control
Holdings, a manufacturer of motion control components for automation equipment,
and also recorded a gain of $18 million related to the sale of a facility.

INTEREST EXPENSE,
NET  

Interest expense, net was $220 million,
$188 million and $228 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase
of $32 million in 2009 was due to lower interest income, driven by lower
worldwide interest rates, and higher average long-term borrowings reflecting a
change in debt mix. The $40 million decrease in interest expense in 2008 was
primarily due to lower interest rates and lower average
borrowings.  

INCOME TAXES  

Income taxes were $693 million, $1,137
million and $964 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, resulting in
effective tax rates of 29 percent, 32 percent and 31 percent. The lower
effective tax rate in 2009 reflects the Company recognizing a benefit from a net
operating loss carryforward at a foreign subsidiary, a credit related to the
repatriation of certain non-U.S. earnings, and a change in the mix of regional
pretax income as operating results declined significantly in the United States
and Europe while declining only slightly in Asia.  

EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING
OPERATIONS  

Earnings from continuing operations were
$1.7 billion for 2009, while earnings from continuing operations per share were
$2.27, decreases of 30 percent and 27 percent, respectively, compared with $2.5
billion and $3.11 for 2008. The earnings decline is due to decreases in all of
the Company s business segments and reflects lower sales volume, increased
rationalization expense and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by savings
from cost reduction actions and materials cost containment. Earnings declined
$373 million in Industrial Automation, $238 million in Process Management, $227
million in Network Power, $162 million in Appliance and Tools and $154 million
in Climate Technologies. Earnings per share results reflect the benefit of share
repurchases. See the Business Segments discussion that follows for additional
information.  

Earnings from continuing operations and
earnings from continuing operations per share for 2008 increased 15 percent and
17 percent, respectively, compared with $2.1 billion and $2.65 for 2007,
reflecting increases in four of the five business segments, including $240
million in Process Management, $149 million in Network Power and $62 million in
Industrial Automation. The increased earnings reflect leverage from higher
sales, benefits realized from cost containment and higher selling prices,
partially offset by higher raw material and wage costs.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

14 

DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS  

There were no discontinued operations in
fiscal 2009. The $42 million loss from discontinued operations ($0.05 per share)
in fiscal 2008 included the $42 million gain on the divestiture of Brooks, the
$92 million loss related to the divestiture of the European appliance motor and
pump business, and $8 million of combined earnings related to these
divestitures. Fiscal 2007 income from discontinued operations related to the
European appliance motor and pump business was $7 million, or $0.01 per share.
See previous discussion under Acquisitions and Divestitures and Note 3 for
additional information regarding prior year discontinued
operations.  

NET EARNINGS, RETURN ON EQUITY AND
RETURN ON TOTAL CAPITAL  

Net earnings were $1.7 billion and
earnings per share were $2.27 for 2009, decreases of 29 percent and 26 percent,
respectively, compared with 2008, due to the same factors discussed previously.
Net earnings as a percent of net sales were 8.2 percent and 9.7 percent in 2009
and 2008. Return on stockholders  equity (net earnings divided by average
stockholders  equity) was 19.5 percent in 2009 compared with 27.0 percent in
2008. Return on total capital was 16.2 percent in 2009 compared with 21.8
percent in 2008, and is computed as net earnings excluding after-tax net
interest expense, divided by average stockholders  equity plus short- and
long-term debt less cash and short-term investments.  

Net earnings were $2.4 billion and
earnings per share were $3.06 for 2008, increases of 13 percent and 15 percent,
respectively, compared with net earnings and earnings per share of $2.1 billion
and $2.66, respectively, in 2007. Net earnings as a percent of net sales were
9.7 percent in 2008 and 2007. Net earnings in 2008 included the net loss from
discontinued operations discussed previously. Return on stockholders  equity
reached 27.0 percent in 2008 compared with 25.2 percent in 2007, and the Company
realized a 2008 return on total capital of 21.8 percent compared with 20.1
percent in 2007.  

Business Segments  

Following is a summary of segment
results for fiscal 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, and also 2008 compared with
fiscal 2007. The Company defines segment earnings as earnings before interest
and taxes.  

PROCESS MANAGEMENT  

2009
vs. 2008 -   Process
Management segment sales were $6.2 billion in 2009, a decrease of $419 million,
or 6 percent, from 2008. Nearly all of the Process businesses reported lower
sales and earnings, particularly for the measurement and flow business resulting
primarily from weakness in the chemical, refining and marine markets. Sales were
down slightly for the valves business while the power and water business had a
small sales increase. The segment sales decrease reflects a 2 percent decline in
underlying sales on lower volume, a 6 percent ($373 million) unfavorable impact
from foreign currency translation and a 2 percent ($94 million) favorable impact
primarily from the Roxar acquisition. Regionally, sales declined 6 percent in
the United States while international sales were flat, as growth in Asia (7
percent) offset decreases in Europe (4 percent), Middle East/Africa (3 percent),
Canada (6 percent) and Latin America (2 percent). Earnings decreased 18 percent
to $1,068 million from $1,306 million in the prior year, reflecting the lower
sales volume, negative product mix, higher rationalization costs of $43 million
and a $12 million negative impact from foreign currency transactions related to
the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 2009 versus weakening in the prior year,
partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions. The margin decrease
primarily reflects unfavorable product mix (approximately 2 points) and
deleverage on lower volume, which were partially offset by productivity
improvements. Price increases and materials cost containment were substantially
offset by higher wage costs.   

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

15 

2008
vs. 2007 -   Process
Management segment sales were $6.7 billion in 2008, an increase of $953 million,
or 17 percent, over 2007, reflecting higher volume and favorable foreign
currency translation. These results reflect the Company s continued investment
in next-generation technologies and expanding the global reach of the solutions
and services businesses, as well as the strong worldwide growth in energy and
power markets. All of the Process businesses reported higher revenues, with
sales particularly strong for the valves, measurement and systems businesses.
Underlying sales increased approximately 14 percent, reflecting 13 percent from
volume, which includes an estimated 3 percent from penetration gains, and 1
percent from higher pricing.   Foreign currency translation had a 4
percent ($225 million)  
favorable impact and the Brooks divestiture, net of acquisitions, had an
unfavorable impact of 1 percent ($35 million). The underlying sales increase
reflects growth in all geographic regions compared with the prior year,
including Asia (21 percent), the United States (12 percent), Europe (7 percent),
Latin America (22 percent), Canada (13 percent) and Middle East/Africa (14
percent). Earnings increased 23 percent to $1,306 million from $1,066 million in
the prior year, reflecting higher sales volume, savings from cost reductions and
materials cost containment and the benefit from foreign currency translation.
The margin increase primarily reflects leverage on the higher volume, price
increases and cost containment actions, which were partially offset by higher
wage costs, unfavorable product mix and strategic investments to support the
growth of these businesses.  

INDUSTRIAL
AUTOMATION  

2009
vs. 2008 -   Industrial
Automation segment sales decreased 24 percent to $3.7 billion in 2009, compared
with $4.9 billion in 2008. Sales results reflect steep declines for all
businesses due to the slowdown in the capital goods markets. Underlying sales
declined 22 percent, unfavorable foreign currency translation subtracted 4
percent ($236 million) and the System Plast and Trident Power acquisitions
contributed 2 percent ($97 million). Underlying sales decreased 25 percent in
the United States and 19 percent internationally, including decreases in Europe
(22 percent) and Asia (15 percent). Underlying sales reflect a 23 percent
decline in volume and an approximate 1 percent positive impact from higher
selling prices. Earnings decreased 51 percent to $354 million for 2009, compared
with $727 million in 2008, primarily reflecting the lower sales volume. The
margin decrease of 5.4 percentage points reflects deleverage on the lower sales
volume (approximately 4 points) with significant inventory reduction
(approximately 1 point) and higher rationalization costs of $28 million,
partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions and price
increases.  

2008
vs. 2007 -   Industrial
Automation sales increased 14 percent to $4.9 billion in 2008, compared with
$4.3 billion in 2007. Sales grew in all lines of business and in nearly all
geographic regions, reflecting strength in the power generating alternator,
fluid automation, electronic drives, electrical distribution and materials
joining businesses. Underlying sales growth was 7 percent, including 8 percent
in the United States and 6 percent internationally, and favorable foreign
currency translation added 7 percent ($278 million). The U.S. growth
particularly reflects the alternator business, which was driven by increased
demand for backup generators. The international sales growth primarily reflects
increases in Europe (4 percent) and Asia (17 percent). The underlying growth
reflects 6 percent from volume, as well as an approximate 1 percent positive
impact from price. Earnings increased 9 percent to $727 million for 2008,
compared with $665 million in 2007, reflecting higher sales volume and the
benefit from foreign currency translation. The margin decrease reflects a lower
payment received by the power transmission business for dumping duties under the
U.S. Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset Act. The Company received only $3
million in 2008 versus $24 million received in fiscal 2007. The Company does not
expect to receive any significant payments in the future. Margin was positively
impacted by leverage on the higher sales volume and benefits from prior cost
reduction efforts. Higher sales prices were substantially offset by higher
material and wage costs, as well as unfavorable product mix, which negatively
impacted margin.  

NETWORK POWER  

2009
vs. 2008 -   Sales in the
Network Power segment decreased 15 percent to $5.4 billion in 2009 compared with
$6.3 billion in 2008, reflecting declines in the inbound power, uninterruptible
power supply, precision cooling and embedded power businesses due to the
continued slowdown in customers  capital spending, partially offset by growth in
the China network power systems business. Underlying sales declined 11 percent,
  foreign currency
translation had a 3 percent ($191 million)   unfavorable impact and a decline in
sales for the Embedding Computing acquisition had a 1 percent ($101 million)
unfavorable impact. The underlying sales decrease reflects a 10 percent decline
in volume and a 1 percent impact from lower selling prices. Geographically,
underlying sales reflect decreases in the United States (19 percent), Europe (22
percent) and Latin America (3 percent), which were partially offset by increases
in Asia (1 percent), as the Company continues to penetrate the Chinese market,
Canada (9 percent), and Middle East/Africa (6 percent). Earnings decreased 29
percent to $567 million, compared with $794 million in 2008, primarily due to
lower sales volume and higher rationalization costs of $90 million (particularly
for the integration of Embedded Computing), partially offset by solid earnings
growth for the energy systems and China network power businesses. The segment
margin decrease reflects deleverage on lower sales volume and a negative impact
from acquisitions, partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions which
contributed to margin improvement for both the energy systems and China network
power systems businesses. Materials cost containment was partially offset by
lower selling prices and increased wage costs.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

16 

2008
vs. 2007 -   Sales in the
Network Power segment increased 23 percent to $6.3 billion in 2008 compared with
$5.2 billion in 2007. The increase in sales reflects continued growth in the
precision cooling, global services, uninterruptible power supply, inbound power
and power systems businesses. Underlying sales grew 11 percent, while the
Embedded Computing and Stratos acquisitions contributed approximately 9 percent
($449 million) and foreign currency translation had a 3 percent ($156 million)
favorable impact. The underlying sales increase of 11 percent reflects higher
volume, which includes an approximate 4 percent impact from penetration gains.
Geographically, underlying sales reflect a 17 percent increase in Asia, an 8
percent increase in the United States, a 14 percent increase in Latin America, a
55 percent increase in Middle East/Africa and a 2 percent increase in Europe.
The U.S. growth reflects continued demand for data room construction,
non-residential computer equipment and telecommunications power.
Internationally, the Company continues to penetrate the Chinese, Indian and
other Asian markets. Earnings increased 23 percent, or $149 million, to $794
million, compared with $645 million in 2007, primarily due to higher sales
volume and savings from cost reduction actions. The margin increase reflects
these savings and leverage on the higher volume, partially offset by a nearly 1
percentage point dilution from the Embedded Computing acquisition and higher
wage costs.  

CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES  

2009
vs. 2008 -   Climate
Technologies reported sales of $3.2 billion for 2009, a 16 percent decrease from
2008, reflecting declines across all businesses, especially for compressors,
temperature sensors and heater controls. Underlying sales decreased
approximately 15 percent, foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($92
million) unfavorable impact and acquisitions added 1 percent ($38 million). The
underlying sales decrease reflects an approximate 17 percent decline from lower
volume and an estimated 2 percent positive impact from higher selling prices.
Sales declines in the compressor business reflect the worldwide slowdown in
air-conditioning and refrigeration markets, particularly in the United States
and Asia. The underlying sales decrease reflects a 15 percent decrease in both
the United States and internationally, including declines of 18 percent in Asia,
10 percent in Europe and 15 percent in Latin America. Earnings decreased 28
percent to $397 million compared with $551 million in 2008, primarily due to
lower sales volume, higher rationalization costs of $26 million, a $15 million
commercial litigation charge and a $12 million negative impact from foreign
currency transactions related to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 2009
versus weakening in the prior year, partially offset by savings from cost
reduction actions. The margin decrease reflects deleverage on lower sales volume
(approximately 2 points), as well as higher materials costs, which were only
partially offset by price increases.   

2008
vs. 2007 -   Climate
Technologies reported sales of $3.8 billion for 2008, representing a 6 percent
increase over 2007, as underlying sales increased approximately 3 percent and
foreign currency translation had a 3 percent ($110 million) favorable impact.
The underlying sales increase of 3 percent reflects an approximate 2 percent
positive contribution from price increases and an approximate 1 percent gain
from higher volume, which includes a 2 percent impact from penetration gains.
The underlying sales increase was led by the water-heater controls business,
which primarily reflects penetration in the U.S. water-heater market. The
compressors business grew modestly, primarily in the refrigeration and the U.S.
and Asian air-conditioning markets; while the temperature sensors and flow
controls businesses declined. The growth in refrigeration was driven by the
transport container market. The underlying sales increase reflects a 2 percent
increase in the United States and 4 percent growth internationally, with Asia
growing 9 percent and Europe declining 6 percent. Earnings increased 2 percent
to $551 million in 2008 compared with $538 million in 2007. The margin was
diluted as higher sales prices were more than offset by material inflation and
higher restructuring costs of $13 million.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

17 

APPLIANCE AND TOOLS  

2009
vs. 2008 -   Sales for the
Appliance and Tools segment were $3.0 billion in 2009, a 22 percent decrease
from 2008. Declines in the storage, tools and appliance businesses were due to
the continued downturn in the U.S. residential and nonresidential markets, while
declines in the motors and appliance and solutions businesses reflect major
customers reducing inventory and production levels due to the difficult economic
conditions. The sales decrease reflects a 21 percent decline in underlying sales
and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation of 1 percent ($41
million).   Underlying sales
in the United States were down 21 percent while   underlying international sales decreased
17 percent. The underlying sales decrease reflects an estimated 23 percent
decline in volume and an approximate 2 percent positive impact from pricing.
Earnings for 2009 were $365 million, a 31 percent decrease from 2008, reflecting
deleverage on lower sales volume and higher rationalization costs of $16
million, which were partially offset by savings from cost reductions, higher
selling prices and a 2008 impairment charge of $31 million in the appliance
control business (see Note 4).  

2008
vs. 2007 -   Sales in the
Appliance and Tools segment were $3.9 billion in 2008, a 4 percent decrease from
2007. Results for 2008 were mixed, reflecting the different sectors served by
these businesses. The professional tools, commercial storage and hermetic motor
businesses showed increases, while the residential storage, appliance
components, and appliance and commercial motors businesses declined. The growth
in the professional tools business was driven by U.S. and Latin American
markets. The declines in the residential storage and appliance-related
businesses primarily reflect     the downturn in the U.S. consumer
appliance and residential end-markets, as the U.S. markets represented more than
80 percent of sales for this segment. Underlying sales in the United States were
down 6 percent from the prior year, while international underlying sales
increased 13 percent in total. The decrease in total sales reflects a 3 percent
decline in underlying sales, an unfavorable impact from divestitures of 2
percent ($65 million) and a favorable impact from foreign currency translation
of 1 percent ($40 million). The underlying sales decrease reflects an estimated
7 percent decline in volume and an approximate 4 percent positive impact from
higher pricing. Earnings for 2008 were $527 million, a 7 percent decrease from
2007. Earnings decreased because of deleverage on lower sales volume and the $31
million impairment charge in the appliance control business (see Note 4), which
was partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions. The increase in
sales prices was substantially offset by higher material (copper and other
commodities) and wage costs. The 2007 sale of the consumer hand tools product
line favorably impacted the margin.  

Financial Position, Capital Resources
and Liquidity  

The Company continues to generate
substantial cash from operations, is in a strong financial position with total
assets of $20 billion and stockholders  equity of $9 billion and has the
resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic
acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short- and long-term
basis.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

18 

CASH FLOW  

Emerson generated operating cash flow of
$3.1 billion in 2009, a 6 percent decrease from 2008 due to lower earnings and
increased pension funding, partially offset by significant savings from
continued improvements in operating working capital management. The cash
operating working capital reduction of $620 million included accounts receivable
and inventory liquidations of $1,011 million and $580 million, respectively,
partially offset by an accounts payable reduction of $709 million. Given the
significant operating working capital reduction in 2009, the Company expects
operating cash flow to decline in fiscal 2010. Operating cash flow was $3.3
billion in 2008, a 9 percent increase from 2007, driven by higher net earnings.
At September 30, 2009, operating working capital as a percent of sales was 8.2
percent, compared with 8.9 percent and 8.5 percent in 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Pension contributions were $303 million, $135 million and $136
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Free cash flow (operating cash flow less
capital expenditures) was $2.6 billion in both 2009 and 2008, compared with $2.3
billion in 2007. The 10 percent increase in free cash flow in 2008 compared with
2007 reflects the increase in operating cash flow, partially offset by higher
capital spending. Capital expenditures were $531 million, $714 million and $681
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in capital
expenditures during 2009 compared with the prior year was primarily due to the
overall decline in worldwide business, while the increase in 2008 compared with
2007 was primarily due to capacity expansion in the Process Management and
Industrial Automation segments and construction of a corporate data center. In
2010, the Company is targeting capital spending of approximately $500 million.
Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions was $776 million, $561 million and
$295 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Dividends were $998 million ($1.32 per
share, up 10 percent) in 2009, compared with $940 million ($1.20 per share) in
2008 and $837 million ($1.05 per share) in 2007. In November 2009, the Board of
Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash dividend 1.5 percent to an
annualized rate of $1.34 per share. In 2008, the Board of Directors approved a
program for the repurchase of up to 80 million common shares to augment an
existing 2002 plan. In 2009, 21.0 million shares were repurchased under the
fiscal 2008 authorization; in 2008, 22.4 million shares were repurchased under
the fiscal 2002 and 2008 authorizations; and in 2007, 18.9 million shares were
repurchased under the 2002 authorization. 51.4 million shares remain available
for repurchase under the 2008 authorization and zero remain available under the
2002 authorization. Purchases of Emerson common stock totaled $695 million,
$1,128 million and $849 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, at an
average price paid per share of $33.09, $50.31 and $44.98,
respectively.  

LEVERAGE/CAPITALIZATION  

Total debt, which includes short-term
borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt, was $4.6 billion, $4.5
billion and $3.8 billion for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. During 2009, the
Company issued $250 million of 4.125% notes due April 2015, $250 million of
5.00% notes due April 2019, $250 million of 6.125% notes due April 2039 and $500
million of 4.875% notes due October 2019, and repaid $175 million of 5% notes
and $250 million of 5.85% notes that had matured. In November 2009, the Company
issued $300 million of 4.25% notes due November 2020 and $300 million of 5.25%
notes due November 2039. During 2008, the Company issued $400 million of 5.25%
notes due October 2018 and repaid $250 million of 5.5% notes that had matured.
During 2007, the Company issued $250 million of 5.125% notes due December 2016
and $250 million of 5.375% notes due October 2017.  

The total debt-to-capital ratio was 34.8
percent at year end 2009, compared with 33.1 percent for 2008 and 30.1 percent
for 2007. At September 30, 2009, net debt (total debt less cash and short-term
investments) was 25.7 percent of net capital, compared with 22.7 percent in 2008
and 23.6 percent in 2007. The operating cash flow-to-debt ratio was 67.5
percent, 72.9 percent and 79.9 percent in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
Company s interest coverage ratio (earnings before income taxes plus interest
expense, divided by interest expense) was 10.9 times in 2009, compared with 15.7
times and 12.9 times in 2008 and 2007. The decrease in the interest coverage
ratio from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to lower earnings and the increase
from 2007 to 2008 reflects higher earnings and lower interest rates. See Notes
3, 8 and 9 for additional information. The Company s strong financial position
supports long-term debt ratings of A2 by Moody s Investors Service and A by
Standard and Poor s. The Company anticipates no change   in credit rating due to the Avocent
acquisition discussed in Note 3.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

19 

The Company has a universal shelf
registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock,
warrants, share purchase contracts and share purchase units without a
predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings
with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of
sale.  

At year end 2009, the Company
maintained, but has not drawn upon, a $2.8 billion, five-year, revolving backup
credit facility that expires in April 2011 to support short-term borrowings. The
credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to
termination based on a change in credit ratings or a material adverse change.
The Company expects to renew the backup credit facility in
2010.  

Although credit markets in the U.S.,
including the commercial paper market, have stabilized, there remains a risk of
volatility and illiquidity that could affect the Company s ability to access
those markets. However, despite the adverse market conditions over the past
year, the Company has thus far been able to readily meet all its funding needs
and currently believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet the
Company s needs in the foreseeable future through existing resources, ongoing
operations, short- and long-term debt or backup credit
lines.  

CONTRACTUAL
OBLIGATIONS  

At September 30, 2009, the Company s
contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as
follows (dollars in millions):  

Purchase obligations consist primarily
of inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational
requirements. The above table does not include $2.3 billion of other noncurrent
liabilities   recorded in the
balance sheet and summarized in Note 17,   which consist primarily of retirement
and postretirement plan liabilities and deferred income taxes (including
unrecognized tax benefits), because it is not certain when these amounts will
become due. See Notes 10, 11 and 13 for additional
information.  

FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS  

The Company is exposed to market risk
related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency
exchange rates, and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including
forwards, swaps and purchased options, to manage these risks. The Company does
not hold derivatives for trading purposes. The value of market risk sensitive
derivative and other financial instruments is subject to change as a result of
movements in market rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used
to evaluate the impact of these movements. Based on a hypothetical 10 percent
increase in interest rates, 10 percent decrease in commodity prices or 10
percent weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses
in future earnings, fair value and cash flows are immaterial. This method has
limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings
through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results, and lower commodity
prices would benefit future earnings through lower cost of sales. See Notes 1,
7, 8 and 9.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

20 

Critical Accounting
Policies  

Preparation of the Company s financial
statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates
regarding uncertainties that affect reported revenue, expenses, assets,
liabilities and stockholders  equity. Note 1 describes the significant
accounting policies used in preparation of the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The most significant areas where management judgments and estimates
impact the primary financial statements are described below. Actual results in
these areas could differ materially from management s estimates under different
assumptions or conditions.  

REVENUE RECOGNITION  

The Company recognizes nearly all of its
revenues through the sale of manufactured products and records the sale when
products are shipped or delivered and title passes to the customer with
collection reasonably assured. In certain instances, revenue is recognized on
the percentage-of-completion method, when services are rendered, or in
accordance with FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Subtopic 985-605,
Software: Revenue Recognition. Sales sometimes involve delivering multiple
items, including services such as installation. In these instances, the revenue
assigned to each item is based on that item s objectively determined fair value,
and revenue is recognized individually for delivered items only if the delivered
items have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, and the performance of
the undelivered items is probable and substantially in the Company s
  control or the undelivered
items are inconsequential or     perfunctory. Management believes that
all relevant criteria   and
conditions are considered when recognizing sales.   

INVENTORIES  

Inventories are stated at the lower of
cost or market. The majority of inventory values are based on standard costs
that approximate average costs, while the remainder are principally valued on a
first-in, first-out basis. Standard costs are revised at the beginning of each
fiscal year. The effects of resetting standards and operating variances incurred
during each period are allocated between inventories and cost of sales. The
Company s divisions review inventory for obsolescence, make appropriate
provisions and dispose of obsolete inventory on a regular basis. Various factors
are considered in these reviews, including sales history and recent trends,
industry conditions and general economic conditions.  

LONG-LIVED ASSETS  

Long-lived assets, which include
property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances
indicate an impairment may exist. If the Company determines that the carrying
value of the long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a permanent impairment
charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived
asset exceeds its fair value. Reporting units are also reviewed for possible
goodwill impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter, by comparing the
fair value of each unit to its carrying value. Fair value is generally measured
based on a discounted future cash flow method using a discount rate judged by
management to be commensurate with the applicable risk. Estimates of future
sales and operating results, and therefore cash flows, as well as discount
rates, are subject to change depending on the economic environment, including
such factors as the general level of interest rates in the credit markets,
expected equity market returns and volatility of markets served, particularly if
the current recessionary economic environment continues for an extended period
of time.  

At the end of fiscal 2009, Emerson s
total market value based on its exchange traded stock price was approximately
$30 billion and stockholders  equity was $8.6 billion. There are two units in
the Network Power segment with $367 million of goodwill, including recent
acquisitions, where estimated fair value exceeds carrying value by approximately
7 percent. Assumptions used in determining value include successful execution of
business plans, completion of integration and restructuring actions, and
economic recovery in served markets, primarily network communications and
connectivity. There are two units in the Appliance and Tools segment with $249
million of goodwill, where estimated fair value exceeds carrying value by 35
percent and assumes execution of business plan and recovery in residential and
construction-related markets. Management believes the estimates of future cash
flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes in estimates due to
variance from assumptions could materially affect the
evaluations.  

In 2008, the slowdown in consumer
appliance and residential end-markets over the prior two years, along with
strategic decisions in connection with two businesses, resulted in a $31 million
impairment charge in the North American appliance control business and a $92
million loss on the divestiture of the European appliance motor and pump
business. See Notes 1, 3, 4 and 6.  

RETIREMENT PLANS  

The Company continues to focus on a
prudent long-term investment strategy for its pension-related assets, and the
calculation of defined benefit plan expense and obligations are dependent on
assumptions made regarding these assets. These assumptions include the discount
rate, rate of annual compensation increases and expected annual return on plan
assets. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, actual
results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized in future
periods. While management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate,
differences versus actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect the
Company s retirement plan obligations and future expense.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

21 

As of September 30, 2009, U.S. and
non-U.S. retirement plans were underfunded by $380 million and $230 million,
respectively, with the increase in under-funding primarily due to a decline in
the discount rate for U.S. plans from 6.5 percent in 2008 to 5.5 percent in
2009, and the decline in asset values during fiscal 2009. Deferred actuarial
losses, which will be recognized in earnings in future years, were $1,692
million as of September 30, 2009. The Company contributed $303 million to
defined benefit plans in 2009 and expects to contribute approximately $250
million in 2010. Defined benefit pension plan expense for fiscal 2010 is
expected to be approximately $130 million, versus $94 million in 2009. See Notes
10 and 11.  

INCOME TAXES  

Income tax expense and deferred tax
assets and liabilities reflect management s assessment of future taxes expected
to be paid on items reflected in the financial statements. Uncertainty exists
regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns still under
examination and positions expected to be taken in future returns. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities arise because of temporary differences between the
consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured using enacted tax rates in
effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment
date. Generally, no provision is made for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed
earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, as these earnings are considered permanently
invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international
operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these
undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Note
13.  

NEW ACCOUNTING
PRONOUNCEMENTS  

Effective October 1, 2009, the Company
adopted ASC 805, Business Combinations (formerly FAS No. 141(R),  Business
Combinations ). ASC 805 requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be
measured at fair value as of the acquisition date, all acquisition costs to be
expensed as incurred and contractual contingencies to be recognized at fair
value as of the acquisition date. The impact of adoption, if any, will depend on
acquisitions completed in the future.  

Effective October 1, 2009, the Company
adopted updates to ASC 810, Consolidation (formerly FAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling
Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements ). The updated portion of ASC 810
requires an entity to separately disclose noncontrolling interests as a separate
component of equity in the balance sheet and clearly identify on the face of the
income statement net income related to noncontrolling interests. Adoption is not
expected to have a material impact on the Company s financial
statements.  

Effective October 1, 2009, the Company
adopted updates to ASC 260, Earnings per Share (formerly FASB Staff Position No.
EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment
Transactions Are Participating Securities ). The updated portion of ASC 260
clarifies whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions should
be included in the computation of EPS using the two-class method prior to
vesting. Adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s
financial statements.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued Staff
Position No. FAS 132 (R)-1,  Employers  Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit
Plan Assets  (now part of ASC 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits). This
portion of ASC 715 is effective for fiscal 2010 annual disclosure, and expands
disclosure about an entity s investment policies and strategies for assets held
by defined benefit pension or postretirement plans, including information
regarding major categories of plan assets, inputs and valuation techniques used
to measure the fair value of assets, and significant concentrations of risk
within the plans. Adoption is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company s financial statements.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

22 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
EARNINGS  

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.  
SUBSIDIARIES  

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in
millions, except per share amounts  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

23 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS  

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.  
SUBSIDIARIES  

September 30 | Dollars in millions,
except per share amounts   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

24 

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

25 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS 
EQUITY  

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.  
SUBSIDIARIES  

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in
millions, except per share amounts   

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

26 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS  

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.  
SUBSIDIARIES  

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in
millions  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

27 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS  

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.  
SUBSIDIARIES  

Years ended September 30 | Dollars in
millions, except per share amounts or where noted  

(1)  Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies  

FINANCIAL STATEMENT
PRESENTATION  

The preparation of the financial
statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect
reported amounts and related disclosures, and   actual results could differ from those
estimates. The Company has evaluated subsequent events through November
23,     2009. Certain prior year amounts have
been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Operating results
of the European appliance motor and pump business are classified as discontinued
operations for 2008 and earlier periods, while the operating results of Brooks
Instruments are classified as discontinued operations for 2008
only.  

Emerson adopted the FASB Accounting
Standards Codification (ASC) in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The
Codification reorganized and consolidated current U.S. GAAP topically and is now
the single authoritative source for GAAP. The adoption had no effect on the
Company s operations.  

PRINCIPLES OF
CONSOLIDATION  

The Consolidated Financial Statements
include the accounts of the Company and its controlled affiliates. Intercompany
transactions, profits and balances are eliminated in consolidation. Investments
of 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting shares of other entities are accounted
for by the equity method. Investments in publicly-traded companies of less than
20 percent are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in
accumulated other comprehensive income. Investments in nonpublicly-traded
companies of less than 20 percent are carried at cost.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY
TRANSLATION  

The functional currency for most of the
Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries is the local currency. Adjustments     resulting from translating local
currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are reflected in accumulated
other comprehensive income.  

FAIR VALUE
MEASUREMENTS  

Effective October 1, 2008, the Company
adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of FAS No. 157,  Fair Value
Measurements  (now part of ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures),
which established a formal hierarchy and framework for measuring fair value, and
expanded disclosure about fair value measurements and the reliability of
valuation inputs. Under ASC 820, measurement assumes the transaction to sell an
asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal or at least the most
advantageous market for that asset or liability. Within the hierarchy, Level 1
instruments use observable market prices for the identical item in active
markets and have the most reliable valuations. Level 2 instruments are valued
through broker/dealer quotation or through market-observable inputs for similar
items in active markets, including forward and spot prices, interest rates and
volatilities. Level 3 instruments are valued using inputs not observable in an
active market, such as company-developed future cash flow estimates, and are
considered the least reliable. Valuations for all of Emerson s financial
instruments fall within Level 2. The fair value of the Company s long-term debt
is estimated using current interest rates and pricing from financial
institutions and other market sources for debt with similar maturities and
characteristics. Due to the high credit quality of Emerson and its
counterparties, the impact of adopting ASC 820 was inconsequential. ASC 820 is
effective for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, including goodwill and
certain other intangible and long-lived assets, beginning in fiscal
2010.  

If credit ratings on the Company s debt
fall below pre-established levels, derivatives counterparties can require
immediate full collateralization on instruments in net liability positions.
Similarly, Emerson can demand full collateralization should any of the Company s
counterparties  credit rating fall below certain thresholds. For derivatives in
asset positions, no credit loss is anticipated as the counterparties to these
agreements are companies with high credit ratings. The Company has master
netting arrangements in place with its counterparties that allow the offsetting
of derivative-related amounts receivable and payable when settlement occurs in
the same period. Accordingly, counterparty balances are netted in the
consolidated balance sheet, with the net values of commodity contracts currently
reported in current assets and net values of foreign currency contracts reported
in accrued expenses. See Note 7.  

CASH EQUIVALENTS  

Cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or
less.  

INVENTORIES  

Inventories are stated at the lower of
cost or market. The majority of inventory values are based on standard costs
that approximate average costs, while the remainder are principally valued on a
first-in, first-out basis. Standard costs are revised at the beginning of each
fiscal year. The effects of resetting standards and operating variances incurred
during each period are allocated between inventories and cost of
sales.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

28 

PROPERTY, PLANT AND
EQUIPMENT  

The Company records investments in land,
buildings, and machinery and equipment at cost. Depreciation is computed
principally using the straight-line method over estimated service lives, which
for principal assets are 30 to 40 years for buildings and 8 to 12 years for
machinery and equipment. Long-lived tangible assets are reviewed for impairment
whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the carrying value
of the assets may not be recoverable. Impairment losses are recognized based on
fair value if expected future undiscounted cash flows of the related assets are
less than their carrying values.  

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE
ASSETS  

Assets and liabilities acquired in
business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method and recorded
at their respective fair values. Substantially all goodwill is assigned to the
reporting unit that acquires a business. A reporting unit is an operating
segment as defined in ASC 280, Segment Reporting or a business one level below
an operating segment if discrete financial information for that business unit is
prepared and regularly reviewed by the segment manager. The Company conducts
impairment tests of goodwill on an annual basis and between annual tests if an
event occurs or circumstances change that indicates the fair value of a
reporting unit may be less than its carrying value. If a reporting unit s
carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, goodwill impairment is
recognized to the extent that recorded goodwill exceeds the implied fair value
of that goodwill. Fair values of reporting units are Level 3 measures and are
developed under an income approach that discounts estimated future cash flows
using risk-adjusted interest rates.  

All of the Company s identifiable
intangible assets are subject to amortization. Identifiable intangibles consist
of intellectual property such as patents and trademarks, customer relationships
and capitalized software, and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful life. These intangibles are also subject to evaluation for
potential impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate
the carrying amount may not be recoverable.     See Note 6.  

WARRANTY  

Product warranties vary by product lines
and are competitive for the markets in which the Company operates. Warranty
generally extends for a period of one to two years from the date of sale or
installation. Provisions for warranty are determined primarily based on
historical warranty cost as a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per unit
sold based on failure rates, adjusted for specific problems that may arise.
Product warranty expense is less than 1 percent     of
sales.    

REVENUE RECOGNITION  

The Company recognizes nearly all of its
revenues through the sale of manufactured products and records the sale when
products are shipped or delivered, title passes to the customer and collection
is reasonably assured. In certain instances, revenue is recognized on the
percentage-of-completion method, when services are rendered, or in accordance
with ASC 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition. Product sales sometimes also
include services such as installation. In these instances, revenue is assigned
to each item based on that item s objectively determined fair value, with
revenue recognized individually for delivered items only if the delivered items
have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and performance of the
undelivered items is probable and substantially in the Company s control, or if
the undelivered items are inconsequential or perfunctory. Management believes
that all relevant criteria and conditions are considered when recognizing
sales.  

DERIVATIVES AND
HEDGING  

In the normal course of business, the
Company is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates
and commodity prices due to its worldwide presence and diverse business profile.
As part of the Company s risk management strategy, derivative instruments are
selectively used in an effort to minimize the impact of these exposures. Foreign
exchange forwards and options are utilized to hedge foreign currency exposures
impacting sales or cost of sales transactions, firm commitments and the fair
value of assets and liabilities, while swap and option contracts are used to
minimize the effect of commodity price fluctuations on the cost of sales. All
derivatives are explicitly associated with specific underlying exposures and the
Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Emerson s
foreign currency exposures primarily relate to transactions denominated in
euros, Mexican pesos, Canadian dollars and Swedish kroner. Primary commodity
exposures are price fluctuations on forecasted purchases of copper, aluminum and
related products. The duration of hedge positions is generally two years or less
and amounts currently hedged beyond 18 months are not
significant.  

All derivatives are accounted for under
ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and are recognized on the balance sheet at
fair value. For derivatives hedging variability in future cash flows, the
effective portion of any gain or loss is deferred in stockholders  equity and
recognized in earnings only when the underlying hedged transaction occurs. The
majority of the Company s derivatives that are designated as hedges and qualify
for deferral accounting are cash flow hedges. For derivatives hedging the fair
value of existing assets or liabilities, both the gain or loss on the derivative
and the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item are recognized in earnings
each period. Currency fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar obligations that have been
designated as hedges of non-U.S. dollar net asset exposures are reported in
stockholders  equity. To the extent that any hedge is not fully effective at
offsetting cash flow or fair value changes in the underlying hedged item, there
could be a net earnings impact. The Company also uses derivatives to hedge
economic exposures that do not receive deferral accounting under ASC 815. The
underlying exposures for these hedges relate primarily to purchases of
commodity-based components used in the Company s manufacturing processes, and
the revaluation of certain foreign-currency-denominated assets and
liabilities.  Gains or losses from the ineffective portion of any
hedge, as well as any gains or losses on derivative instruments not designated
as hedges, are recognized in the income statement
immediately.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

29 

The majority of hedging gains and losses
deferred as of September 30, 2009 are generally expected to be recognized over
the next 12 months as the underlying forecasted transactions occur. The amounts
ultimately recognized may differ, favorably or unfavorably, from those disclosed
because until the positions are settled they remain subject to ongoing market
price fluctuations. Derivatives receiving deferral accounting are highly
effective, no amounts were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness,
and hedge ineffectiveness was immaterial in 2009, 2008 and 2007, including gains
or losses on derivatives that were discontinued because forecasted transactions
were no longer expected to occur. Effective January 1, 2009, the Company adopted
the expanded disclosure provisions of ASC 815.  

INCOME TAXES  

No provision has been made for U.S.
income taxes on approximately $4.3 billion of undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries as of September 30, 2009. These earnings are considered permanently
invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international
operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these
undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not
practicable.  

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  

Comprehensive income is primarily
composed of net earnings plus changes in foreign currency translation, pension
and postretirement adjustments and the effective portion of changes in the fair
value of cash flow hedges. Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax,
consists of foreign currency translation credits of $594 and $698, pension and
postretirement charges of $1,096 and $528 and cash flow hedges and other credits
of $6 and charges of $29, respectively, at September 30, 2009 and
2008.  

RETIREMENT PLANS  

Effective September 30, 2009, the
Company adopted the measurement provision of FAS 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  (now part of ASC 715,
Compensation   Retirement Benefits). This provision requires employers to
measure defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of the Company s fiscal
year end. The majority of the Company s pension and postretirement plans
previously used a June 30 measurement date. To transition to the fiscal year-end
measurement date pursuant to ASC 715, the Company measured its defined benefit
plan assets and obligations as of September 30, 2009 and recorded a $14
after-tax adjustment to ending retained earnings. Previously, as of September
30, 2007, the Company adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of ASC
715, which required employers to recognize the full funded status of defined
benefit pension and other postretirement plans in the balance sheet and to
recognize changes in the funded status in comprehensive income in the year they
occur. The incremental effect of adopting the recognition and disclosure
provisions was a reduction in other assets of $425, an increase in other
liabilities of $97 and an after-tax charge to stockholders      equity of $329.  

(2)  Weighted Average Common
Shares  

Basic earnings per common share consider
only the weighted average of common shares outstanding while diluted earnings
per common share consider the dilutive effects of stock options and incentive
shares. Options to purchase approximately 7.6 million, 3.6 million and 1.1
million shares of common stock were excluded from the computation of diluted
earnings per share in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, because their effect
would have been antidilutive. Reconciliations of weighted average shares for
basic and diluted earnings per common share follow:  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

30 

(3)  Acquisitions and
Divestitures  

The Company acquired Roxar ASA during
the third quarter of 2009, Trident Powercraft Private Limited during the second
quarter of 2009 and System Plast S.p.A. during the first quarter of 2009. Roxar
is a leading global supplier of measurement solutions and software for reservoir
production optimization, enhanced oil and gas recovery and flow assurance and is
included in the Process Management segment. Trident Power is a manufacturer and
supplier of power generating alternators and other products and is included in
the Industrial Automation segment. System Plast is a manufacturer of engineered
modular belts and custom conveyer components for the food processing and
packaging industries and is included in the Industrial Automation segment. In
addition to Roxar, Trident Power and System Plast, the Company acquired other
smaller businesses during 2009, mainly in the Climate Technologies, Appliance
and Tools and Process Management segments. Total cash paid for all businesses
was approximately $776 (net of cash acquired of approximately $31 and debt
assumed of approximately $230) and their annualized sales were approximately
$530. Goodwill of $541 ($34 of which is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes) and identifiable intangible assets (primarily customer relationships
and patents and technology) of $365, which have a weighted-average life of 12
years, were recognized from these transactions in 2009. Because valuations of
acquired assets and liabilities are in-process, purchase price allocations for
fiscal year 2009 acquisitions are subject to refinement.  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2010,
the Company entered into a definitive agreement and commenced a tender offer to
acquire Avocent Corporation for approximately $1.2 billion in cash. Avocent is a
leader in delivering information technology operations management solutions that
reduce operating costs, simplify management and increase availability of
critical information technology environments via integrated, centralized
software. Avocent products complement the Network Power segment s power systems,
energy management and precision cooling solutions. The transaction is expected
to be completed in December 2009 and is subject to acceptance of the tender
offer by a majority of Avocent shareholders, customary closing conditions and
regulatory approvals.  

The Company acquired Motorola Inc. s
Embedded Computing business during the first quarter of 2008. Embedded Computing
provides communication platforms and enabling software used by manufacturers of
equipment for telecommunications, medical imaging, defense and aerospace, and
industrial automation markets and is included in the Network Power segment. In
addition to Embedded Computing, the Company acquired several smaller businesses
during 2008, mainly in the Process Management and Network Power segments. Total
cash paid for these businesses was approximately $561 (net of cash acquired of
approximately $2) and their annualized sales were approximately $665. Goodwill
of $273 ($214 of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes) and
identifiable intangible assets (primarily technology and customer relationships)
of $191, which have a weighted-average life of eight years, were recognized from
these transactions.  

In the first quarter of 2008, the
Company divested the Brooks Instrument flow meters and flow controls unit, which
had sales for the first quarter of 2008 of $21 and net earnings of $1. Proceeds
from the sale of Brooks were $100, resulting in a pretax gain of $63 ($42
after-tax). The net gain on divestiture and Brooks  results of operations for
fiscal 2008 are classified as discontinued operations; prior year results of
operations were inconsequential. This business was previously included in the
Process Management segment. Also in fiscal 2008, the Company received
approximately $101 from the divestiture of the European appliance motor and pump
business, resulting in a loss of $92, which included goodwill impairment of $83
and an additional loss of $9. The European appliance motor and pump business had
total annual sales of $453 and $441 and net earnings, excluding the divestiture
loss, of $7 and $7 in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The divestiture loss and
results of operations are classified as discontinued operations. This business
was previously included in the Appliance and Tools segment.  

In fiscal 2007, the Company acquired
Damcos Holding AS during the second quarter and Stratos International, Inc.
during the fourth quarter. Damcos supplies valve remote control systems and tank
monitoring equipment to the marine and shipbuilding industries and is included
in the Process Management segment. Stratos is a designer and manufacturer of
radio-frequency and microwave interconnect products and is included in the
Network Power segment. In addition to Damcos and Stratos, the Company acquired
several smaller businesses during 2007, mainly in the Process Management and
Appliance and Tools segments. Total cash paid for these businesses was
approximately $295 (net of cash acquired of approximately $40 and debt assumed
of approximately $56) and their annualized sales were $240. Goodwill of $189
(none of which is expected to be deductible for tax purposes) and identifiable
intangible assets (primarily technology and customer relationships) of $106,
which have a weighted-average life of nine years, were recognized from these
transactions.  

The results of operations of the
businesses discussed above have been included in the Company s consolidated
results of operations since the respective dates of acquisition or until the
respective dates of divestiture.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

31 

(4)  Other Deductions,
Net  

Other deductions, net are summarized as
follows:  

Other is composed of several items that
are individually immaterial, including minority interest expense, foreign
currency gains and losses, bad debt expense, equity investment income and
losses, as well as one-time items such as litigation and disputed matters,
insurance recoveries and interest refunds. Other decreased in 2009 primarily
because of a $31 impairment charge in 2008 and $27 of lower minority interest
expense, partially offset by $30 of incremental losses on foreign currency
exchange transactions.  

Other increased from 2007 to 2008
primarily because of an incremental $12 loss on foreign currency exchange
transactions, an approximate $12 charge to write off in-process research and
development in connection with the Embedded Computing acquisition and a $31
goodwill impairment charge related to the North American appliance control
business due to a slow economic environment for consumer appliance and
residential end-markets and a major customer s strategy to diversify suppliers
and internalize the production of electronic controls. Subsequent to the
impairment, these operations were restructured and integrated with the North
American appliance motors business.  

Gains, net for 2009 includes the sale of
an asset in which the Company received $41 and recognized a gain of $25 ($17
  after-tax). In fiscal 2008,
the Company received $54 and recognized a gain of $39 ($20 after-tax) on the
sale of an equity  
investment in Industrial Motion Control Holdings, a manufacturer of motion
control components for automation equipment, and also recorded a pretax gain of
$18 related to the sale of a facility. Gains, net for 2007 includes a pretax
gain of approximately $32 related to the sale of the Company s remaining 4.5
million shares of MKS Instruments and a pretax gain of approximately $24 for
payments received under the U.S. Continued Dumping and Subsidy Offset
Act.  

(5)  Rationalization of
Operations  

Rationalization of operations expense
reflects costs associated with the Company s efforts to continuously improve
operational efficiency and expand globally, in order to remain competitive on a
worldwide basis. Given the difficult economic environment, the Company incurred
costs of $295 in 2009 for actions to rationalize its businesses to the level
appropriate for current economic conditions and to improve its cost structure in
preparation for the ultimate recovery. Rationalization expenses result from
numerous individual actions implemented across the Company s various operating
divisions on an ongoing basis and include costs for moving facilities to
best-cost locations, starting up plants after relocation or geographic expansion
to serve local markets, exiting certain product lines, curtailing/downsizing
operations because of changing economic conditions and other costs resulting
from asset redeployment decisions. The change in the liability for the
rationalization of operations during the years ended September 30 follows.
Shutdown costs include severance, benefits, stay bonuses, lease and contract
terminations and asset write-downs. In addition to the costs of moving fixed
assets, start-up and moving costs include employee training and relocation.
Vacant facility costs include security, maintenance, utility and other
costs.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

32 

Expense includes $6 and $8 in 2008 and
2007, respectively, related to the European appliance motor and pump business
classified as discontinued operations.  

Rationalization of operations by segment
is summarized as follows:  

Given ongoing economic conditions, the
Company currently expects rationalization expense for 2010 in the range of $125
to $175, including the costs to complete actions initiated before the end of
2009 and actions anticipated to be approved and initiated during
2010.  

Costs incurred during 2009 included
action to exit approximately 25 production, distribution or office facilities
and eliminate approximately 20,000 positions, of which approximately one-half
were from restructuring actions and the remainder through layoffs and attrition,
as well as costs related to facilities exited in previous periods. All the
Company s business segments incurred shutdown costs due to workforce reductions
and/or the consolidation of facilities. Start-up and moving costs were primarily
attributable to Network Power and Industrial Automation, and Network Power
accounted for most of the asset write-downs. Vacant facilities and other costs
were immaterial for any segment. Actions during 2009 included Process Management
reducing worldwide headcount; Industrial Automation consolidating production
facilities and reducing North American headcount; Network Power primarily
incurring integration costs for the Embedded Computing acquisition, but also
consolidating power systems production areas in     North America and Europe and shifting
some production and engineering capabilities from Europe to Asia; Climate
Technologies consolidating or downsizing production facilities in North America,
Europe and Asia; and Appliance     and Tools reducing salaried workforce
and consolidating or downsizing production facilities in North
America.  

During 2008, rationalization of
operations expense primarily related to exiting approximately 10 production,
distribution or office facilities, and included the elimination of approximately
2,300 positions as well as ongoing costs related to facilities exited in
previous periods. Noteworthy actions in 2008 included Process Management
expanding capacity in China and consolidating European production facilities;
Industrial Automation consolidating power transmission and valve facilities in
North America; Network Power consolidating production in North America and
transferring other production in Asia; Climate Technologies shifting certain
production to Mexico and consolidating production facilities in Europe; and
Appliance and Tools shifting production from Canada to the U.S. and closing
motor production facilities in Europe.  

Costs for 2007 related primarily to
exiting approximately 25 production, distribution or office facilities, and
included the elimination of approximately 2,200 positions plus costs related to
facilities exited in previous periods. Process Management expanded capacity in
China and moved certain operations from Western Europe to Eastern Europe and
Asia; Industrial Automation consolidated certain power transmission facilities
in Asia and North America; Network Power closed certain power conversion
facilities and also shifted power systems production from the U.S. and Europe to
Mexico; Climate Technologies expanded capacity in Mexico and Eastern Europe and
consolidated production facilities in the U.S.; and Appliance and Tools
consolidated certain North American production and closed production facilities
in Europe.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

33 

(6)  Goodwill and Other
Intangibles  

Acquisitions are accounted for under the
purchase method, with substantially all goodwill assigned to the reporting unit
that acquires the business. Under the annual impairment test, if a reporting
unit s carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, a goodwill impairment
is recognized to the extent that the reporting unit s carrying amount of
goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill. Fair values of
reporting units are estimated using discounted cash flows and market multiples.
The change in goodwill by business segment follows. See Notes 3 and 4 for
further discussion of changes in goodwill related to acquisitions, divestitures
and impairment.  

The gross carrying amount and
accumulated amortization of identifiable intangible assets by major class
follow:  

Total intangible asset amortization
expense for 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $184, $150 and $131, respectively. Based on
intangible asset balances as of September 30, 2009, amortization expense is
expected to approximate $196 in 2010, $182 in 2011, $150 in 2012, $108 in 2013
and $85 in 2014.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

34 

(7)  Financial
Instruments  

HEDGING ACTIVITIES  

The notional value of foreign currency
hedge positions totaled approximately $2.3 billion as of September 30, 2009.
Commodity hedges outstanding at year end included a total of approximately 52
million pounds of copper and aluminum. Shown below for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 2009 are amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive
income into earnings, amounts recognized in other comprehensive income and
amounts recognized in earnings for derivatives not receiving deferral
accounting. Hedging gains or losses are largely offset by losses or gains on the
related underlying exposures.  

GAIN
      (LOSS)  

                                 RECLASSIFIED  

                                 INTO
      EARNINGS  

LOCATION  

GAIN
      (LOSS)  

                               RECOGNIZED
      IN  

                               OTHER  

                               COMPREHENSIVE  

                               INCOME  

Derivatives Receiving Deferral
      Accounting  

Cash Flow
      Hedges  

Foreign
      currency  

$  
                           (24   
                          )  

Sales  

$  
                           (18   
                          )  

Foreign
      currency  

(32   
                          )  

Cost of
    sales  

(40   
                          )  

Commodity  

(96   
                          )  

Cost of
    sales  

(40   
                          )  

$  
                            (152    
                          )  

$  
                           (98   
                          )  

GAIN
      (LOSS)  

                               RECOGNIZED  

                              IN
      EARNINGS 

LOCATION  

Derivatives Not Receiving Deferral
      Accounting  

Foreign
      currency  

$  
                           (67   
                          )  

Other income
      (deductions)  

Commodity  

(11   
                          )  

Cost of
    sales  

$  
                            (78    
                          )  

FAIR VALUE
MEASUREMENTS  

Fair values of derivative contracts
outstanding as of September 30, 2009 follow:  

ASSETS  

LIABILITIES  

Derivatives Receiving Deferral
      Accounting  

Foreign
      currency  

$  
                           15   

(33   
                          )  

Commodity  

$  
                           30   

(4   
                          )  

Derivatives Not Receiving Deferral
      Accounting  

Foreign
      currency  

$  
                           6   

(7   
                          )  

Commodity  

$  
                           2   

(2   
                          )  

The Company held $4 of collateral posted
by counterparties in the normal course of business as of September 30, 2009. The
maximum incremental collateral the Company could have been required to post as
of September 30, 2009 was $27. As of September 30, 2009 and 2008, the fair value
of long-term debt was $4,915 and $3,752, respectively, which was in excess of
(less than) the carrying value by $351 and $(12).  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

35 

(8)  Short-Term Borrowings and
Lines of Credit  

Short-term borrowings and current
maturities of long-term debt are summarized as follows:  

In 2000, the Company issued 13 billion
Japanese yen of commercial paper and simultaneously entered into a 10-year
interest rate swap, which fixed the rate at 2.2 percent. This swap was
terminated in December 2008.  

To support short-term borrowings, the
Company maintains, but has not drawn on, a $2.8 billion, five-year, revolving
credit facility that expires in April 2011. The credit facility has no financial
covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change in credit ratings
or a material adverse change. There were no borrowings against U.S. lines of
credit in the last three years. The Company expects to renew the backup credit
facility in 2010.  

(9)  Long-Term
Debt  

Long-term debt is summarized as
follows:  

Long-term debt maturing during each of
the four years after 2010 is $66, $277, $500 and $250, respectively. Total
interest paid related to short-term borrowings and long-term debt was
approximately $230, $235 and $242 in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively.  

The Company has a universal shelf
registration statement on file with the SEC under which it could issue debt
securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts
and share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold
in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be
determined at the time of sale.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

36 

(10)  Retirement
Plans  

Retirement plan expense includes the
following components:  

Reconciliations of the actuarial present
value of the projected benefit obligations and of the fair value of plan assets
for defined benefit pension plans follow:  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

37 

Approximately $138 of the $1,692 of
losses deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30,
2009,     will be amortized into earnings in 2010.
Retirement plans in total were underfunded by $610 as of September 30, 2009.

As of the plans  September 30, 2009 and
June 30, 2008 measurement dates, the total accumulated benefit obligation was
$3,811 and $3,308, respectively. Also, as of the plans  respective measurement
dates, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for the retirement plans with accumulated benefit
obligations in excess of plan assets were $3,575, $3,383 and $2,974,
respectively, for September 30, 2009, and $1,127, $1,025 and $796, respectively,
for June 30, 2008.  

The weighted-average assumptions used in
the valuations of pension benefits were as follows:  

The discount rate for the U.S.
retirement plans was 5.50 percent as of September 30, 2009. Defined benefit
pension plan expense for fiscal 2010 is expected to be approximately $130,
versus $94 in 2009.  

The primary objective for the investment
of plan assets is to secure participant retirement benefits, while earning a
reasonable rate of return. Plan assets are invested consistent with the
provisions of the prudence and diversification rules of ERISA and with a
long-term investment horizon. The expected return on plan assets assumption is
determined by reviewing the investment returns of the plans for the past 10
years and the historical return (since 1926) of an asset mix approximating
Emerson s asset allocation targets and evaluating these returns in relation to
expectations of various investment organizations to determine whether long-term
future returns are expected to differ significantly from the past. The Company s
asset allocations at September 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, and weighted-average
target allocations are as follows:  

The Company estimates that future
benefit payments for the U.S. plans will be as follows: $147 in 2010, $155 in
2011, $163 in 2012, $171 in 2013, $180 in 2014 and $1,041 in total over the five
years 2015 through 2019. Using foreign currency exchange rates as of September
30, 2009, the Company estimates that future benefit payments for the non-U.S.
plans will be as follows: $41 in 2010, $36 in 2011, $35 in 2012, $40 in 2013,
$41 in 2014 and $246 in total over the five years 2015 through 2019. In 2010,
the Company expects to contribute approximately $250 to its retirement
plans.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

38 

(11)  Postretirement
Plans  

The Company sponsors unfunded
postretirement benefit plans (primarily health care) for U.S. retirees and their
dependents. The components of net postretirement plan expense for the years
ended September 30 follow:  

Reconciliations of the actuarial present
value of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations
follow:  

Approximately $1 of the $13 of losses
deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2009 will be
amortized into earnings in 2010. The assumed discount rates used in measuring
the obligations as of September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, were 5.00 percent, 6.50
percent and 6.00 percent, respectively. The assumed health care cost trend rate
for 2010 is 8.5 percent, declining to 5.0 percent in the year 2017. The assumed
health care cost trend rate for 2009 was 9.0 percent, declining to 5.0 percent
in the year 2017. A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the assumed
health care cost trend rate for each year would increase or decrease the
obligation as of September 30, 2009 and the 2009 postretirement plan expense by
less than 5 percent. The Company estimates that future health care benefit
payments will be as follows:  $43 in 2010, $47 in 2011, $48 in 2012,
$47 in 2013, $46 in 2014 and $208 in total over the five years 2015 through
2019.  

(12)  Contingent Liabilities
and Commitments  

Emerson is a party to a number of
pending legal proceedings and claims, including those involving general and
product liability and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts
of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that
future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs
can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are based on developments to date;
management s estimates of the outcomes of these matters; the Company s
experience in contesting, litigating and settling similar matters and any
related insurance coverage.  

Although it is not possible to predict
the ultimate outcome of the matters discussed above, the Company historically
has been successful in defending itself against claims and suits that have been
brought against it, and will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such
matters. While the Company believes a material adverse impact is unlikely, given
the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a
future development could have a material adverse impact on the
Company.  

The Company enters into certain
indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business in which the
indemnified party is held harmless and is reimbursed for losses incurred from
claims by third parties, usually up to a prespecified limit. In connection with
divestitures of certain assets or businesses, the Company often provides
indemnities to the buyer with respect to certain matters including, as examples,
environmental liabilities and unidentified tax liabilities related to periods
prior to the disposition. Because of the uncertain nature of the indemnities,
the maximum liability cannot be quantified. As such, liabilities are recorded
when they are both probable and reasonably estimable. Historically, payments
under indemnity arrangements have been inconsequential.  

At September 30, 2009, there were no
known contingent liabilities (including guarantees, pending litigation, taxes
and other claims) that management believes will be material in relation to the
Company s financial statements, nor were there any material commitments outside
the normal course of business.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

39 

(13)  Income
Taxes  

Pretax earnings from continuing
operations consist of the following:  

The principal components of income tax
expense follow:  

Reconciliations of the U.S. federal
statutory tax rate to the Company s effective tax rate
follow:  

Non-U.S. tax holidays reduce tax rates
in certain foreign jurisdictions and are expected to expire over the next six
years.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

40 

The principal items that gave rise to
deferred income tax assets and liabilities follow:  

At September 30, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, net current deferred tax assets were $290 and $328, and net
noncurrent deferred tax liabilities were $273 and $434. Total income taxes paid
were approximately $780, $1,110 and $960 in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
The capital loss carryforwards of $19 expire in 2012. The majority of the $279
net operating losses and tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely, while
the remainders expire over varying periods. Valuation allowances decreased $43
due primarily to recognition of a net operating loss carryforward resulting from
the restructuring of a foreign subsidiary.  

Effective October 1, 2007, the Company
adopted the recognition and disclosure provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (now part of ASC 740, Income
Taxes), which addresses the accounting for uncertain tax positions a company has
taken or expects to take when filing a tax return. As a result of adoption, the
Company recorded a charge of $6 to beginning retained earnings. Following are
reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances of unrecognized tax
  benefits before
recoverability of cross-jurisdictional tax credits (federal, state and non-U.S.)
and temporary differences.     The amount of unrecognized tax benefits
is not expected to significantly increase or decrease within the next 12
months.  

If none of the unrecognized tax benefits
shown is ultimately paid, the tax provision and the calculation of the effective
tax rate would be favorably impacted by $110. The Company accrues interest and
penalties related to income taxes in income tax expense. Total interest and
penalties recognized were $6 and $7 in 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of
September 30, 2009 and 2008, total accrued interest and penalties were $33 and
$27, respectively.  

The United States is the major
jurisdiction for which the Company files income tax returns. Examinations by the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service are substantially complete through fiscal 2007.
The status of state and non-U.S. tax examinations varies by the numerous legal
entities and jurisdictions in which the Company operates.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

41 

(14)  Stock-Based
Compensation  

The Company s stock-based compensation
plans include stock options, performance shares and restricted
stock.  

STOCK OPTIONS  

The Company s stock option plans permit
key officers and employees to purchase common stock at specified prices. Options
are granted at 100 percent of the average of the high and low prices of the
Company s common stock on the date of grant, generally vest one-third each year
and expire 10 years from the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized
ratably over the vesting period based on the number of options expected to vest.
At September 30, 2009, approximately 7.9 million options remained available for
grant under these plans.  

Changes in shares subject to option
during the year ended September 30, 2009, follow:  

The weighted-average grant date fair
value per share of options granted was $4.45, $10.59 and $9.31 for 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was $10,
$75 and $53 in 2009, 2008 and 2007,   respectively. Cash received for option
exercises under share option plans was $33, $73 and $60, and the actual tax
benefit   realized from tax
deductions related to option exercises was $7, $19 and $14 for 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.  

The grant date fair value of each award
is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Weighted-average
assumptions used in the Black-Scholes valuations for 2009, 2008 and 2007 are as
follows:  risk-free interest rate based on the U.S. Treasury yield of
2.4 percent, 4.1 percent and 4.6 percent; dividend yield of 4.2 percent, 2.0
percent and     2.4 percent; and expected volatility
based on historical volatility of 22 percent, 17 percent and 20 percent. The
expected life of an option is seven years based on historical experience and
expected future exercise patterns.  

PERFORMANCE SHARES AND RESTRICTED
STOCK  

The Company s incentive shares plans
include performance share awards which distribute common stock to key management
personnel subject to certain conditions and restrictions. Distributions are made
primarily in shares of common stock and partially in cash. Compensation expense
is recognized over the service period based on the number of awards expected to
be ultimately earned. Performance share awards are accounted for as liabilities
in accordance with FAS No. 123 (R),  Share-Based Payment  (now part of ASC 718,
Compensation   Stock Compensation), with compensation expense adjusted at the
end of each period to reflect the change in the fair value of the
awards.  

In 2008, as a result of the Company
achieving its performance objective at the end of 2007 and participants meeting
service requirements, 4,647,888 rights to receive common shares vested and were
distributed as follows: 2,693,922 issued in shares, 1,562,045 withheld for
income taxes, 313,222 paid in cash and 78,699 deferred by participants for
future distribution. As of September 30, 2009 and 2008, 5,055,800 and 5,008,800
rights to receive common shares (awarded primarily in 2007) were outstanding,
respectively, contingent on the Company achieving its performance objective
through 2010 and continued service by participants.  

Incentive shares plans also include
restricted stock awards, which involve distribution of common stock to key
management personnel subject to cliff vesting at the end of service periods
ranging from three to 10 years. The fair value of these awards is determined
based on the average of the high and low price of the Company s common stock on
the date of grant, with compensation expense recognized ratably over the
applicable service period. In 2009, 74,000 shares of restricted stock vested as
a result of participants fulfilling the applicable service requirements and were
distributed as follows: 58,576 issued in shares and 15,424 withheld for income
taxes. As of September 30, 2009, there were 1,913,000 shares of restricted stock
awards outstanding.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

42 

Changes in awards outstanding but not
yet earned under the incentive shares plans during the year ended     September 30, 2009
follow:  

The total fair value of shares
earned/vested was $3, $253 and $5, respectively, under the incentive shares
plans, of which $1, $104 and $2 was paid in cash, primarily for tax withholding,
in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of September 30, 2009, approximately
15.5 million shares remained available for award under the incentive shares
plans.  

Combined compensation expense for the
stock option and incentive shares plans was $54, $82 and $185, for 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. Expense in 2007 includes the full overlap of two
performance share programs during the year (2004 awards for performance through
2007 and 2007 awards for performance through 2010). The decrease in expense in
2008 reflects a partial overlap of performance share programs, as a portion of
the 2004 awards remained outstanding during the year, and a decline in the
Company s stock price. The decrease from 2008 to 2009 reflects no performance
share program overlap in 2009 and expense accrual at a lower overall performance
percentage. Total income tax benefits recognized in the income statement for
these compensation arrangements during 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $13, $21 and
$55, respectively. As of September 30, 2009, there was $101 of total
unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested awards granted under these
plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8
years.  

In addition to the stock option and
incentive shares plans, the Company issued 41,400 shares of restricted stock in
2009 under the restricted stock plan for non-management directors and 368,854
million shares remained available for issuance as of September 30,
2009.  

(15) Common Stock  

At September 30, 2009, approximately 45
million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the Company s
stock-based compensation plans. During 2009, 21.0 million common shares were
repurchased and     1.7 million treasury shares were
issued.  

(16)  Business Segment
Information  

The Company designs and supplies product
technology and delivers engineering services in a wide range of industrial,
commercial and consumer markets around the world. The segments of the Company
are organized primarily by the nature of the products and services provided. The
Process Management segment includes systems and software, measurement and
analytical instrumentation, valves, actuators and regulators, and services and
solutions that provide precision control, monitoring and asset optimization for
plants that produce power or that process fluids, such as petroleum, chemicals,
food and beverages, pulp and paper, and pharmaceuticals. The Industrial
Automation segment includes industrial motors and drives, power transmission and
materials handling equipment, alternators, materials joining and precision
cleaning, fluid power and control, and electrical distribution equipment, which
are used in a wide variety of manufacturing operations to provide integrated
manufacturing solutions to our customers. The Network Power segment designs,
manufactures, installs and maintains power systems, including power conditioning
and uninterruptible power supplies, embedded power supplies, precision cooling
systems, electrical switching equipment, and site monitoring systems for
telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications. The
Climate Technologies segment consists of compressors, temperature sensors and
controls, thermostats, flow controls, and remote monitoring services provided to
all areas of the climate control industry. The Appliance and Tools segment
includes general and special purpose motors and controls, appliances and
appliance components, plumbing tools,     and storage products used in a wide
variety of commercial and residential applications. The principal distribution
method for each segment is a direct sales force, although the Company also uses
independent sales representatives and distributors.  

The primary income measure used for
assessing segment performance and making operating decisions is earnings before
interest and income taxes. Intersegment sales approximate market prices.
Accounting method differences between segment reporting and the consolidated
financial statements include primarily management fees allocated to segments
based on a percentage of sales and the accounting for pension and other
retirement plans. Gains and losses from divestitures of businesses are included
in Corporate and other. Corporate assets include primarily cash and equivalents,
pensions, investments and certain fixed assets.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

43 

Summarized information about the
Company s operations by business segment and by geographic region
follows:  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

(See Notes 3, 4, 5 and
6)  

(a)     Corporate and other decreased from 2008
to 2009 primarily because of lower incentive stock compensation expense (see
Note 14) and lower commodity mark-to-market, partially offset by lower
nonrecurring gains. The decrease from 2007 to 2008 was primarily due to lower
incentive stock compensation expense, substantially offset by a number of items
including an increase in spending on corporate initiatives, higher commodity
hedging mark-to-market and a charge for in-process research and
development.  

GEOGRAPHIC  

Sales in China were $2,335, $2,252 and
$1,703 for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

44 

(17)  Other Financial
Data  

Items reported in earnings during the
years ended September 30 include the following:  

The Company leases facilities,
transportation and office equipment and various other items under operating
lease agreements. The minimum annual rentals under noncancelable long-term
leases, exclusive of maintenance, taxes, insurance and other operating costs,
will approximate $227 in 2010, $166 in 2011, $109 in 2012, $69 in 2013 and $47
in 2014.  

Other assets, other are summarized as
follows:  

The pension asset decreased and the
pension liability increased due to the decrease in funded status (see Note
10).  

Items reported in accrued expenses
include the following:  

Other liabilities are summarized as
follows:  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

45 

(18)  Quarterly Financial
Information (Unaudited)  

Earnings per share are computed
independently each period; as a result, the quarterly amounts may not sum to the
calculated annual figure.  

The operating results of the European
appliance motor and pump business for 2008 and Brooks for first quarter 2008 are
classified as discontinued operations. See Notes 3 and 4 for information
regarding the Company s acquisition and divestiture activities and non-recurring
items.  

Emerson Electric Co. common stock
(symbol EMR) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock
Exchange.  

Emerson
Annual Report 2009 

46 

Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders  

                           Emerson Electric
Co.:  

We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. and subsidiaries as of
September 30, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended September 30, 2009. We also have audited Emerson
Electric Co. s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30,
2009, based on the criteria established in   Internal
Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Emerson Electric Co. s
management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying   Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  . Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the
Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our
audits.  

We conducted our audits in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as
we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide
a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures     may deteriorate.  

In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Emerson Electric Co. and subsidiaries as of September
30, 2009 and 2008, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2009, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Emerson
Electric Co. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
over financial reporting as of September 30, 2009, based on the criteria
established in   Internal
Control   Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

As discussed in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements, effective September 30, 2007, the Company
changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other
postretirement plans due to the adoption of the recognition and disclosure
provisions FAS 158,    Employers 
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans    (now part of ASC
715, Compensation   Retirement Benefits). Also as discussed in Note 1 to the
consolidated financial statements, effective September 30, 2009, the Company
adopted the measurement date provision of ASC 715.  

Emerson Annual Report 2009

47 

Safe
Harbor Statement 

This
Annual Report contains various forward-looking statements and includes
assumptions concerning Emerson s operations, future results, and prospects.
These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, are subject
to risk and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any
such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the  safe
harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
Emerson provides the following cautionary statement identifying important
economic, political, and technological factors, among others, changes in which
could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set
forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related
assumptions. 

Such
factors include the following: (i) current and future business environment,
including interest rates, currency exchange rates and capital and consumer
spending; (ii) potential volatility of the end markets served; (iii) competitive
factors and competitor responses to Emerson initiatives; (iv) development and
market introduction of anticipated new products; (v) availability of raw
materials and purchased components; (vi) U.S. and foreign government laws and
regulations, including taxes and restrictions; (vii) outcome of pending and
future litigation, including environmental compliance; (viii) stability of
governments and business conditions in foreign countries,
including emerging economies, which could result in nationalization of
facilities or disruption of operations; (ix) penetration of emerging economies;
(x) favorable environment for acquisitions, domestic and foreign, including
regulatory requirements and market values of candidates; (xi) integration of
acquisitions; (xii) favorable access to capital markets; and (xiii) execution of
cost-reduction efforts. 

Emerson Annual Report 2009

48 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 v166921_ex21.htm

EXHIBIT
21 

      SUBSIDIARIES
AND AFFILIATES OF EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

      September
30, 2009 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

AIH,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

AIHL,
      LLC 

Delaware 

Astec
      America Inc. 

Delaware 

Astec
      Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
      International Holdings Limited 

Delaware/UK 

Astec
      International Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Astec
      Advanced Power Systems Ltda. 

Brazil 

Astec
      Advanced Power Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
      Advanced Power Systems (Penang) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Astec
      Agencies Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Astec
      Custom Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Astec
      Custom Power (Philippines) Inc. 

Philippines 

Astec
      Custom Power (Singapore) Pte Ltd 

Singapore 

Astec
      Electronics Company Limited 

China 

Astec
      Electronics (Luoding) Company Ltd. 

China 

Astec
      Nanjing Design Engineering Company 

China 

Astec
      Power Supply (Shenzhen) Company Ltd. 

China 

Astec
      Power Inc. 

BVI 

Astec
      Power Philippines, Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Power (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
      Network Power (Vietnam) Design Company Limited 

Vietnam 

Emerson
      Network  Power - Embedded Computing GmbH 

Germany 

EMR
      Holdings Limited 

Japan 

Stourbridge
      Holdings (U.K.) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mirroware
      Manufacturing Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Astec
      Europe Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Aperture
      Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Aperture
      International Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Aperture
      Technologies International, Inc. 

New
      York 

Applied
      Concepts, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

Artesyn
      Technologies, Inc. 

Florida 

Artesyn
      North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Artesyn
      Cayman LP 

Cayman
      Islands 

Artesyn
      International Ltd. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Artesyn
      Ireland Ltd. 

Cayman
      Islands 

Artesyn
      Technologies Asia Pacific, Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Artesyn
      Delaware, Inc. 

Delaware 

Artesyn
      Delaware LLC 

Delaware 

Artesyn
      Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Artesyn
      UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Artesyn
      Holding GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn
      Austria GmbH 

Austria 

Artesyn
      Austria GmbH   Co. KG 

Austria 

Artesyn
      Hungary Elektronikai kft 

Hungary 

Artesyn
      do Brasil Comercio de Produtos de Conversao de Energia
LTDA 

Brazil 

Artesyn
      Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn
      Elektronische Gerate Beteiligungs-und Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Artesyn
      GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Computing   Power S.A.R.L. 

France 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Computing, Inc. 

Wisconsin 

Artesyn
      Communication Products Scandinavia AB 

Sweden 

Artesyn
      Communication Products UK Ltd. 

Scotland 

Emerson
      Network Power - Embedded Computing UK Ltd. 

Scotland 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Bay-Tec
      Engineering, Inc. 

California 

B.B.I.,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Branson
      Ultrasonic S.A. 

Switzerland 

Bristol,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

California
      Emerson LLC 

Delaware 

ClosetMaid
      Corporation 

Florida 

Clairson,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

ClosetMaid
      de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

ClosetMaid
      North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Compania
      de Motores Domesticos S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Computational
      Systems, Incorporated 

Tennessee 

CSI
      Technology, Inc. 

Delaware 

Controles
      Electromecanicos de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Control
      Techniques Iberia S.A. 

Spain 

Cooligy
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Automation, Inc. 

Delaware 

Bettis
      Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Bettis
      France SARL 

France 

Bettis
      Holdings, Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Bettis
      UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Prime
      Actuator Control Systems Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Prime
      Actuator Control Systems UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Dantorque
      A/S 

Denmark 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Actuation LLC 

Delaware 

Hytork
      Controls, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Automation Company 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Industrial, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      En-Fab Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      International Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Industries Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek
      Holdings Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek
      UK Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Measurement Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Spectra-Tek
      International Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Greenfield
      (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Daniel
      Measurement and Control, Inc. 

Delaware 

Daniel
      Industries Canada Inc. 

Canada 

Daniel
      Measurement Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Metco
      Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Metco
      Services Venezuela, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Danmasa
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Hytork
      International Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Hytork
      Controls, Inc. 

Florida 

Hytork
      Controls Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Hytork
      LLC 

Delaware 

Hytork
      Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

DEAS
      Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Decision
      Management International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Decision
      Management International, Inc. 

Florida 

EDAS
      (I) U.K. Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EDAS
      (II) U.K. Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EECO,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Apple
      JV Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS
      Electrical Group LLC 

Delaware 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Appleton
      Electric LLC 

Delaware 

Appleton
      Electric, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Appleton
      Holding Corp. 

Delaware 

EGS
      Electrical Group Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Easy
      Heat Ltd. 

Canada 

EGS
      Participacoes Ltda. 

Brazil 

Easy
      Heat, Inc. 

Delaware 

Easy
      Heat Holding B.V. 

Netherlands 

Easy
      Heat Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

EGS
      Electrical Group Romania S.R.L. 

Romania 

EGS
      Holding S.A.R.L. 

France 

ATX
      S.A. 

France 

EGS
      Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

EGS
      Private Ltd. 

Singapore 

GSEG
      LLC 

Delaware 

O-Z
      Gedney Company LLC 

Delaware 

Electrical
      Reliability Services, Inc. 

California 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Computer
      Process Controls, Inc. 

Georgia 

Emerson
      Retail Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Clive
      Samuels   Associates, Inc. 

New
      Jersey 

Emerson
      Climate Services, LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland
      Access +, Inc. 

Delaware 

Copeland
      Corporation LLC 

Delaware 

Copeland
      de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (India) Limited 

India 

Copeland
      Redevelopment Corporation 

Missouri 

CR
      Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll
      Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Scroll
      Mexico LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electric (U.S.) Holding Corporation 

Delaware 

Automatic
      Switch Company 

Delaware 

ASC
      Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Asco
      Controls AG 

Switzerland 

Asco
      Controls B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco
      Mideast B.V. 

Netherlands 

Asco
      Magnesszelep Kft. 

Hungary 

Asco/Joucomatic
      sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Asco/Joucomatic
      s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Asco
      Joucomatic ZA BV 

Netherlands 

ASCO/NUMATICS
      GmbH 

Switzerland 

Ascomation
      Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
      Numatics Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
      Valve Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Ascomation
      (NZ) Ltd. 

New
      Zealand 

Asco
      Numatics (NZ) Limited 

New
      Zealand 

Sirai
      Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Asco
      AB 

Sweden 

Asco
      (India) Limited 

India 

ASCO
      Japan Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Ascomatica
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Asco
      Services, Inc. 

New
      Jersey 

ASCO
      Switch Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Power Technologies, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Valve Enterprises LLC 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Valve, Inc. 

Delaware 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

ASCO
      Controls, L.P. 

Delaware 

ASCO
      Valve Manufacturing, LLC 

Delaware 

Ascoval
      Industria E Commercio Ltda. 

Brazil 

Branson
      Ultrasonics Corporation 

Delaware 

Branson
      Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Branson
      Ultrasonidos S.A.E. 

Spain 

Branson
      Ultrasons S.A.S. 

France 

El-O-Matic
      GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Refrigeration S.A. 

Belgium 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies S.A. 

Belgium 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies s.a.r.l. 

France 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies S.r.L. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Dietzenbach GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Electric GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Electric GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

Emerson
      Electric Overseas Finance Corp. 

Delaware 

Motores
      U.S. de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

U.S.E.M.
      de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Europe S.A. 

France 

Asco
      Joucomatic S.A. 

France 

Asco
      Joucomatic GmbH 

Germany 

Asco
      Numatics S.p.A. 

Italy 

Fluidocontrol
      S.A. 

Spain 

Joucomatic
      S.A. 

Belgium 

Sotrac
      S.r.l. 

Italy 

Company
      Financiere de Chausey, SA 

France 

Emerson
      Network Power Energy Systems S.A. 

France 

Emerson
      Energy Systems EURL 

France 

Francel
      S.A. 

France 

Leroy-Somer
      S.A. 

France 

Bertrand
      Polico SAS 

France 

Comercial
      Leroy-Somer Ltda. 

Chile 

Constructions
      Electriques DeBeaucourt SAS 

France 

ESO
      S.A.S 

France 

ABME
      SARL 

France 

BEI
      Roanne SARL 

France 

BEI
      SARL 

France 

Belzon
      et Richardot SARL 

France 

Cargnelli
      SAS 

France 

Cocard
      SARL 

France 

DME
      SARL 

France 

EMC
      SARL 

France 

Houssin
      SARL 

France 

Lorraine
      Service SARL 

France 

Maintenance
      Industrie Service Provence SARL 

France 

MEZIERES
      SARL 

France 

Michel
      SARL 

France 

MIS
      Rennes SARL 

France 

MIS
      SARL 

France 

MIS
      SIBE SARL 

France 

MIS
      SPIRE SARL 

France 

Navarre
      Services SARL 

France 

OES
      SARL 

France 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Oury
      SARL 

France 

Paillet
      Service SARL 

France 

Prevost
      SARL 

France 

Radiel
      Bobinage SARL 

France 

Silvain
      SARL 

France 

Sorem
      SARL 

France 

Sud
      Maintenance SARL 

France 

Suder
      SARL 

France 

Wieprecht
      CF SARL 

France 

Wieprecht
      Rodez SARL 

France 

Etablissements
      Trepeau SAS 

France 

Girard
      Transmissions SAS 

France 

I.M.I
      Kft 

Hungary 

La
      Francaise de Manutention SAS 

France 

Leroy-Somer
      Denmark A/S 

Denmark 

Leroy-Somer
      Elektomekanik Sistemler Ticaret Ltd. STI 

Turkey 

Leroy-Somer
      Iberica S.A. 

Spain 

Teilsa
      Servicios, S.L. 

Spain 

Leroy-Somer
      Ltd. 

Greece 

Leroy-Somer
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Leroy-Somer
      Marbaise GmbH 

Germany 

Leroy-Somer
      Motores E Sistemas Electro Mecanicas CDA 

Portugal 

Leroy-Somer
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

Leroy-Somer
      Norden AB 

Sweden 

Leroy-Somer
      Norge A/S 

Norway 

Leroy-Somer
      NV 

Belgium 

Muyle
      Electro-Machinery SA 

Belgium 

Leroy-Somer
      Finland OY 

Finland 

Leroy-Somer
      (Pty) Ltd. (South Africa) 

South
      Africa 

Leroy-Somer
      (Pty) Ltd. 

Australia 

Leroy-Somer
      S.E.A. Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Leroy-Somer
      SA 

Switzerland 

Leroy-Somer
      S.p.A. 

Italy 

E.M.S.
      Elettro Multi Service Srl 

Italy 

M.L.S.
      Holice spol. s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

MLS
      Industries Inc. 

Delaware 

Yorba
      Linda International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Moteurs
      Leroy-Somer S.A. 

France 

Moteurs
      Patay SAS 

France 

Societe
      Anonyme de Mecanique et D outillage du Vivarais S.A. 

France 

Societe
      Confolentaise de Metallurgie SAS 

France 

Societe
      de Mecanique et D Electrothermie des Pays de L'Adour SAS 

France 

Emerson
      Network Power SA 

France 

Ridgid
      France SAS 

France 

Emerson
      Process Management GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Process Management GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

epro
      GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Process Management Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Retail Services Europe GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Technologies Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Technologies GmbH   Co. 

Germany 

Emersub
      LXXXIV, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
      LXXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Marbaise
      Hanlo LS GmbH 

Germany 

Ridge
      Tool GmbH 

Germany 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Ridge
      Tool GmbH   Co. OHG 

Germany 

RIDGID
      Peddinghaus Werkzeug GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount
      Inc. 

Minnesota 

Control
      Techniques - Americas, Inc. 

Delaware 

Control
      Techniques - Americas LLC 

Delaware 

Fincor
      Holding, LLC 

Delaware 

Dieterich
      Standard, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Process Management A/S (Denmark) 

Denmark 

Emerson
      Process Management AS 

Norway 

Emerson
      Process Management Holding AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      Process Management AG 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      EAD 

Bulgaria 

Emerson
      LLC 

Azerbaijan 

Emerson
      LLC 

Ukraine 

Emerson
      LLP 

Kazakhstan 

Emerson
      Process Management Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
      Process Management Romania S.R.L. 

Romania 

Emerson
      Process Management sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
      Process Management Ticaret Limited Sirketi 

Turkey 

Emerson
      Process Management, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Emerson
      Process Management, s.r.o. 

Slovakia 

FR
      af 13.august 1999 A/S 

Denmark 

Emerson
      Process Management Power and Water Solutions Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
      Process Management Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Process Management Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Process Management (Shanghai) International Trading Co.
    Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Automation (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Process Management (India) Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Emerson
      Process Management Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
      Process Management, S.L. 

Spain 

Emerson
      Process Management Oy 

Finland 

P I
      Components Corp. 

Texas 

Rosemount
      Analytical Inc. 

Delaware 

Rosemount
      China Inc. 

Minnesota 

Rosemount
      Nuclear Instruments, Inc. 

Delaware 

Xomox
      Uruguay S.A. 

Uruguay 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Corporation 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Chain, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Drives and Components, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Manufacturing 

Missouri 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Ithaca, Inc. 

Delaware 

Rollway
      Bearing International Ltd. 

Delaware 

Rollway
      Bearing N.V. 

Belgium 

EPT
      Investments, Inc. 

Delaware 

McGill
      Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Indiana 

Emerson
      Power Transmission Bearings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
      Corporation 

Ohio 

Alber
      Corp. 

Florida 

Atlas
      Asia Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Emerson
      Network Power Software (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Atlas
      Air Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
      Network Power (Hong Kong) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Wuhan
      Liebert Computer Power Support System Limited 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power (India) Private Limited 

India 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Leroy
      Somer India Private Limited 

India 

Emerson
      Network Power, Liebert Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Network Power (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. 

Malaysia 

Knuerr
      Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Spectra
      Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Network Power Surge Protection, Inc. 

New
      York 

Emerson
      Network Power (Thailand) Co. Ltd. 

Thailand 

Liebert
      Field Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
      North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Liebert
      Property Holdings, LLC 

Delaware 

Liebert
      Tecnologia Ltda. 

Brazil 

Micro
      Motion, Inc. 

Colorado 

Ridge
      Tool Company 

Ohio 

Ridge
      Tool (Australia) Pty., Ltd. 

Australia 

Ridge
      Tool Manufacturing Company 

Delaware 

Ridge
      Tool Pattern Company 

Delaware 

Ridgid,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Ridgid
      Italia Srl 

Italy 

Ridgid
      Online, Inc. 

Ohio 

Ridgid
      Werkzeuge AG 

Switzerland 

Therm-O-Disc,
      Incorporated 

Ohio 

Componentes
      Avanzados de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Controles
      de Temperatura S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

E.G.P.
      Corporation 

Delaware 

Emermex
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Arabia, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      4 LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Capital (Canada) Corporation 

Canada 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Electric (Asia) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Branson
      Ultrasonics (Asia Pacific) Co. Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Emerson
      Electric (South Asia) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Technology Service (Shenzhen) Co. 

China 

Emerson
      Electric II, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson
      Electric de Colombia Ltda. 

Colombia 

Emerson
      Electric International, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electric Ireland Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Emersub
      Treasury Ireland 

Ireland 

Emerson
      Electric (Mauritius) Ltd. 

Mauritius 

Emerson
      Electric Co. (India) Private Ltd. 

India 

Westinghouse
      Electric Private Ltd. (Mauritius) 

Mauritius 

Emerson
      Process Management Power   Water Solutions India Private
      Limited 

India 

Emerson
      Electric Nederland B.V. 

Netherlands 

Aegir
      Norge Holding AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      ASA 

Norway 

CorrOcean
      Mareco AS 

Norway 

Corrocean
      Srl 

Italy 

PolyOil
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

RFM
      Holding AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement Inc. 

Texas 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Roxar
      Flow Measurement Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Roxar
      International AS 

Norway 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Roxar
      Nigeria Ltd. 

Nigeria 

Roxar
      Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Roxar
      Saudi Company 

Saudi
      Arabia 

Roxar
      Holding AS 

Norway 

Energy
      Scitech Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Roxar
      Xworks AS 

Norway 

RSS
      Software Holding AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Roxar
      de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Roxar
      de Venezuela SA 

Venezuela 

Roxar
      Inc. 

Texas 

Roxar
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Roxar
      Maximum Reservoir Performance WLL 

Bahrain 

Roxar
      Services AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Services OOO 

Russia 

Roxar
      Software Solutions AS 

Norway 

Roxar
      Strategic Staffing S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Roxar
      Vietnam Company Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Alco
      Controls spol. s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Branson
      Ultrasonics B.V. 

Netherlands 

Beckman
      Industrial B.V. 

Netherlands 

Damcos
      Holding A/S 

Denmark 

Damcos
      A/S. 

Denmark 

Emerson
      Process Management Marine Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
      Process Management Marine Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

El-O-Matic
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

El-O-Matic
      Valve Actuators (F.E.) Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Emerson
      Process Management (South Africa) (Proprietary) Ltd. 

South
      Africa 

Electrische
      Apparantenfabriek Capax B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      a.s. 

Slovakia 

Emerson
      LLC 

Russia 

Emerson
      S.R.L. 

Romania 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Emerson
      Electric spol. s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Emerson
      Network Power Pakistan (Private) Limited 

Pakistan 

Emerson
      Network Power (Vietnam) Co. Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
      Process Management B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Process Management (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

EMRSN
      HLDG B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Network Power B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Process Management Flow B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fisher
      Rosemount Temperature B.V. 

Netherlands 

Fusite,
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

Ortrud
      Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 

Germany 

Knurr-Holding
      GmbH 

Germany 

Knurr
      AG 

Germany 

Knurr
      AB 

Sweden 

Knurr
      AG 

Switzerland 

Knurr
      AG   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Knurr
      BV 

Netherlands 

Knurr
      Electronics GmbH 

Germany 

Knurr
      Electronics GmbH   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 

Germany 

Knurr-Ercotec
      GmbH   Grundstucksverwaltung KG 

Germany 

Knurr
      Electronics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Knurr
      Holding Ltda. 

Brazil 

Knuerr
      Ltda. 

Brazil 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Knurr
      Innovation GmbH 

Germany 

Knurr
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Knurr
      Lommatec Mechanik fur die Elektronik Beteiligungs und Verwaltungs
      GmbH 

Germany 

Knurr
      s.a.r.l. 

France 

Knurr
      s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Knurr
      Technical Furniture GmbH 

Germany 

Knurr-Ercotec
      GmbH 

Germany 

Knurr
      International GmbH 

Germany 

Therm-O-Disc
      Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Therm-O-Disc
      (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 

Vietnam 

Emerson
      Electric Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electric (Taiwan) Company Limited 

Taiwan 

Emerson
      Finance LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Global Finance Company 

Missouri 

Emerson
      Middle East, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power, Energy Systems, North America, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Network Power Exportel, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Network Power, Inc. 

Texas 

Emerson
      Sice S.r.l. 

Italy 

Branson
      Ultrasuoni S.r.l. 

Italy 

CDZ.T
      s.r.l. 

Italy 

Dixell
      S.p.A. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Network Power Holding S.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Network Power S.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Network Power Sp. Z.o.o. 

Poland 

Liebert
      Hiross Holding GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Network Power GmbH 

Germany 

Emerson
      Network Power Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
      Process Management S.r.l. 

Italy 

Sirai
      Elettromeccanica s.r.l. 

Italy 

System
      Plast S.p.A. 

Italy 

System
      Plast GmbH 

Germany 

System
      Plast International BV 

Netherlands 

System
      Plast, LLC 

North
      Carolina 

SPPA
      LLC 

Pennsylvania 

Solus
      Industrial Innovations, LLC 

Delaware 

Solus
      Industrial Innovations BV 

Netherlands 

System
      Plast USA de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

System
      Plast Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

System
      Plast Ltda. 

Brazil 

System
      Plast S.A. 

France 

Target
      Mold s.r.l. 

Italy 

Emerson
      Telecommunication Products, LLC 

Delaware 

JTP
      Industries, Inc. 

Delaware 

Dura-Line
      Espana, S.L. 

Spain 

Dura-Line
      Iberia, S.L. 

Spain 

Dura-Line
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

OOO
      Dura-Line 

Russia 

Emerson
      Network Power Connectivity Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Electronic Connector and Components do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Mexico Corporate Services S de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

LoDan
      de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

LoDan
      West do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

O.O.O.
      Viewsonics 

Russia 

Stratos
      International, Inc. 

Delaware 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Advanced
      Interconnection Technology LLC 

Delaware 

Paracer,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Rapidwerks
      LLC 

Delaware 

Sterling
      Holding Company 

Delaware 

Quality
      Components, Inc. 

Delaware 

Semflex,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Swiss
      Precision Products, Inc. 

Delaware 

TQ
      Management Corporation 

Delaware 

Trompeter
      Electronics, Inc. 

Delaware 

STRATOS
      Lightwave, LLC 

Delaware 

Stratos
      Lightwave-Florida Incorporated 

Delaware 

Stratos
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Stratos
      Lightwave UK Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Tsunami
      Optics, Inc. 

California 

Viewsonics
      do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Vitelec
      Electronics Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Engineered
      Endeavors, Inc. 

Delaware 

Engineered
      Endeavors do Brasil, Ltda. 

Brazil 

Engineered
      Endeavors do Brasil Servicos Ltda. 

Brazil 

Northern
      Technologies, Inc. 

Idaho 

Emerson
      Venezuela C.A. 

Venezuela 

Emerson
      Ventures Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      WFC, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      3 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      13 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      14 LLC 

Delaware 

Vilter
      Manufacturing LLC 

Wisconsin 

Emersub
      CII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      XLVI, Inc. 

Nevada 

Copesub,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Alliance
      Compressors LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      LII, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      XCI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      Italia Srl 

Italy 

International
      Gas Distribution S.A. 

Luxembourg 

O.M.T
      Officina Meccanica Tartarini S.r.l. 

Italy 

Fisher
      Process Srl 

Italy 

EMR
      Foundation, Inc. 

Missouri 

EMR
      Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Branson
      de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
      Compresores Hermeticos, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
      Korea, Inc. 

Korea 

EMR
      Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Appliance Solutions (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies Australia Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
      DHC B.V. 

Netherlands 

Emerson
      Electric (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub
      7 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      8 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      9 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      10 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      11 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      12 LLC 

Delaware 

EMR
      (Mauritius) Ltd. 

Mauritius 

Trident
      Powercraft Private Limited 

India 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Emerson
      d.o.o. 

Croatia 

Emerson
      Electric Canada Limited 

Canada 

Emerson
      Electric Chile Ltda. 

Chile 

Emerson
      Electric de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Ascotech,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Electric do Brasil Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Comercio em Tecnologia de Climatizacao Ltda 

Brazil 

Emerson
      Electric Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      (China) Motor Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Co. Ltd. 

China 

EMR
      Emerson Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 

Switzerland 

EMR
      (Asia) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Emerson
      Electric (China) Holdings Co., Ltd. 

China 

ASCO
      Valve (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Beijing
      Rosemount Far East Instrument Co., Ltd. 

China 

Branson
      Ultrasonics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

ClosetMaid
      (Jiangmen) Storage Limited 

China 

Emerson
      Beijing Instrument Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Refrigeration Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Research   Development Co.,
      Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Electric (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      eResource (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Fusite Electric (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Junkang Enterprise (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Machinery   Equipment (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power Connectivity Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power Co., Ltd. (f/k/a/ Avansys) 

China 

Emerson
      Power Transmission (Zhangzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Flow Technologies Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Power   Water Solutions Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management (Tianjin) Valves Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Process Management Valve Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd .  

China 

Emerson
      Professional Tools (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Fisher
      Jeon Gas Equipment (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Fisher
      Regulators (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Leroy
      Somer Electro-Technique (Fuzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Network Power (Jiangmen)  Co., Ltd. 

China 

Emerson
      Electric Korea Ltd. 

Korea 

Emerson
      Electric (M) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Electric Poland Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

FZN
      Marbaise LS Sp. z.o.o. 

Poland 

Emerson
      Energy Systems Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Emerson
      Holding Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Sweden AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Network Power Energy Systems AB 

Sweden 

Rosemount
      Tank Radar AB 

Sweden 

Emerson
      Process Management Marine Solutions Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Rosemount
      Tank Gauging India Pvt. Ltd. 

India 

Rosemount
      Tank Gauging Middle East SPC 

Bahrain 

SF-Control
      OY 

Finland 

Emerson
      Network Power del Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

Emerson
      Network Power Limited 

Nigeria 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Emerson
      Network Power (Philippines), Inc. 

Philippines 

Emerson
      Network Power (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd 

South
      Africa 

Emerson
      Laminaciones de Acero de Monterrey, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Network Power, S. A. 

Spain 

Jaure,
      S.A. 

Spain 

Emerson
      Process Management Costa Rica S.R.L. 

Costa
      Rica 

Emerson
      Process Management Europe GmbH 

Switzerland 

Emerson
      Process Management Magyarorszag Kft. 

Hungary 

Emerson
      Process Management NV 

Belgium 

PI
      Components NV 

Belgium 

Emerson
      Puerto Rico, Inc. 

Puerto
      Rico 

Emerson
      Sistemas de Energia Ltda. 

Brazil 

Emerson
      (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Emersub
      5 LLC 

Delaware 

Emersub
      Mexico, Inc. 

Nevada 

ClosetMaid
      Reynosa S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Copeland
      Scroll Compresores de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Daniel
      Measurement   Control, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerpowsys,
      S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Electronic Connector and Components, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Network Power Embedded Computing, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Tool and Appliance Company, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emerson
      Tool Company de Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
      1 LLC 

Delaware 

Intermetro
      de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Emersub
      XXXVI, Inc. 

Delaware 

Digital
      Appliance Controls (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques GmbH 

Germany 

Reta
      Anlagenbau GmbH 

Germany 

Control
      Techniques Asia-Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Control
      Techniques Drives (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Control
      Techniques Singapore Pte Limited 

Singapore 

Control
      Techniques Australia Pty Ltd. 

Australia 

Control
      Techniques Bermuda Limited 

Bermuda 

Control
      Techniques Drives Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques Dynamics Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Evershed
      Powerotor Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Moore
      Reed   Company Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Control
      Techniques Southern Africa (Pty.) Limited 

South
      Africa 

Control
      Techniques SpA 

Italy 

Control
      Techniques Worldwide BV 

Netherlands 

Control
      Techniques AG 

Switzerland 

Control
      Techniques BV 

Netherlands 

Control
      Techniques Brno s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Control
      Techniques China Pte. Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Control
      Techniques AS 

Denmark 

Control
      Techniques Endustriyel Control Sistemieri Sanayii Ve Ticaret
      A.S. 

Turkey 

Control
      Techniques India Limited 

India 

Control
      Techniques Elpro Automation Limited 

India 

DriveShop
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Electric
      Drives Limited 

Ireland 

Electric
      Drives Manufacturing Ltd. 

Ireland 

Foray
      600 Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Foray
      606 Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Holding Company Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Asco
      Joucomatic Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Asco
      Power Technologies Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Joucomatic
      Controls Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Sotrac
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Temple
      Instruments Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Bristol
      Babcock Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Computational
      Systems Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Copeland
      Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

CSA
      Consulting Engineers, Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

El-O-Matic
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Electric U.K. Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Bray
      Lectroheat Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Buehler
      Europe Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

BannerScientific
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Buehler
      UK Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Metaserve
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Metallurgical
      Services Laboratories Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      FZE 

UAE 

Emerson
      Climate Technologies FZE 

UAE 

Emerson
      Network Power Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Hiross
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Liebert
      Swindon Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Energy Systems (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Network Power Connectivity Solutions Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Midwest
      Microwave Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Distribution Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Fisher-Rosemount
      Properties Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Shared Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

F-R
      Properties (UK) Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

EMR
      Barnstaple Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      Process Management Services Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Emerson
      UK Trustees Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Fisher
      Controls Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Farris
      Engineering Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

Fisher
      Governor Company Ltd. 

United
      Kingdom 

MDC
      Technology Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

MDC
      Technology Trustees Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mobrey
      Group Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mobrey
      Overseas Sales Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Mobrey
      S.A./N.V. 

Belgium 

Mobrey
      Sp. Z.o.o. 

Poland 

Mobrey
      SA 

France 

Mobrey
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Oaksmere
      Refrigeration Design   Consultancy Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Pactrol
      Controls Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

S R
      Drives Manufacturing Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Switched
      Reluctance Drives Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Reluctance
      Motors Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

F-R
      Technologias de Flujo, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Fisher-Rosemount
      Peru S.A.C. 

Peru 

Motores
      Reynosa, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Motoreductores
      U.S., S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

NetworkPower
      Ecuador S.A. 

Ecuador 

PT
      Emerson Indonesia 

Indonesia 

RAC
      Technologies (Israel) Ltd. 

Israel 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Rey-Lam,
      S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Rotores
      S.A. de C.V. Rotores S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Saab
      Rosemount Marine Korea Co., Ltd. 

Korea 

Termotec
      de Chihuahua S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tranmet
      Holdings Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Tranmet
      Holdings B.V. 

Netherlands 

Industrial
      Group Metran CJSC 

Russia 

Metran-Export
      CJSC 

Russia 

Firma
      Metran LLC 

Russia 

Metran
      Sensor LLC 

Russia 

EPMCO
      Holdings, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Regulator Technologies, Inc. 

Delaware 

Fromex,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Fisher
      Controls International LLC 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

Emerson
      Electric Australia Co. Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Emerson
      Process Management New Zealand Limited 

New
      Zealand 

Emerson
      Process Management China Ltd. 

Hong
      Kong 

Fisher
      Controls De Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Instrument
        Valve Services Company 

Delaware 

Nippon
      Fisher Co. Ltd. 

Japan 

Fisco
      Ltd. (Fisco Kabushiki Kaisha) 

Japan 

Fisher-Rosemount
      Systems, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management LLLP 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management Dominicana, S.A. 

Dominican
      Republic 

Emerson
      Process Management Power   Water Solutions, Inc. 

Delaware 

Emerson
      Process Management S.A.S. 

France 

Emerson
      Process Management, Lda 

Portugal 

Fiberconn
      Assemblies Morocco S.A.R.L. 

Morocco 

Fusite
      Corporation 

Ohio 

Emerson
      Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Fusite
      Land Company 

Delaware 

General
      Equipment and Manufacturing Company, Inc. 

Kentucky 

TopWorx
      UK Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

TopWorx
      PTE Ltd. 

Singapore 

Twist-Set
      Controls (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

TopWorx
      IC-Disc, Inc. 

Delaware 

Globe
      Acquisition Corporation 

Delaware 

High
      Voltage Maintenance Corporation 

Ohio 

Hiross
      India Private Limited 

India 

Humboldt
      Hermetic Motor Corp. 

Delaware 

Woodstock
      Land Company, LLC 

Missouri 

Kato
      Engineering Inc. 

Delaware 

Knaack
      LLC 

Delaware 

Kop-Flex,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Kop-Flex
      Canada Limited 

Canada 

Lionville
      Systems, Inc. 

Pennsylvania 

Flo
      Healthcare Solutions, LLC 

Georgia 

Med-Dispense,
      L.P. 

Delaware 

Metaloy,
      Inc. 

Massachusetts 

Metropolitan
      International, Inc. 

Nevada 

InterMetro
      Industries Corporation 

Nevada 

InterMetro
      Industries Corporation 

Delaware 

InterMetro
      Industries B.V. 

Netherlands 

Metro
      Industries, Inc. 

Nevada 

Metropolitan
      Wire (Canada) Ltd. 

Canada 

LEGAL NAME  

JURISDICTION OF 

                   INCORPORATION  

Metropolitan
      Wire Corporation 

Pennsylvania 

Motores
      Hermeticos del Sur, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Numatics,
      Incorporated 

Michigan 

Asco
      Numatics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 

Taiwan 

Numatics
      de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Numatics
      GmbH 

Germany 

Numatics
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Ultra
      Air Products, Inc. 

Michigan 

PC
        E, Inc. 

Missouri 

ProTeam,
      Inc. 

Idaho 

ProTeam
      (China) Limited 

China 

Ridge
      Tool Europe NV 

Belgium 

Ridgid
      Scandinavia A/S 

Denmark 

Von
      Arx AG 

Switzerland 

Von
      Arx GmbH 

Germany 

Rosemount
      Tank Gauging North America, Inc. 

Texas 

TAG,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Emersub
      6 LLC 

Delaware 

The
      Automation Group, L.P. 

Texas 

Termocontroles
      de Juarez S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

The
      Sulton Company, Inc. 

Delaware 

Tescom
      Corporation 

Minnesota 

Tescom,
      LLC 

Minnesota 

Hankuk
      Tescom Ltd. 

Korea 

Tescom
      Europe Management GmbH 

Germany 

Tescom
      Europe GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Thunderline
      Z, Inc. 

Delaware 

Transmisiones
      de Potencia Emerson S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Wiegand
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 v166921_ex23.htm

Exhibit
23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board
of Directors 

      Emerson
Electric Co.: 

We
consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.
333-154362, 333-154361, 333-152917, 333-152916, 333-118591, 333-118589,
333-90240, 333-46919, and 33-38805 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos.
333-155674, 333-110546, 333-52658, 333-84673 and 333-66865 on Form S-3 of
Emerson Electric Co. of our report dated November 23, 2009, with respect to the
consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. as of September 30, 2009 and
2008, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity,
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September
30, 2009, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as
of September 30, 2009, which report is incorporated by reference in the
September 30, 2009 annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
Co. 

Our
report refers to a change in the method of accounting for pension and other
postretirement benefits in 2007 and in 2009.  

/s/ KPMG
LLP  

St.
Louis, Missouri 

      November
23, 2009 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 v166921_ex24.htm

Exhibit
24 

POWER OF
ATTORNEY 

The
undersigned members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers of Emerson
Electric Co., a Missouri corporation with principal offices at 8000 West
Florissant Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri, 63136, hereby appoint W. J. Galvin as
their Attorney-in-Fact for the purpose of signing Emerson Electric Co.'s
Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K (and any and all Amendments
thereto) for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. 

Dated:
October 6, 2009 

Signature  

Title  

/s/     D. N. Farr  

Chairman
      of the Board, Chief Executive Officer 

D.
      N. Farr 

and
      President 

/s/     W. J. Galvin  

Senior
      Executive Vice President, Chief Financial 

W.
      J. Galvin 

Officer
      and Director 

/s/     R. J. Schlueter  

Vice
      President and Chief Accounting Officer 

R.
      J. Schlueter 

/s/     C. A. H. Boersig  

Director 

C.
      A. H. Boersig 

/s/     A. A. Busch III  

Director 

A.
      A. Busch III 

/s/     C. Fernandez G.  

Director 

C.
      Fernandez G. 

/s/     A. F. Golden  

Director 

A.
      F. Golden 

/s/     H. Green  

Director 

H.
      Green 

/s/     R. B. Horton  

Director 

R.
      B. Horton 

/s/     W. R. Johnson  

Director 

W.
      R. Johnson 

/s/     V. R. Loucks, Jr.  

Director 

V.
      R. Loucks, Jr. 

/s/     C. A. Peters  

Director 

C.
      A. Peters 

/s/     J. W. Prueher  

Director 

J.
      W. Prueher 

/s/     R. L. Ridgway  

Director 

R.
      L. Ridgway 

/s/     R. L. Stephenson  

Director 

R.
      L. Stephenson 

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 7
 v166921_ex31.htm

Exhibit
31 

Certification 

I, D. N. Farr, certify
that:  

1.  I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
Co.; 

2.  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

a)  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:  

a)  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and 

b)  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
      November 23, 2009 

/s/ D. N. Farr  

D.
      N. Farr 

Chairman
      of the Board, 

Chief
      Executive Officer and President 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

Certification 

I, W. J.
Galvin, certify that: 

1.  I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric
Co.; 

2.  Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading
with respect to the period covered by this report; 

3.  Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and
for, the periods presented in this report; 

4.  The
registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
have: 

a)  Designed
such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries,
is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the
period in which this report is being prepared; 

b)  Designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles; 

c)  Evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this
report based on such evaluation; and 

d)  Disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 

5.  The registrant s other
certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of
directors:   

a)  All
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and
report financial information; and  

b)  Any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
      November 23, 2009 

/s/ W. J. Galvin  

W.
      J. Galvin 

Vice
      Chairman and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 8
 v166921_ex32.htm

Exhibit
32 

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 

      EXCHANGE
ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 

      18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350 

In
connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on
Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2009, as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, D. N. Farr,
certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b)
and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that: 

(1) 

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

(2)  

The information contained in the
      Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
      and results of operations of the
  Company.  

/s/ D. N. Farr  

D.
      N. Farr 

Chairman
      of the Board, 

Chief
      Executive Officer and President 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

November
      23, 2009 

CERTIFICATION
PURSUANT TO 

        EXCHANGE
ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 

        18 U.S.C.
SECTION 1350 

In
connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the  Company ) on
Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2009, as filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, W. J. Galvin,
certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b)
and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that: 

(1) 

The
      Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
      the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
and 

(2)  

The information contained in the
      Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
      and results of operations of the
  Company.  

/s/ W. J. Galvin  

W.
      J. Galvin 

Vice
      Chairman and 

Chief
      Financial Officer 

Emerson
      Electric Co. 

November
      23, 2009 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 emr-20090930.xml

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 emr-20090930.xsd

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 emr-20090930_cal.xml

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 emr-20090930_def.xml

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 emr-20090930_lab.xml

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 emr-20090930_pre.xml

</EX-101.PRE>

