<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20131119_10-K_edgar_data_32604_0000032604-13-000044_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17539947</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>246977</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4561057</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4835279</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5492200</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2128796</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>68</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000032604-13-000044.hdr.sgml : 20131119
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20131119120610
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000032604-13-000044
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20130930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20131119
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20131119

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMERSON ELECTRIC CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000032604
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC & OTHER ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT (NO COMPUTER EQUIP) [3600]
		IRS NUMBER:				430259330
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MO
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00278
		FILM NUMBER:		131229122

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W FLORISSANT AVE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3145532000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		8000 W. FLORISSANT
		STREET 2:		P.O. BOX 4100
		CITY:			ST LOUIS
		STATE:			MO
		ZIP:			63136

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EMERSON ELECTRIC MANUFACTUING CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19730710

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000032604-13-000044.txt : 20131119

10-K
 1
 emr930201310-k.htm
 FORM 10-K

EMR 9.30.2013 10-K  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
    
  FORM 10-K 
    
      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013 
    
  OR 
    
      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  For the transition period from ____________________ to __________________ 
    
  Commission file number 1-278 
    
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (314) 553-2000 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 

Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on 
  which registered 

Common Stock of $0.50 par value per share 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 
  Chicago Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes       No     
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes       No     
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes       No     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files) Yes       No     
    
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
    
  Large accelerated filer                                                                                    Accelerated filer     
    
  Non-accelerated filer       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)      Smaller reporting company     
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). 
  Yes         No        
    
  Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant as of close of business on March 31, 2013: $40.1 billion. 
    
  Common stock outstanding at October 31, 2013: 703,964,498 shares. 
    
  Documents Incorporated by Reference 
    
           1. 
    Portions of Emerson Electric Co. 2013 Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended September 30, 2013 incorporated by reference into Parts I and II hereof. 
       
           2. 
    Portions of Emerson Electric Co. Notice of 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement incorporated by reference into Part III hereof. 
       2 

PART I 
    
  ITEM 1 - BUSINESS 
    
  Emerson was incorporated in Missouri in 1890, and has grown from a regional manufacturer of electric motors and fans into a diversified global technology company. Having expanded its product lines through internal growth and acquisitions, Emerson today designs and supplies products and technology, and delivers engineering services and solutions around the world in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer markets. 
    
  Emerson is organized into the business segments described below, based on the nature of products and services provided. 

Process Management   - Providing measurement, control and diagnostic capabilities for automated industrial processes producing items such as fuels, chemicals, foods, medicines and power. 

Industrial Automation   - Bringing integrated manufacturing solutions to diverse industries worldwide. 

Network Power   - Providing power conditioning and reliability, and environmental control to help keep telecommunication systems, data networks and other critical business applications continuously operating. 

Climate Technologies   - Enhancing household and commercial comfort as well as food safety and energy efficiency through air conditioning and refrigeration technology. 

Commercial   Residential Solutions   - Providing tools for professionals and homeowners, home and commercial storage systems, and appliance solutions. 
       
  Sales, earnings before interest and income taxes, and total assets attributable to each business segment for the three years ended September 30, 2013, are set forth in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference. Percentage sales by segment in 2013 were Process Management, 34 percent; Industrial Automation, 19 percent; Network Power, 24 percent; Climate Technologies, 15 percent; and Commercial   Residential Solutions, 8 percent. Sales by geographic destination in 2013 were the United States and Canada, 44 percent; Asia, 24 percent; Europe, 20 percent; Latin America, 6 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 6 percent. Information with respect to acquisition and divestiture activities and the rationalization of operations is set forth in Notes 3 and 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  PROCESS MANAGEMENT 
    
  The Process Management segment offers customers products and technology as well as engineering and project management services for precision measurement, control, monitoring and asset optimization of oil and gas reservoirs and power generating plants, or plants that process or treat items such as oil, natural gas and petrochemicals; foods and beverages; pulp and paper; pharmaceuticals; and municipal water supplies. This array of products and services helps customers optimize plant capabilities in the areas of safety and reliability, product quality and output efficiency. In 2013, sales by geographic destination for Process Management were the United States and Canada, 37 percent; Asia, 25 percent; Europe, 20 percent; Latin America, 8 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 10 percent. 
    
  Process Management Systems and Software 
    
  Process Management systems and software control plant processes by collecting and analyzing information from measurement devices in the plant, and then using that information to adjust valves, pumps, motors, drives and other control hardware for maximum product quality and process efficiency. Software capabilities also include upstream oil and gas reservoir simulation and modeling for production optimization. Emerson s process control systems can be extended wirelessly to support a mobile workforce with handheld tools/communicators, provide site-wide location tracking of people and assets, and enable video monitoring and communication with wireless field devices, thereby increasing the information available to operators. 
    
    3 

Measurement and Analytical Instrumentation 
    
  Measurement instrumentation measures the physical properties of liquids or gases in a process stream, such as pressure, temperature, level, rate and amount of flow, and communicates this information to a process control system. Measurement technologies provided by Emerson include Coriolis direct mass flow, magnetic flow, vortex flow, ultrasonic flow, differential pressure, ultralow-flow fluid measurement, temperature sensors, radar-based tank gauging and magnetic level gauging. Emerson measurement products are also often used in custody transfer applications, such as the transfer of crude oil from the production field to a refinery, where precise metering of the amount of fluid transferred helps ensure accurate asset management. Complementary products include onshore and subsea multi-phase meters, wetgas meters, downhole gauges and corrosion/erosion measuring instruments. 
    
  Analytical instrumentation analyzes the chemical composition of process fluids and emissions to enhance quality and efficiency, as well as environmental compliance. Emerson s analytical technologies include process gas chromatographs, in-situ oxygen analyzers, infrared gas and process fluid analyzers, combustion analyzers and systems, and analyzers that measure pH, conductivity and water quality. Emerson provides sensors to detect combustible and toxic gases, and flames. These devices support the safety of people and process plant assets. 
    
  These same technologies are also provided with wireless communication capability, allowing customers to monitor processes or equipment that were previously not measurable (remote, moving/rotating) or not economical to measure due to the cost and difficulty of running wires in industrial process plants. 
    
  Final Control 
    
  Control valves respond to commands from a control system to continuously and precisely modulate the flow of process fluids to provide maximum process efficiency and product quality. Emerson provides sliding stem valves, rotary valves, butterfly valves and related valve actuators and controllers. The Company also provides a line of industrial and residential regulators, whose function is to reduce the pressure of fluids from high-pressure supply lines moving into lower pressure systems. 
              
  PlantWeb Digital Plant Architecture 
    
  PlantWeb       digital plant architecture combines the technologies described above with the advantages of  intelligent  plant devices (valves and measurement instruments with advanced diagnostic capabilities), open communication standards (nonproprietary wired and wireless digital protocols allowing the plant devices and the plant control system to  talk  with one another) and integrated modular software. This not only allows customers to better control the process but also to collect and analyze valuable information about plant assets and processes, thereby giving them the ability to detect or predict changes in equipment and process performance and the associated impact on plant operations. PlantWeb       architecture provides the insight to improve plant availability and safety, and also furnishes a platform to continually improve asset management and standards compliance, and to reduce start-up, operating and maintenance costs. 
    
  Industry Services and Solutions 
    
  Process Management s array of process automation and asset optimization services can improve automation project implementation time and costs, increase process availability and productivity, and reduce the total cost of ownership. Global Industry Centers offer engineering and project management services to help customers extract maximum performance and reliability from their process equipment and automation assets. These Centers serve industries such as oil and gas, pulp and paper, chemicals, power, food and beverage, and life sciences. They also assist customers in diagnosing equipment problems and plant inefficiencies. 
    
  Distribution 
    
  The principal worldwide distribution channel for the Process Management segment is direct sales forces, although a network of independent sales representatives, and to a lesser extent, independent distributors purchasing these products for resale are also utilized. Approximately half of sales in the United States are made through a direct sales force with the remainder primarily through independent sales representatives. In Europe and Asia, sales are primarily made through a direct sales force with the remainder split evenly between independent sales representatives and distributors. 
    
    4 

Brands 
    
  Service/trademarks and trade names within the Process Management segment include Emerson Process Management, AMS Suite, Baumann, Bettis, Bristol, CSI, Damcos, Daniel, DeltaV, EIM, El-O-Matic, Fisher, Go Switch, Guardian, Micro Motion, Net Safety, Ovation, PlantWeb, ROC, Rosemount, Roxar, Smart Process, SureService, Tescom, TopWorx and Valvetop. 
    
  INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION 
    
  The Industrial Automation segment provides integrated manufacturing solutions to customers at the source of manufacturing their own products. Products include motors, drives, power generating alternators, power transmission solutions, fluid controls and materials joining equipment. Through these offerings, the Company brings technology and enhanced quality to the customer s final product. In 2013, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 41 percent; Asia, 17 percent; Europe, 35 percent; Latin America, 3 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 4 percent. 
    
  Motors and Drives 
    
  Industrial Automation provides a broad line of drives and electronic motors that are used in a wide variety of manufacturing operations and products including production assembly lines, elevators, escalators, and are the prime movers in rotating equipment such as fans, pumps and compressors. Products in this category include alternating current (AC) and direct current (DC) variable speed electrical drives and motors, servo drives and motors, drive control systems, integral horsepower motors (1 HP and above), fractional horsepower motors (less than 1 HP), hermetic motors, and gear drives. 
    
  Power Generation 
    
  Power generation includes low, medium and high voltage alternators for use in diesel- and gas-powered generator sets, as well as high frequency alternators, AC motor/generator sets, traction generators, wind power generators, wind turbine pitch control systems and solar photovoltaic converters. 
    
  Power Transmission 
    
  Power transmission products include belt and chain drives, helical and worm gearing, mounted and unmounted bearings, couplings, modular plastic belts and conveying chains and components. They are used to transmit power mechanically, provide anti-friction support or to enable automated material handling in a wide variety of industrial and commercial applications. Our product designs and application experience enable us to provide both standard and customized automation and power transmission solutions to our customers. 
    
  Fluid Power and Fluid Control 
    
  Products in this category control and power the flow of fluids (liquids and gases) in manufacturing operations such as automobile assembly, food processing, textile manufacturing and petrochemical processing. They include solenoid and pneumatic valves, valve position indicators, pneumatic cylinders, air preparation equipment, and pressure, vacuum and temperature switches. 
    
  Materials Joining and Precision Cleaning 
    
  The Company supplies both plastics joining technologies and equipment, and metal welding and joining processes to a diversified manufacturing customer base, including automotive, medical devices and toys. The Company also provides precision cleaning and liquid processing solutions to industrial and commercial manufacturers. Products include ultrasonic joining and cleaning equipment; linear and orbital vibration welding equipment; systems for hot plate welding, spin and laser welding equipment; and aqueous, semi-aqueous and vapor cleaning systems. 
    
    5 

Electrical Distribution 
    
  Emerson s majority-owned EGS Electrical Group joint venture with SPX Corporation manufactures a broad line of components for current- and noncurrent-carrying electrical distribution devices. These products include conduit and cable fittings, plugs and receptacles, industrial lighting, enclosures and controls. Products in this category are used in hazardous, industrial, commercial and construction environments, such as oil and gas drilling and production sites, pulp and paper mills and petrochemical plants. 
    
  Distribution 
    
  On a worldwide basis, the primary distribution channel for the Industrial Automation segment is through direct sales forces, including to original equipment manufacturers. Independent distributors constitute the next significant sales channel, mostly to reach end users. To a lesser extent, independent sales representatives are utilized, particularly for electrical distribution products in the United States. 
    
  Brands 
    
  Service/trademarks and trade names within the Industrial Automation segment include Emerson Industrial Automation, Appleton, ASCO, ASCO Joucomatic, ASCO Numatics, Branson Ultrasonics, Browning, Control Techniques, Jaure, Kato Engineering, Kop-Flex, Leroy Somer, McGill, Morse, Nutsteel, O-Z/Gedney, Power Transmission Solutions, Rollway, Sealmaster, SSB Wind Systems, System Plast and Trident. 
    
  NETWORK POWER 
    
  The Network Power segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains products providing  grid to chip  electric power conditioning, power reliability and environmental control for telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications, and also provides comprehensive data center infrastructure management solutions. Products in this segment include inbound power systems, uninterruptible power systems, precision cooling, integrated data center control devices, software, monitoring and 24-hour service, embedded power supplies and embedded computing systems. In 2013, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 39 percent; Asia, 35 percent; Europe, 17 percent; Latin America, 6 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 3 percent. 
    
  Inbound Power Systems 
    
  Inbound power technology provides reliable power systems which automatically transfer critical application loads from a utility to emergency backup generators in the event of a blackout or brownout. Products include automatic transfer switches, paralleling and synchronizing gear and related distribution equipment and control systems. 
    
  Uninterruptible Power Systems 
    
  Uninterruptible AC and DC power systems provide reliable, conditioned power to telecommunication networks, data centers and other critical equipment in the event of a blackout or line surges and spikes. Power Systems  products range from stand-alone units to complete systems incorporating rectifiers, distribution units, surge protection, batteries and system supervision. 
    
  Precision Cooling 
    
  Precision cooling products provide temperature and humidity control for computers, telecommunications and other sensitive equipment.  
    
  Data Center Infrastructure Management 
    
  The Company provides comprehensive data center management solutions through server access technologies that enable access, monitoring and control of customers' information technology infrastructure, and provide linkage with data center operations. 

6 

Service and Site Operations 
    
  Network Power staffs Energy Operation Centers in more than 30 countries and deploys field service personnel worldwide to assist customers in managing their network support systems. Services include on-site operations management, energy consumption monitoring, preventive maintenance, electrical testing, remote monitoring and management, and 24-hour service capability. 
    
  Embedded Computing and Power 
    
  Embedded computing designs and develops embedded computer systems for original equipment manufacturers and systems integrators serving telecommunications, defense, aerospace, medical and industrial automation end markets. Products range from communication platforms, blades and modules to enabling software and professional services. Embedded power supplies are installed by original equipment manufacturers to convert or condition power for microprocessors and peripherals in a wide range of telecommunication, health care, computer and industrial applications using standard or custom AC/DC or DC/DC designs. They are also used in consumer products for chargers and power adaptors. The Company has entered into an agreement to sell a controlling interest in this business. See Notes 3 and 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company's 2013 Annual Report, which notes are hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  Connectivity Solutions 
    
  Connectivity products serve the needs of the wireless communications, telephone and data network, CATV, defense, security systems and health care industries and other industrial customers with a broad range of radio frequency, microwave and fiber optic interconnect components and assemblies. 
    
  Distribution 
    
  Network Power segment sales are primarily through worldwide direct sales forces, particularly in Europe and Asia. The remainder of sales are handled by independent sales representatives, particularly in the United States, and independent distributors. 
    
  Brands 
    
  Service/trademarks and trade names within the Network Power segment include Emerson Network Power, Aperture, ASCO Power Technologies, Avocent, Chloride, Kn rr, Liebert, Liebert Services, NetXtend, Netsure, Semflex, Stratos, Trompeter, Artesyn and Astec. 
    
  CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES 
    
  The Climate Technologies segment provides products and services for all areas of the climate control industry, including residential heating and cooling, commercial air conditioning, commercial and industrial refrigeration, and marine controls. The Company's products and technology enable homeowners and businesses to better manage their heating, air conditioning and refrigeration systems for reliable operation, improved control and lower energy costs. This segment also provides services that digitally control and remotely monitor a variety of equipment in grocery stores and other food distribution outlets to enhance reliability, ensure freshness and maintain food safety. In 2013, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 55 percent; Asia, 23 percent; Europe, 12 percent; Latin America, 6 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 4 percent. 
    
    7 

Residential and Commercial Heating and Air Conditioning 
    
  The Company provides a full range of heating and air conditioning products that help reduce operational and energy costs and create comfortable environments in all types of buildings. These products include reciprocating and scroll air conditioning compressors, including ultra-efficient residential scroll compressors with two stages of cooling capacity as well as variable speed scroll compressors; standard and programmable thermostats; monitoring equipment and electronic controls for gas and electric heating systems; gas valves for furnaces and water heaters; ignition systems for furnaces; sensors and thermistors for home appliances; and temperature sensors and controls. 
    
  Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration 
    
  Our technology is incorporated into equipment that refrigerates food and beverages in supermarkets, convenience stores, food service operations, refrigerated trucks and refrigerated marine transport containers. Climate Technologies refrigeration products are also used in a wide variety of industrial applications, including medical applications, food processing and cold storage. Products include reciprocating, scroll and screw compressors; precision flow controls; system diagnostics and controls that provide precise temperature management; and environmental control systems. 
    
  Services and Solutions 
    
  Services and solutions enable global customers to optimize the performance of facilities including large-scale retailers, supermarkets, convenience stores and food services facilities. By providing expertise in air conditioning, refrigeration and lighting control, Climate Technologies performs as a complete facility manager for its customers. The Company s expertise allows customers to reduce energy and maintenance costs, thereby improving overall facility uptime. In addition to industry-leading controls, services include facility design and product management, site commissioning, facility monitoring and energy modeling. 
    
  Distribution 
    
  Climate Technologies segment sales, primarily to original equipment manufacturers and end users, are made predominately through worldwide direct sales forces. Remaining sales are primarily through independent distributor networks throughout the world. 
    
  Brands 
    
  Service/trademarks and trade names within the Climate Technologies segment include Emerson Climate Technologies, Clive Samuels   Associates, Computer Process Controls, Copeland, Design Services Network, Dixell, Emerson Climate Technologies Distribution Services, Emerson Climate Technologies Educational Services, Emerson Retail Services, Fusite, Therm-O-Disc, Vilter and White-Rodgers. 
    
  COMMERCIAL   RESIDENTIAL SOLUTIONS 
    
  Emerson s Commercial   Residential Solutions segment includes a broad range of tools, storage products and appliance solutions. In 2013, sales by geographic destination for this segment were the United States and Canada, 83 percent; Asia, 4 percent; Europe, 8 percent; Latin America, 3 percent; and Middle East/Africa, 2 percent. 
    
  Professional and Do-It-Yourself Tools 
    
  Our pipe-working tools are used by plumbing and mechanical professionals to install and repair piping systems. These tools include pipe wrenches, pipe cutters, pipe threading and roll grooving equipment, a time-saving system that joins tubing through mechanical crimping, drain cleaners, tubing tools, and diagnostic systems, including closed-circuit television pipe inspection and locating equipment. Other professional tools include water jetters, wet-dry vacuums, commercial vacuums and bolt cutters. Do-it-yourself tools, available at home improvement retail outlets, include drain cleaning equipment, pipe and tube working tools, and wet-dry vacuums. 
    
    8 

Storage Solutions 
    
  Emerson provides a wide variety of freestanding, fixed and mobile storage products for residential, commercial, health care and food service applications. Products for the home include wall-mounted and freestanding shelving systems, cabinet and closet organizers, home office storage, and drawer systems and containers, all available in wire, stainless steel and laminate. Commercial storage solutions help customers utilize space in the most efficient manner, including storage and display shelving, stock-picking and kitting carts, cabinets, totes, bins, workstations, and merchandising and inventory storage racks. Products provided to the health care industry assist in medical response and treatment, including emergency and operating room carts, medication carts, polymer and wire shelving systems, and sterile worktables. Food service equipment helps meet the storage needs of the food service and hospitality industries, such as restaurants and hotels. This equipment includes polymer and wire storage systems, busing carts, pan and tray racks, transport carts and workstations. 
    
  Appliances and Components 
    
  Emerson provides a number of appliance solutions, including residential and commercial food waste disposers, ceiling fans, instant hot water dispensers and compact electric water heaters. 
    
  Distribution 
    
  The principal worldwide distribution channels for the Commercial   Residential Solutions segment are distributors and direct sales forces. Professional tools are sold almost exclusively worldwide through distributors. Independent sales representatives are utilized to a lesser extent, particularly for storage solutions. Appliance solutions are sold through direct sales force networks and distributors. 
    
  Brands 
    
  Service/trademarks and trade names within the Commercial   Residential Solutions segment include Emerson, Emerson Appliance Solutions, Emerson Professional Tools, Emerson Storage Solutions, ClosetMaid, Flo Healthcare, InSinkErator, Lionville, MedDispense, METRO, ProTeam and RIDGID. 
    
  PRODUCTION 
    
  Emerson utilizes various production operations and methods. The principal production operations are electronics assembly, metal stamping, forming, casting, machining, welding, plating, heat treating, painting and assembly. In addition, Emerson uses specialized production operations, including automatic and semiautomatic testing, automated material handling and storage, ferrous and nonferrous machining, and special furnaces for heat treating and foundry applications. Management believes the equipment, machinery and tooling used in these processes are of modern design and well maintained. 
    
  RAW MATERIALS 
    
  Emerson's major requirements for basic raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum and brass; and to a lesser extent, plastics and other petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson seeks to secure multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. Despite market price volatility for certain requirements and materials pricing pressures at some of our businesses, the raw materials and various purchased components needed for the Company s products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. 
    
    9 

PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES 
    
  The Company maintains an intellectual property portfolio it has developed or acquired over a number of years, including patents, trademarks and licenses. The Company also continues to develop or acquire intellectual property on an ongoing basis. New patent applications are continuously filed to protect the Company s ongoing research and development activities. The Company s trademark registrations may be renewed and their duration is dependent on national laws and trademark use. While this proprietary intellectual property portfolio is important to the Company in the aggregate, management does not regard any of its segments as being dependent on any single patent, trademark registration or license. 
    
  BACKLOG 
    
  The Company s estimated consolidated order backlog was $6,187 million and $6,254 million at September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The vast majority of the consolidated backlog as of September 30, 2013 is expected to be shipped within one year. Estimated backlog by business segment at September 30, 2013 and 2012 follows (dollars in millions): 

COMPETITION 
    
  Emerson's businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive. The Company competes based on product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. A significant element of the Company's competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Although no single company competes directly with Emerson in all of the Company's product lines, various companies compete in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than Emerson and the Company also competes with many smaller companies. Management believes Emerson has a market leadership position in many of its product lines. 
    
  RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
    
  Costs associated with Company-sponsored research and development activities were   $576 million  ,   $547 million   and   $555 million   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
    
  ENVIRONMENT 
    
  The Company's manufacturing locations generate waste, the treatment, storage, transportation and disposal of which are subject to federal, state, foreign and/or local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. Compliance with laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to protection of the environment has not had a material effect upon Emerson's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. The Company does not anticipate having material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities during the next fiscal year. 
    
    10 

EMPLOYEES 
    
  Emerson and its subsidiaries had an average of approximately   131,600   employees during 2013. Management believes that the Company's employee relations are favorable. Some of the Company's employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. None of these agreements is considered significant. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information. 
    
  DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS 
    
  International sales were   $14,669 million   in 2013,   $14,376 million   in 2012 and   $14,322 million   in 2011, including U.S. exports of   $1,604 million  ,   $1,579 million   and   $1,520 million   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Although there are additional risks attendant to non-U.S. operations, such as currency fluctuations, restrictions on the movement of funds and possible nationalization of facilities, the Company's financial position has not been materially affected thereby to date. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for further information with respect to non-U.S. operations. 
    
  INTERNET ACCESS 
    
  Emerson's reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to those reports are available without charge through the Company s website on the Internet as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They may be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, SEC Filings. Information on Emerson s website does not constitute part of this Form 10-K. 
    
  The information set forth under  Item 1A - Risk Factors  is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  ITEM 1A - RISK FACTORS 
    
  Investing in our securities involves risks. We may amend or supplement the risk factors described below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. 
    
  We Operate in Businesses That Are Subject to Competitive Pressures That Could Affect Prices or Demand for Our Products 
    
  Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high quality products at the best relevant global cost. Various companies compete with us in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company and we also compete with many smaller companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our sales or profit margins, and/or resulting in a loss of market share. 
    
  Our Operating Results Depend in Part on Continued Successful Research, Development and Marketing of New and/or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Successfully Introduce New Products and Services 
    
  The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of being first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market. 
    
    11 

If We Are Unable to Defend or Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights the Company's Competitive Position Could Be Adversely Affected 
    
  The Company's intellectual property rights are important to its business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other confidential information. This intellectual property may be subject to challenge, infringement, invalidation or circumvention by third parties. Despite extensive security measures, our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation through unauthorized access of our information technology systems, employee theft, or other acts of industrial espionage. Should the Company be unable to adequately defend or protect its intellectual property, it may suffer competitive harm. 
    
  We Engage in Acquisitions, and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating These Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the Acquisitions 
    
  We are a company that, from time to time, seeks to grow through strategic acquisitions. In 2013 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference). The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 
    
  Access to Funding Through the Capital Markets Is Essential to the Execution of Our Business Plan and if We Are Unable to Maintain Such Access We Could Experience a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Financial Results 
    
  Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments, or affect the Company s ability to access those markets. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If our customers, suppliers and financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted. 
    
  We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our Products 
    
  Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and other petroleum-based chemicals. Emerson seeks multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters or other events. Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to reduce price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. 
    
  Our Operations Depend on Production Facilities Throughout the World, a Majority of Which Are Located Outside the United States and Subject to Increased Risks of Disrupted Production Causing Delays in Shipments and Loss of Customers and Revenue 
    
  We manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are located outside the United States, and also source certain materials internationally. Emerging market sales now represent over one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we place more materials sourcing and production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our best-cost position. Our and our suppliers  international production facilities and operations could be disrupted by a natural disaster, labor strife, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equipped to handle such occurrences. 
    
    12 

Our manufacturing facilities abroad also may be more susceptible to changes in laws and policies in host countries and economic and political upheaval than our domestic facilities. Any such disruption could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. 
    
  Our Substantial Sales Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk as Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Foreign Currency Fluctuations and Changes in Local Government Regulations and Policies 
    
  We sell, manufacture, engineer and purchase products in overseas markets. A significant portion of our sales is outside the United States, and we expect sales from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. International sales and operations are subject to changes in local government regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, and repatriation of earnings, which could adversely affect our results. Changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to reduce this exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. 
    
  Recessions, Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in the End Markets We Serve May Negatively Impact Segment Revenues and Operating Results 
    
  Segment revenues, operating results and cash flows have varied in the past and may be exposed to significant volatility from quarter to quarter in the future due to changes in general economic conditions, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets we serve. These changes could adversely impact overall sales, operating results and cash flows, which in turn could trigger impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets due to the fair value of such assets falling below the Company s carrying value. Moreover, during economic downturns we may undertake more extensive rationalization actions and therefore incur higher rationalization expense during such periods. If our rationalization actions are not sufficiently effective or if we must incur rationalization costs beyond what we anticipate, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated operating results. 
    
  We Are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results 
    
  We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving product liability and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, significant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. 
    
  ITEM 1B - UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
    
  None. 
    
  ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES 
    
  At September 30, 2013, Emerson had approximately 230 manufacturing locations worldwide, of which approximately 155 were located outside the United States, primarily in Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent in Canada and Latin America. Manufacturing locations by business segment are: Process Management, 60; Industrial Automation, 70; Network Power, 45; Climate Technologies, 35; and Commercial   Residential Solutions, 20. The majority of the locations are owned, with the remainder occupied under lease. The Company considers its facilities suitable and adequate for the purposes for which they are used. 
    
  ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
    
  Emerson and its subsidiaries are party to various legal proceedings, some of which claim substantial amounts of damages. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these matters, but historically the Company has been successful in both prosecuting and defending claims and lawsuits. 
    
    13 

The Company believes a material adverse impact of any pending litigation is unlikely. Nevertheless, given the uncertainties of litigation, a remote possibility exists that litigation could have a material adverse impact on the Company.   
    
  The information regarding legal proceedings set forth in Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  ITEM 4 - MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  
    
  Not applicable. 
    
  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
    
  The following sets forth certain information as of November 19, 2013 with respect to Emerson's executive officers. The Fiscal Year column indicates the first year the executive served as an officer of the Company. These officers have been elected or appointed to terms which expire February 4, 2014: 
                        Name 
    Position 
    Age 
    Fiscal Year 

D. N. Farr 
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer* 
    58 
    1985 

F. J. Dellaquila 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    56 
    1991 

E. L. Monser 
    President and Chief Operating Officer 
    63 
    2002 

C. A. Peters 
    Senior Executive Vice President 
    58 
    1990 

R. J. Schlueter 
    Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 
    59 
    1992 

F. L. Steeves 
    Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel 
    59 
    2007 

*Also chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 
    
  There are no family relationships among any of the executive officers and directors. 
    
  David N. Farr has been Chief Executive Officer since October 2000, was appointed Chairman of the Board in September 2004, and also served as President from November 2005 to October 2010. Frank J. Dellaquila was appointed Executive Vice President in November 2012 and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in February 2010. Prior to his current position, Mr. Dellaquila was Senior Vice President - Finance and Controller from August 2009 to February 2010 and Senior Vice President - Acquisitions and Development from 2004 to 2009. Edward L. Monser was appointed President in October 2010 and has been Chief Operating Officer since November 2001. Charles A. Peters has been Senior Executive Vice President since October 2000. Richard J. Schlueter was appointed Controller in October 2011. He has been Vice President Accounting since 1999 and was also appointed Chief Accounting Officer in February 2003. Frank L. Steeves was appointed Executive Vice President in October 2011. He was appointed Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel in March 2007, prior to which he was Vice Chairman of the Milwaukee-based law firm of von Briesen   Roper, S.C., which has provided legal services to the Company since 2001. Mr. Steeves joined von Briesen and Roper as a partner in 2001, and became Vice Chairman of that firm in 2004. Craig W. Ashmore, former Executive Vice President - Planning and Development, resigned from the Company effective November 11, 2013.  

14 

PART II 
    
  ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
    
  Information regarding the market for the Company's common stock, quarterly market price ranges and dividend payments is set forth in Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference. There were approximately 21,898 stockholders of record at September 30, 2013. 

The Company s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 80 million shares under a May 2008 program, and approved a new program on May 7, 2013 for the repurchase of up to 70 million additional shares. No shares remain available under the 2008 program. 
    
  ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
    
  Years ended September 30 
  (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 

(a) 2013 includes $566 million after-tax ($0.78 per share) goodwill impairment and income tax charges;  
       2012 includes a $528 million after-tax ($0.72 per share) goodwill impairment charge. 
    
  See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report, which note is hereby incorporated by reference, for information regarding the Company's acquisition and divestiture activities for the last three years. In 2010, the Company acquired Chloride Group PLC and Avocent Corporation. At acquisition, the combined annual sales for these businesses were approximately $960 million, and actual sales of $373 million were included in 2010 from their dates of acquisition. The divested U.S. Motors business with annual sales of approximately $820 million was classified as discontinued operations in 2009 and 2010.  
    15 

ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. 
    
  The information from the 2013 Annual Report set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto under  Results of Operations,   Business Segments,   Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity,   Critical Accounting Policies,  and "Safe Harbor Statement" is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  Fiscal 2014 Outlook 
    
  Global economic indicators remain mixed and uncertain, but momentum appears to be on a slightly favorable trend. Process Management orders are expected to remain solid through 2014. Improvement in Europe and Asia is expected to support modest near-term sales growth in Industrial Automation, while also supporting positive near-term order trends in the Network Power Systems business. For Climate Technologies, residential and refrigeration strength and an expected commercial end market recovery support a moderate growth outlook. Solid residential end market momentum supports an outlook for modest near-term growth in Commercial   Residential Solutions. Based on a forecast of global gross fixed investment growth of 2.5 to 4 percent, Emerson underlying sales are expected to grow 3 to 5 percent in 2014, excluding (4) percent from acquisitions and the previously announced divestiture of the embedded computing and power business. Reported sales are expected to change (1) to 1 percent. After managing costs aggressively through sluggish economic conditions the past two years, incremental growth investments will accelerate next year, resulting in only slight margin expansion. Earnings per share are expected to increase 4 to 7 percent excluding an approximate 30 percent impact from impairment and repatriation charges, or increase 33 to 38 percent on a reported basis.The embedded computing and power transaction impact to 2014 earnings per share is expected to be approximately neutral, as supplemental share repurchase offsets the earnings decline. 
    
  Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
    
  To supplement Emerson s financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), management periodically uses certain  non-GAAP financial measures,  as such term is defined in Regulation G under the rules of the SEC, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company s operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For example, non-GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain items such as acquisitions, divestitures, gains, losses and impairments, or items outside of management s control, such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Management believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into Emerson s financial position and operating performance. Any non-GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore may not be comparable among companies. 
    
  Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates during the periods presented, are provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons of sales growth by excluding those items that impact overall comparability (U.S. GAAP measure:   net sales  ). 
    
  Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. EBIT (defined as earnings before deductions for interest expense, net and income taxes) and total segment EBIT, and EBIT margin (defined as EBIT divided by net sales) and total segment EBIT margin, are commonly used financial measures that exclude the impact of financing on the capital structure and income taxes. All these measures are utilized by management to evaluate performance (U.S. GAAP measures:   pretax earnings or pretax profit margin  ). 
    
  Earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders  equity and return on total capital excluding certain gains and losses, impairments or other items provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period-to-period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders' equity  
    16 

and return on total capital excluding these items is more representative of the Company s operational performance and may be more useful for investors (U.S. GAAP measures:   earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders  equity, return on total capital  ). 
    
  Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) is an indicator of the Company s cash generating capabilities after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The determination of operating cash flow adds back non-cash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow is  
  useful to both management and investors as a measure of the Company s ability to generate cash (U.S. GAAP measure:   operating cash flow  ).   
    
  ITEM 7A - QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    
    
  The information from the 2013 Annual Report set forth in Exhibit 13 hereto under "Financial Instruments" is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
    
  The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of the Company and subsidiaries and the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2013 Annual Report, are hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  ITEM 9 - CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
    
  None. 
    
  ITEM 9A - CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
    
  Emerson maintains a system of disclosure controls and procedures which is designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Company s certifying officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on an evaluation performed, the Company's certifying officers have concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 30, 2013 to provide reasonable assurance of achieving these objectives. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures will detect or uncover all failures of persons within the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries to report material information otherwise required to be set forth in the Company's reports. There was no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 30, 2013, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Management s report on internal control over financial reporting, and the related report of the Company s auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, appearing in the 2013 Annual Report are hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  ITEM 9B - OTHER INFORMATION 
    
  None. 
    
  PART III 
    
  ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
    
  Information regarding nominees and directors appearing under "Nominees and Continuing Directors" in the Emerson Electric Co. Notice of Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement for the February 2014 annual stockholders' meeting (the "2014 Proxy Statement") is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding executive officers is set forth in Part I of this report. Information appearing under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in the 2014 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. Information  
    17 

regarding the Audit Committee and Audit Committee Financial Expert appearing under "Board of Directors and Committees" in the 2014 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  Emerson has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to the Company's chief executive officer, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer; has posted such Code of Ethics on its Internet website; and intends to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K by posting such information on its Internet website. Emerson has adopted Charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and a Code of Business Ethics for directors, officers and employees, which are available on its Internet website and in print to any shareholder who requests them. Emerson has also adopted Corporate Governance Principles and Practices, which are available on its Internet website and in print to any shareholder who requests them. The Corporate Governance section of the Company's Internet website may be accessed as follows: www.Emerson.com, Investor Relations, Corporate Governance. 
    
  ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
    
  Information appearing under  Board of Directors and Committees Compensation Committee,   Board of Directors and Committees Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee,   Director Compensation,   Executive Compensation  (including, but not limited to, the information set forth under  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report  and  Summary Compensation Table ) and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  in the 2014 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  The information contained in  Compensation Committee Report  shall not be deemed to be filed with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), except to the extent that Emerson specifically incorporates such information into future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. 
    
  ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
    
  The information regarding beneficial ownership of shares by nominees and continuing directors, named executive officers, 5% beneficial owners, and by all directors and executive officers as a group appearing under "Stock Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers and 5% Beneficial Owners" in the 2014 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  The following table sets forth aggregate information regarding the Company s equity compensation plans as of September 30, 2013:                           
    Number of Securities 
  to be Issued upon 
  Exercise of 
  Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights 
      
    Weighted-Average 
  Exercise Price of 
  Outstanding 
  Options, Warrants  
  and Rights 
      
    Number of Securities 
  Remaining Available for 
  Future Issuance under 
  Equity Compensation 
  Plans (Excluding 
  Securities Reflected in Column (a)) 
      Plan Category 
    (a) 
      
    (b) 
      
    (c) 
      Equity compensation plans  
     approved by security holders (1) 
    21,653,946 
      
    $47.03 
      
    24,431,516 
      Equity compensation plans not  
     approved by security holders 

Total 
    21,653,946 
      
    $47.03 
      
    24,431,516 

(1) 
    Includes the Stock Option and Incentive Shares Plans previously approved by the Company's security holders. Included in column (a) are 5,118,500 shares reserved for performance shares awards (awarded in 2013), which will be distributed primarily in shares of common stock and partially in cash contingent upon the Company achieving the financial performance objectives through 2016 and continued service by the employee. Also included in column (a) are 4,837,739 shares reserved for performance shares awards (awarded primarily in 2010), 2,902,647 of which were issued primarily in shares of common stock and paid partially in cash in early fiscal 2014 as a result of achieving the financial objective at a 93 percent performance level by the end of fiscal 2013, and 1,935,092 shares which will be distributed in shares of common stock contingent upon one additional  
       18 

year of service by employees, and the remainder of which have been earned under prior performance shares programs but for which participants elected to defer payment. As provided by the Company s Incentive Shares Plans, performance shares awards represent a commitment to issue such shares without cash payment by the employee, contingent upon achievement of the objective and continued service by the employee. The price in column (b) represents the weighted-average exercise price for outstanding options. Included in column (c) are  5,038,410 shares remaining available for award under the previously approved 2006 Incentive Shares Plan and  269,750 shares remaining available under the previously approved Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors. 
    
  Information regarding stock option plans and incentive shares plans set forth in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of the 2013 Annual Report is hereby incorporated by reference.  
    
  ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
    
  Information appearing under  Director Independence  in the 2014 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  ITEM 14 - PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
    
  Information appearing under "Fees Paid to KPMG LLP" in the 2014 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference. 
    
  PART IV 
    
  ITEM 15 - EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
    
  A) Documents filed as a part of this report: 
    
           1.  
    The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of the Company and subsidiaries and the report thereon of KPMG LLP in the 2013 Annual Report.  
       
           2.  
    Financial Statement Schedules   All schedules are omitted because they are not required, not applicable or the required information is provided in the financial statements or notes thereto contained in the 2013 Annual Report.  
       
           3.  
    Exhibits (Listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in Regulation S-K). 
       
           3(a)  
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Emerson Electric Co., incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 3(a); Termination of Designated Shares of Stock and Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series B Junior Participating Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1998 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 3(a). 

4(a)  
    Indenture dated as of April 17, 1991, between Emerson Electric Co. and The Boatmen's National Bank of St. Louis, Trustee, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 33-62545, Exhibit 4.1. 

No other long-term debt instruments are filed since the total amount of securities authorized under any such instrument does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of Emerson Electric Co. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Emerson Electric Co. agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon request. 
    
    19 

10(b)*  
    Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Continuing Compensation Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(c). 
       
           10(c)*  
    Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Forms of Payment Election Form, Initial Notice of Election and Notice of Election Change, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(d). 
       
           10(d)* 
    First Amendment to the Emerson Electric Co. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1999 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and Form of Change of Control Election, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K dated October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.9 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as of December 31, 2004). 
       
           10(e)*  
    Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Pension Restoration Plan and Forms of Participation Award Letter, Acceptance of Award and Benefit Election Forms (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1, 2005), incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(f). 
       
           10(f)* 
    Fifth Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Savings Investment Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(j), and Form of Participation Agreement and Form of Annual Election, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.8 (applicable only with respect to benefits vested as of December 31, 2004).  
       
           10(g)*  
    Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Savings Investment Restoration Plan and Forms of Participation Agreement, Annual Election Form and Payment Election Form (applicable only with respect to benefits after January 1, 2005), incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(h), and First Amendment to Emerson Electric Co. Savings Investment Restoration Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 
       
           10(h)*  
    Amended and Restated Emerson Electric Co. Annual Incentive Plan and Form of Acceptance of Award, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2007 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(i). 

10(j)*  
    1998 Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 1998 Proxy Statement dated December 12, 1997, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, and Amendment No. 1 thereto, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2000 Form 10-K, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10(l), Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.1, and Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.2. 
       20 

10(k)*  
    2001 Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. 2002 Proxy Statement dated December 12, 2001, File No. 1-278, Appendix A, Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.3 (used on or prior to September 30, 2011), Forms of Notice of Grant of Stock Options, Option Agreement and Incentive Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1 (used after September 30, 2011), Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed October 1, 2004, Exhibit 10.4 (used on or prior to September 30, 2011), Forms of Notice of Grant of Stock Options, Option Agreement and Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2011, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.2 (used after September 30, 2011). 
       
           10(l)*  
    Emerson Electric Co. Description of Split Dollar Life Insurance Program Transition, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed September 2, 2005, Exhibit 10.1. 
       
           10(m)*  
    Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1, Form of Restricted Stock Award Letter under the Emerson Electric Co. Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed February 1, 2005, Exhibit 10.2, and Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Letter under the Emerson Electric Co. Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Management Directors, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, File No. 1-278, Exhibit 10.1. 

10(o)* 
    Description of Named Executive Officer Compensation, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2004, Exhibit 10.1. 

21 

10(s)* 
    Letter Agreement effective as of February 5, 2013 by and between Emerson Electric Co. and Walter J. Galvin, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed February 8, 2013, Exhibit 10.1. 
       
           10(t)* 
    Consulting Agreement made and entered into as of February 5, 2013 by and between Emerson Electric Co. and Walter J. Galvin, incorporated by reference to Emerson Electric Co. Form 8-K filed February 8, 2013, Exhibit 10.2. 
       
           12     
    Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 
       
           13 
    Portions of Emerson Electric Co. Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended September 30, 2013, incorporated by reference herein 
       
           21 
    Subsidiaries of Emerson Electric Co. 
       
           23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

* Management contract or compensatory plan. 
    22 

SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. 

By  
    /s/ F. J. Dellaquila 

F. J. Dellaquila 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

November 19, 2013 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on   November 19, 2013  , by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
    
                   Signature 
      
    Title 

/s/ D. N. Farr 
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
      D. N. Farr 

/s/ F. J. Dellaquila 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      F. J. Dellaquila 

/s/ R. J. Schlueter 
      
    Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 
      R. J. Schlueter 

* 
      
    Director 
      C. A. H. Boersig 

* 
      
    Director 
      J. B. Bolten 

* 
      
    Director 
      A. A. Busch III 

* 
      
    Director 
      A. F. Golden 

* 
      
    Director 
      H. Green 

23 

* 
      
    Director 
      W. R. Johnson 

* 
      
    Director 
      M. S. Levatich 

* 
      
    Director 
      C. A. Peters 

* 
      
    Director 
      J. W. Prueher 

* 
      
    Director 
      R. L. Stephenson 

* 
      
    Director 
      J. S. Turley 

* By  
      /s/    
    F. J. Dellaquila 

F. J. Dellaquila 

Attorney-in-Fact 

24 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
    
  Exhibits are listed by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 in Regulation S-K. 

See Item 15(A) 3. for a list of exhibits incorporated by reference. 
    
    25 

<EX-12>
 2
 exhibit12fy13.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12 FY13 

Exhibit 12 
    
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  COMPUTATION OF THE RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
  (Dollars in Millions) 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 3
 exhibit13fy13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

Exhibit 13 FY13 

Exhibit 13 
  FINANCIAL REVIEW 
  Report of Management 
  The Company's management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the financial statements. Management believes that the financial statements for the three years ended September 30, 2013 have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and estimates where necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and transactions that have not been completed. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to management and reported within the required time periods. 
  In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial statements, management relies on a system of internal accounting control. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The design of this system recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur and that estimates and judgments are required to assess the relative cost and expected benefits of the controls. Management believes that the Company's internal accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could be material to the financial statements are prevented or would be detected within a timely period. 
  The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is responsible for overseeing the Company's financial reporting process. The Audit Committee meets with management and the Company's internal auditors periodically to review the work of each and to monitor the discharge by each of its responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets periodically with the independent auditors, who have free access to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, to discuss the quality and acceptability of the Company's financial reporting and internal controls, as well as nonaudit-related services. 
  The independent auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on procedures that they believe to be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements contain no material errors and that the Company's internal controls are effective. 
  Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. With the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and the criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992)  , issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2013. 
  The Company's auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 
                     /s/ David N. Farr 
      
    /s/ Frank J. Dellaquila 
      
      David N. Farr 
      
    Frank J. Dellaquila 
      
      Chairman of the Board 
      
    Executive Vice President 
      
      and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    and Chief Financial Officer 

1 

Results of Operations 
  Years ended September 30 
  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 

Overview 
  Emerson's sales increased to   $24.7 billion   in 2013, up 1 percent compared with prior year, reflecting mixed end markets and cautious levels of business investment amid a challenging global economic environment. Underlying sales for 2013 increased 2 percent, led by continued strong growth in Process Management and moderate growth in the Climate Technologies worldwide compressors business. Foreign currency translation and a prior year divestiture had a combined 1 percent unfavorable impact. Emerging markets growth exceeded that of mature economies. Asia grew 2 percent, the U.S. was flat and Europe declined 3 percent. Latin America and Middle East/Africa grew 11 percent and 13 percent, respectively. 
    
  Net earnings common stockholders were $2.0 billion in 2013, up 2 percent versus prior year. Diluted earnings per share were $2.76, up 3 percent compared with $2.67 per share in 2012. Excluding impairment and income tax charges, 2013 net earnings were $2.6 billion, up 3 percent, while earnings per share were $3.54, up 4 percent compared with $3.39 in 2012. These charges primarily related to the embedded computing and power business, and totaled $566 million ($0.78 per share) in 2013 and $528 million ($0.72 per share) in 2012. See Goodwill Impairment in the discussion that follows and Notes 3 and 6 for additional information. 
    
  Process Management reported strong sales and earnings growth on continued demand in global energy and chemical end markets. Climate Technologies sales and earnings increased on solid demand in the compressors business worldwide. Strong demand in U.S. residential end markets supported underlying sales and earnings growth in Commercial   Residential Solutions. Sales and earnings declined in the Industrial Automation businesses due to weakness in industrial goods end markets, particularly Europe and the U.S. Earnings comparisons in Industrial Automation were also unfavorably impacted by gains from dumping duties received in 2012. Network Power sales and earnings showed persistent weakness in telecommunications and information technology end markets. 
    
  The Company generated record operating cash flow of   $3.6 billion  , an increase of 20 percent from $3.1 billion in 2012. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) of   $3.0 billion   also reached record levels, increasing 24 percent from prior year. Emerson is well positioned moving into next year given its strong financial position, global footprint in both mature and emerging markets, and focus on products, technology and customer solutions. 
    2 

Net Sales 
  Net sales for 2013 were   $24.7 billion  , an increase of   $257 million  , or 1 percent compared with 2012. Consolidated results reflect a   2 percent   (  $388 million  ) increase in underlying sales driven by volume gains. Underlying sales exclude foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures. Foreign currency translation (  $55 million  ) and divestitures, net of acquisitions (  $76 million  ) had a combined negative 1 percent impact. Underlying sales were flat in the United States and grew 3 percent internationally. Segment results were mixed as sales in Process Management increased   $711 million   and Climate Technologies increased   $110 million  , while sales in Industrial Automation and Network Power decreased   $303 million   and   $244 million  , respectively. Commercial   Residential Solutions decreased   $12 million   due to the prior year Knaack divestiture, largely offset by growth in the remaining businesses. 
    
  Net sales for 2012 were $24.4 billion, an increase of $190 million, or 1 percent from 2011, on a 3 percent ($616 million) increase in underlying sales, a 2 percent ($411 million) unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a negligible ($15 million) negative impact from divestitures, net of acquisitions. Underlying sales reflect volume gains of 2 percent and an estimated 1 percent increase from price. Underlying sales increased 2 percent in the United States and 3 percent internationally. Segment results were mixed as sales in Process Management and Commercial   Residential Solutions increased $899 million and $40 million, respectively. Sales in Network Power, Climate Technologies and Industrial Automation decreased $412 million, $229 million and $106 million, respectively. 
    
  International Sales 
  Emerson is a global business with international sales representing 59% of total sales, including U.S. exports. The Company expects faster economic growth in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Africa.  
    
  International destination sales increased 2 percent in 2013, to   $14.7 billion  , reflecting increases in Process Management and Climate Technologies, offset by decreases in Network Power, Industrial Automation and Commercial   Residential Solutions. U.S. exports of   $1.6 billion   were up 2 percent compared with 2012. Underlying international destination sales grew 3 percent on volume, as foreign currency translation had a 1 percent unfavorable impact on the comparison with 2012. Underlying sales increased 2 percent in Asia, 11 percent in Latin America, 13 percent in Middle East/Africa and 4 percent in Canada, and decreased 3 percent in Europe. Sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the United States, totaled $13.1 billion in 2013, up 2 percent compared with 2012.  
    
  International destination sales increased 0.5 percent, to $14.4 billion in 2012, reflecting an increase in Process Management offset by decreases in Network Power, Industrial Automation and Climate Technologies. U.S. exports of $1.6 billion were up 4 percent compared with 2011. Underlying international destination sales increased 3 percent compared with 2011, including increases of 3 percent in Asia (China down 4 percent), 13 percent in Latin America, 7 percent in Middle East/Africa and 9 percent in Canada. Europe was down 1 percent. Sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the United States, totaled $12.8 billion in 2012, flat compared with 2011.  
    
  Acquisitions and Divestitures 
  On July 31, 2013, the Company entered into an agreement to sell a   51 percent   controlling interest in the embedded computing and power business for which it will receive approximately   $300   million in cash from the acquirer and through borrowing by a new entity which will include this business. The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar 2013 pending regulatory approvals. Embedded computing and power had 2013 revenue of $1.2 billion which is included in the Network Power segment. Sales and earnings for embedded computing and power will continue to be reported in the Company's consolidated results until completion of the transaction. As the Company will retain a noncontrolling interest in this business, it will not be classified as discontinued operations and will be accounted for on the equity basis upon completion. Emerson will repurchase   $600   million of shares in anticipation of proceeds from the transaction and repatriation of cash from this business, two-thirds of which was completed through October. On completion of the share repurchase, the impact of the sale is expected to be approximately neutral to 2014 earnings per share. See Note 3. 
    
  In October 2013 (fiscal 2014) the Company paid $506 million and assumed debt of $76 million to acquire Virgo Valves and Controls LTD,   a leading manufacturer of ball valves and automation systems  , and Enardo LLC,   a manufacturer of tank and terminal safety equipment used in the oil and gas, chemical and other industries.   Both of these businesses are in the Process Management segment and will complement the existing portfolio and create opportunities for additional growth.   In 2012, the Company acquired Avtron Loadbank in Network Power, and a  
    3 

marine controls and software solutions business in Climate Technologies. Two smaller businesses were also acquired during 2012 in Process Management and Network Power. Total cash paid for acquisitions in 2012 was approximately $187 million.  
    
  Cost of Sales 
  Cost of sales for 2013 and 2012 were   $14.7 billion   and $14.6 billion, resulting in gross profit of   $10.0 billion   or   40.3 percent   of sales in 2013, and   $9.8 billion   or   40.0 percent   of sales in 2012. The increases in gross profit and margin primarily reflect higher volume, particularly in Process Management, and materials cost containment and savings from cost reduction actions across the businesses. Deleverage in Industrial Automation and Network Power, product mix, and pension and other costs were unfavorable. 
    
  Costs of sales for 2012 and 2011 were $14.6 billion and $14.7 billion, resulting in gross profit of $9.8 billion or 40.0 percent of sales in 2012, and $9.6 billion or 39.5 percent of sales in 2011. Cost of sales was essentially flat due to savings from cost reduction actions offset by higher wage and other costs, and incremental costs related to the Thailand supply chain disruption. The increase in gross margin primarily reflects leverage on higher volume and selling prices. Additionally, gross profit was negatively impacted by foreign currency translation due to the stronger U.S. dollar.  
    
  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
  Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses of   $5.6 billion   increased   $212 million   compared with prior year. SG A as a percent of sales was   22.9 percent   in 2013, a 0.6 percentage point increase versus 22.3 percent in 2012. The increase in SG A primarily reflects costs associated with higher volume, $121 million of higher incentive stock compensation expense from the overlap of two performance shares programs and a higher stock price, as well as higher pension and other costs. Cost containment and the comparison effect of a $17 million charge in 2012 related to post-65 supplemental retiree medical benefits had a favorable impact.  
    
  SG A expenses for 2012 were $5.4 billion, or 22.3 percent of net sales, an increase of $108 million and 0.3 percentage points compared with $5.3 billion and 22.0 percent for 2011. The increase in SG A as a percent of sales was largely due to the business mix impact from higher Process Management volume and deleverage on lower volume in Network Power, Climate Technologies and Industrial Automation, partially offset by significant cost reduction actions. In addition, SG A increased on costs associated with incremental volume and a $17 million charge related to the elimination of post-65 supplemental retiree medical benefits for approximately 8,000 active employees, mostly offset by foreign currency translation and lower incentive stock compensation expense of $21 million. 
    
  Goodwill Impairment 
  The Company has faced persistent challenges in the embedded computing and power business due to protracted weak demand, structural industry developments and increased competition. These challenges, including weakness in telecommunication and mobile device markets, continued into 2013 and sales and earnings were both below expectations. In the third quarter of 2013 the Company recorded a noncash goodwill impairment charge of $503 million ($475 million after-tax, $0.65 per share). Income tax charges of $70 million ($0.10 per share) for the anticipated repatriation of non-U.S. earnings from this business were also recorded in 2013. Additionally, in the fourth quarter the Company's goodwill impairment testing indicated that the carrying value of the connectivity solutions business in Network Power exceeded its fair value due to operating results not meeting forecasted expectations, resulting in a noncash, pretax charge to earnings of $25 million ($21 million after-tax, $0.03 per share). See Note 6. 
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company incurred an impairment charge for the embedded computing and power business and the DC power systems business after its goodwill impairment testing revealed that the carrying values of these businesses exceeded the fair values. These businesses had been unable to meet operating objectives and the Company anticipated that growth in sales and earnings would be slower than previously expected given the end market circumstances noted previously. The carrying value of these businesses was reduced by a noncash, pretax charge to earnings totaling $592 million ($528 million after-tax, $0.72 per share). In 2011, the Company recorded a $19 million ($0.03 per share) noncash impairment charge related to the Industrial Automation wind turbine pitch control business, reflecting a slowdown in investment for alternative energy. 
    4 

Other Deductions, Net 
  Other deductions, net were   $362 million   in 2013, a   $39 million   decrease from 2012 primarily due to a   $41 million   reduction in rationalization expense, lower intangibles amortization expense of   $21 million  , and other items, partially offset by a gain of   $43 million   in 2012 from the receipt of dumping duties. See Note 4 for further details regarding other deductions, net, and Note 5 regarding rationalization costs.   
    
  Other deductions, net were $401 million in 2012, a $45 million increase from 2011, primarily due to an unfavorable impact from volatile foreign currency exchange rates, higher rationalization expense of $38 million and a small loss on the sale of the Knaack storage business. These items were partially offset by higher 2012 gains, including $43 million from the receipt of dumping duties, and lower intangibles amortization expense of $20 million. Gains in 2011 included a $15 million Process Management India joint venture acquisition gain.  
    
  Interest Expense, Net 
  Interest expense, net was   $218 million  ,   $224 million   and   $223 million   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease of $6 million in 2013 was primarily due to the maturity of debt and the issuance of long-term debt in 2013 at relatively lower average interest rates.  
    
  Income Taxes 
  Income taxes were   $1,130 million  ,   $1,091 million   and   $1,127 million   for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of   35 percent  ,   35 percent   and   31 percent  . The higher effective tax rates in 2013 and 2012 were due to the low deductibility of goodwill impairment charges in each year, and income tax charges in 2013 for anticipated repatriation of non-U.S. earnings related to embedded computing and power. These items had an unfavorable 6 percentage point impact in 2013 and a 4 percentage point impact in 2012.  
    
  Earnings from Continuing Operations  
  Earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders were   $2.0 billion  , up 2 percent compared with 2012. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were   $2.76  , up 3 percent versus   $2.67   in the prior year. Goodwill impairment and related income tax charges totaled $566 million, $0.78 per share, and were $38 million and $0.06 per share higher than in 2012. Earnings increased   $210 million   in Process Management,   $48 million   in Climate Technologies and   $8 million   in Commercial   Residential Solutions. Earnings decreased   $94 million   in Industrial Automation and   $70 million   in Network Power. See the Business Segments discussion that follows and Note 16 for additional information. 
    
  Earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders were $2.0 billion in 2012, a 20 percent decrease compared with $2.5 billion in 2011. Earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.67, an 18 percent decrease versus $3.24 in the prior year. The decreases were primarily due to the $528 million ($0.72 per share) after-tax goodwill impairment charge in 2012 which reduced both earnings and earnings per share by 21 percent. Earnings increased $197 million in Process Management, $41 million in Industrial Automation and $21 million in Commercial   Residential Solutions. Earnings decreased $132 million in Network Power and $41 million in Climate Technologies.  
    
  Discontinued Operations 
  In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company sold its heating elements unit for   $73 million  , resulting in an after-tax gain of   $21 million  . Fourth quarter 2011 sales and earnings for heating elements were   $12 million   and   $1 million  , respectively. The after-tax gain on divestiture and fourth quarter operating results for heating elements, plus the impact of finalizing the 2010 Motors and LANDesk divestitures, were classified as discontinued operations in 2011. Prior years results of operations for heating elements were inconsequential and were not reclassified. See Note 3 for additional information. 
    
  Net Earnings and Earnings Per Share; Returns on Equity and Total Capital 
  Net earnings attributable to common stockholders in 2013 were   $2.0 billion  , up   2 percent   versus prior year and diluted earnings per share were   $2.76  , up   3 percent  , reflecting the operating results discussed previously. The increase in earnings per share also reflects the purchase of treasury shares. Goodwill impairment and income tax charges were $38 million and $0.06 per share higher than in 2012, and reduced earnings and earnings per share growth 1 percentage point. Net earnings attributable to common stockholders in 2012 were $2.0 billion and earnings per share were $2.67, down 21 percent and 18 percent, respectively, versus 2011. Net earnings and earnings per share for 2012 were reduced 21 percent by the goodwill impairment charges.  
    
    5 

Return on common stockholders' equity (net earnings attributable to common stockholders divided by average common stockholders' equity) was   19.2 percent   in 2013 compared with   19.0 percent   in 2012 and 24.6 percent in 2011. Return on total capital was   16.4 percent   in 2013 compared with   15.8 percent   in 2012 and 19.6 percent in 2011, and is computed as net earnings attributable to common stockholders excluding after-tax net interest expense, divided by average common stockholders' equity plus short- and long-term debt less cash and short-term investments. Goodwill impairments and income tax charges reduced 2013 and 2012 return on common stockholders' equity 3.6 and 4.5 percentage points, respectively, and return on total capital 3.2 and 3.6 percentage points, respectively. 
    
    Business Segments 
  Following is an analysis of segment results for 2013 compared with 2012, and 2012 compared with 2011.  
  The Company defines segment earnings as earnings before interest and income taxes.  

2013 vs. 2012   - Process Management reported sales of   $8.6 billion   in 2013, an increase of   $711 million   or 9 percent, on strong growth in the measurement devices, final control and systems and solutions businesses, reflecting continued global oil and gas investment and demand in chemical and power end markets. Underlying sales increased   9 percent   on volume, while foreign currency translation had a   $23 million   unfavorable impact. Underlying sales growth was modest in the United States, up 3 percent, while growth was strong internationally. Asia was up 12 percent, Europe up 7 percent, Latin America up 22 percent, Middle East/Africa up 19 percent and Canada up 10 percent. Earnings increased   $210 million   and margin expanded 0.8 percentage points on higher volume, leverage and lower materials costs, partially offset by higher other costs. Benefits from cost reductions were offset by unfavorable product mix. Foreign currency transactions were $23 million favorable compared to prior year. The comparison for 2013 includes incremental costs incurred in the prior year related to Thailand flooding recovery. 
    
  2012 vs. 2011   - Process Management sales increased $899 million to $7.9 billion as all businesses reported higher sales. Strong growth in the measurement devices, final control and systems and solutions businesses was driven by solid global oil and gas investment and demand in the chemical and power end markets. The supply chain disruption from Thailand flooding that adversely affected results of several businesses in the first half of the year was resolved and nearly all of the volume was recovered in the second half. Underlying sales increased 15 percent on volume growth while foreign currency translation had a 2 percent ($135 million) unfavorable impact. Geographically, underlying sales increased in all regions, including 18 percent in the United States, 13 percent in Asia, 9 percent in Europe, 28 percent in Latin America, 16 percent in Middle East/Africa and 14 percent in Canada. Earnings increased $197 million, to $1,599 million, on higher volume and leverage. Margin increased slightly as benefits from volume, leverage and cost reduction actions were partially offset by approximately $30 million of incremental costs related to Thailand flooding, a $44 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency transactions, and higher wages and other costs. 
    6 

2013 vs. 2012   - Industrial Automation sales were   $4.9 billion   in 2013, a decrease of   $303 million   or 6 percent, as global demand for industrial goods remained weak, particularly in Europe. The power generating alternators and renewable energy businesses led the decline, largely due to customer inventory destocking in the alternators business for most of the year. Smaller decreases in the industrial motors, electrical drives, power transmission and materials joining businesses were slightly offset by an increase in hermetic motors from improved HVAC compressor demand. Underlying sales decreased   6 percent   on lower volume, while foreign currency translation had a   $13 million   unfavorable impact. Underlying sales decreased 11 percent in Europe and 6 percent in the United States, while sales increased 4 percent in Latin America and 6 percent in Middle East/Africa. Sales in Asia were flat. Earnings of   $777 million   were down   $94 million   and margin decreased   0.9   percentage points on lower volume, deleverage in the power generating alternators and industrial motors business and the electrical drives business, and the comparative effect of a   $43 million   gain in 2012 from the receipt of dumping duties. Savings from cost reduction actions and materials cost containment more than offset the volume decline and associated deleverage. The gain in 2012 had an unfavorable impact of 0.8 percentage points on the margin comparison. 
    
  2012 vs. 2011   - Industrial Automation sales decreased $106 million to $5.2 billion in 2012, reflecting solid growth in the electrical distribution and materials joining businesses offset by decreases in the electrical drives, solar and wind power, and power generating alternators and industrial motors businesses. First half softness in hermetic motors due to a global decline in compressor demand also affected results. Underlying sales grew 1 percent, reflecting an estimated 3 percent benefit from price and 2 percent lower volume, while unfavorable foreign currency translation deducted 3 percent ($140 million). Underlying sales increased 3 percent in the United States, 6 percent in Latin America and 4 percent in Canada, while sales decreased 1 percent in Europe. Sales in Asia were flat (China down 3 percent). Earnings of $871 million were up $41 million and margin increased 1.1 percentage points, reflecting a $43 million gain on payments received by the power transmission business related to dumping duties. Operationally, pricing and cost reduction benefits were largely offset by lower volume and resulting deleverage, and higher materials and other costs.  

2013 vs. 2012   - Sales for Network Power were   $6.2 billion   in 2013, a decrease of   $244 million   or 4 percent, reflecting continued weakness in telecommunications and information technology end markets. The network power systems business was down modestly as decreases in the telecommunications-related power, infrastructure management, precision cooling and uninterruptible power supplies businesses were partially offset by an increase in inbound power. Comparisons were adversely affected by $110 million of higher sales from the large Australian National Broadband Network project in 2012. The embedded computing and power business declined sharply due largely to lower end market demand and product rationalization, which had an approximate 2 percentage point negative impact on segment sales growth. Underlying sales were down   4 percent   overall on 3 percent lower volume and 1 percent lower price. Foreign currency translation had a   $16 million   unfavorable impact. Geographically, underlying sales decreased 6 percent in Asia, 5 percent in Europe, 2 percent in the United States and 8 percent in Canada, while sales increased 3 percent in Latin America and 5 percent in Middle East/Africa. Earnings of   $554 million   decreased   $70 million   and margin decreased   0.7   percentage points primarily due to lower volume, deleverage, higher other costs and an $8 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency transactions. Savings  
    7 

from cost reduction actions and lower rationalization expense of $28 million partially offset the decline. Materials cost containment offset the unfavorable impact of lower prices. In July, the company agreed to sell a controlling interest in embedded computing and power. See Goodwill Impairment in this discussion and Note 3.  
    
  2012 vs. 2011   - Sales for Network Power were $6.4 billion in 2012, a $412 million decrease reflecting protracted weakness in telecommunications and information technology end markets and product rationalization in the embedded computing and power business. A modest sales decrease in the network power systems business reflected weak demand in Europe and North America uninterruptible power supplies, data center infrastructure management products and North America telecommunications-related DC power systems. This decrease was partially offset by strong growth in Asia, including the National Broadband Network contract in Australia, and modest growth in Latin America. Total sales decreased 6 percent, reflecting an underlying sales decrease of 5 percent on lower volume and a 1 percent ($83 million) unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, while the Avtron acquisition had a $27 million favorable impact. Geographically, underlying sales decreased 10 percent in both the United States and Europe and 2 percent in Latin America, while sales increased 2 percent in Asia (down 4 percent in China) and 5 percent in Canada. Earnings of $624 million decreased $132 million and margin decreased 1.4 percentage points primarily due to lower volume and resulting deleverage, particularly in the embedded computing and power business, partially offset by cost reductions and materials cost containment. Segment margin was also affected by higher labor-related costs, unfavorable product mix, higher rationalization expense of $33 million and a  
  $10 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency transactions. Additionally, Chloride acquisition-related costs were $24 million in 2011.  

2013 vs. 2012   - Sales for Climate Technologies were   $3.9 billion   in 2013, an increase of   $110 million   or 3 percent, primarily led by moderate growth in the compressors business worldwide. The temperature controls and temperature sensors businesses were up slightly. The increase in compressor sales was driven by solid growth in global air conditioning while refrigeration sales declined slightly. Underlying segment sales increased   3 percent   on volume growth. Foreign currency had a   $1 million   unfavorable impact. Underlying sales increased in nearly all geographies, with the United States up 2 percent, Asia up 5 percent, Europe up 2 percent and Latin America up 2 percent. Sales decreased 1 percent in Canada. Earnings increased   $48 million   on higher volume in the compressors business, material cost containment and savings from cost reduction actions. Margin increased 0.8 percentage points on savings from cost reduction actions, materials cost containment and lower rationalization expense of $8 million, partially offset by unfavorable product mix. 
    
  2012 vs. 2011   - Climate Technologies sales decreased   $229 million   in 2012 to   $3.8 billion  . Sales decreased in the air conditioning, temperature controls and temperature sensors businesses as global softness in residential markets and overall weakness in Europe adversely affected results. Air conditioning sales decreased in North America, China and Europe, slightly offset by growth in the rest of Asia (excluding China). Refrigeration sales were down significantly in Europe and Asia, partially offset by slight growth in the U.S. Underlying sales decreased   5 percent  , including 7 percent lower volume, slightly offset by approximately 2 percent from price. Foreign currency had a   1 percent   (  $42 million  ) unfavorable impact and the marine controls acquisition had a negligible contribution (  $21 million  ). Underlying sales decreased 4 percent in the United States, 10 percent in Asia (down 18 percent in China) and 9 percent in Europe, while sales increased 14 percent in Latin America and 3 percent in Canada. Earnings decreased   $41 million   on lower volume, while margin was essentially flat as the impact of deleverage was minimized through savings from cost reduction actions and lower warranty costs. Price actions were offset by higher materials and other costs.  
    8 

2013 vs. 2012   - Commercial   Residential Solutions sales were   $1.9 billion   in 2013, a decrease of   $12 million   or 1 percent, including a negative   4 percent   (  $76 million  ) comparative impact from the Knaack storage business divestiture in 2012. Underlying sales grew 3 percent ($64 million) from higher volume. The sales increase was led by strong growth in the food waste disposers business and modest growth in the storage and professional tools businesses, partially offset by a slight decrease in the wet/dry vacuums business. Underlying sales increased 6 percent in the United States and declined 3 percent internationally. Earnings of   $404 million   were up   $8 million   compared to the prior year. The Knaack divestiture in 2012 unfavorably impacted earnings by $11 million. Margin increased   0.6   percentage points on savings from cost reduction actions and materials cost containment, partially offset by unfavorable product mix and higher other costs. 
    
  2012 vs. 2011   - Commercial   Residential Solutions sales increased $40 million to $1.9 billion in 2012, reflecting a 6 percent ($103 million) increase in underlying sales, partially offset by an unfavorable 4 percent ($63 million) combined impact from the 2012 Knaack storage business and 2011 heating elements divestitures. Underlying sales growth reflects 4 percent higher volume and an estimated 2 percent from price. The sales increase was led by strong growth in both the storage and food waste disposers businesses and moderate growth in the professional tools business, partially offset by a slight decrease in the wet/dry vacuums business. Underlying sales increased 4 percent in the United States and 9 percent internationally. Earnings of $396 million were up $21 million compared to the prior year. Higher volume and leverage increased margin 0.7 percentage points as pricing and cost containment actions were partially offset by higher materials, litigation and other costs, and unfavorable product mix. Earnings were also affected by a $7 million unfavorable comparison with prior year from the divested heating elements business. 
    
    Financial Position, Capital Resources and Liquidity 
  The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operations, is in a strong financial position with total assets of   $25 billion   and common stockholders' equity of   $11 billion  , and has the resources available to reinvest for growth in existing businesses, pursue strategic acquisitions and manage its capital structure on a short- and long-term basis. 

9 

Emerson generated operating cash flow of   $3.6 billion   in 2013, a   20 percent   increase compared to 2012 primarily as a result of focused efforts to reduce operating working capital. Operating cash flow of   $3.1 billion   in 2012 was a   6 percent   decrease compared to   $3.2 billion   in 2011, reflecting an increase in operating working capital. At September 30, 2013, operating working capital as a percent of sales was   6.8 percent  , compared with 8.7 percent and   7.0 percent   in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company made pension contributions of   $160 million   in 2013,   $163 million   in 2012 and   $142 million   in 2011. Operating cash flow fully funded capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends and share repurchases in all years presented.   
    
  Capital expenditures were   $678 million  ,   $665 million   and   $647 million   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Free cash flow increased   24 percent   to   $3.0 billion   in 2013, on lower operating working capital, partially offset by increased capital expenditures. Free cash flow was   $2.4 billion   in 2012, compared with   $2.6 billion   in 2011, primarily reflecting an increase in operating working capital. The Company is targeting capital spending of approximately $750 million in 2014. Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions was   $19 million  ,   $187 million   and   $232 million   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Proceeds from divestitures in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $3 million,   $125 million   and   $103 million  , respectively.   
    
  Dividends were   $1,181 million   (  $1.64   per share) in 2013, compared with   $1,171 million   (  $1.60   per share) in 2012 and   $1,039 million   (  $1.38   per share) in 2011. In November 2013, the Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash dividend 5 percent to an annualized rate of $1.72 per share.  
    
  In May 2013, the Board of Directors approved a new program for the repurchase of up to 70 million common shares subsequent to the completion of the May 2008 authorization for 80 million shares. In 2013, a total of 20.3 million shares were repurchased under the 2013 and 2008 authorizations; in 2012 and 2011, 16.4 million shares and 18.7 million shares, respectively, were repurchased under the 2008 authorization. 63.9 million shares remain available for repurchase under the 2013 authorization and none remain available under the the 2008 authorization. Purchases of Emerson common stock totaled   $1,189 million  ,   $787 million   and   $958 million   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, at an average per share price of $58.51, $47.94 and $51.31, respectively.  

Total debt, which includes long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, was   $5.6 billion  ,   $5.3 billion   and $5.2 billion for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. During the year, the Company repaid $250 million of 4.625% notes that matured in October 2012 and $250 million of 4.5% notes that matured in May 2013. In 2013, the Company issued $500 million of 2.625% notes due February 2023 under an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used for general corporate purposes and to repay commercial paper borrowings. 
    
  The total debt-to-capital ratio increased primarily due to higher average borrowings in the current year. The net debt-to-net capital ratio (less cash and short-term investments) improved, reflecting an increase in equity and cash. The operating cash flow-to-debt ratio also improved in 2013, reflecting an increase in operating cash flow. The interest coverage ratio is computed as earnings before income taxes plus interest expense, divided by interest expense. The increase in interest coverage in 2013 compared to 2012 reflects higher earnings and lower interest expense in the current year, resulting from the replacement of matured long-term debt with lower average interest rate borrowings. The decrease in interest coverage in 2012 compared to 2011 reflects lower earnings. See Notes 8 and 9 for additional information.  
    10 

The Company maintains a $2.75 billion four-year revolving backup credit facility which expires in December 2014 to support short-term borrowings.   There were no borrowings against U.S. lines of credit in the last three years.   The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change in credit ratings or material adverse changes. The Company maintains a universal shelf registration statement on file with the SEC under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts or share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of sale. 
    
  Emerson maintains a conservative financial structure which provides the strength and flexibility necessary to achieve its strategic objectives. The Company has been successful in efficiently deploying cash where needed worldwide to fund operations, complete acquisitions and sustain long-term growth. Substantially all of the Company's cash is held outside the U.S., primarily in Europe and Asia, and is available for repatriation to the U.S. Under current tax law, repatriated cash may be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, net of available foreign tax credits. The Company routinely repatriates a portion of its non-U.S. cash from earnings each year, or otherwise when it can be accomplished tax efficiently, and provides for U.S. income taxes as appropriate. The Company has been able to readily meet all its funding requirements and currently believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet the Company's needs in the foreseeable future through operating cash flow, existing resources, short- and long-term debt capacity or backup credit lines. 
    
  Contractual Obligations 
  At September 30, 2013, the Company's contractual obligations, including estimated payments, are as follows: 

Purchase obligations consist primarily of inventory purchases made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. The table above does not include   $2.3 billion   of other noncurrent liabilities recorded in the balance sheet and summarized in Note 17, which consist primarily of pension and postretirement plan liabilities and deferred income taxes (including unrecognized tax benefits), because it is not certain when these amounts will become due. See Notes 10 and 11 for estimated future benefit payments and Note 13 for additional information on deferred income taxes.  
    
  Financial Instruments 
  The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased options to manage these risks. The Company does not hold derivatives for trading purposes. The value of market risk sensitive derivative and other financial instruments is subject to change as a result of movements in market rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to forecast the impact of these movements. Based on a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates, a 10 percent decrease in commodity prices or a 10 percent weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses in future earnings, fair value or cash flows are not material. Sensitivity analysis has limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results, and lower commodity prices would benefit future earnings through lower cost of sales. See Notes 1, and 7 through 9.  
    
    Critical Accounting Policies 
  Preparation of the Company's financial statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates regarding uncertainties that could affect reported revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Note 1 describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most significant areas where management judgments and estimates impact the primary financial statements are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management's estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  
    11 

Revenue Recognition  
  The Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured products and records the sale when products are shipped or delivered, and title passes to the customer with collection reasonably assured. In certain limited circumstances, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method as performance occurs, or in accordance with ASC 985-605 related to software. Sales arrangements sometimes involve delivering multiple elements, including services such as installation. In these instances, the revenue assigned to each element is based on vendor-specific objective evidence, third-party evidence or a management estimate of the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized individually for delivered elements only if they have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and the performance of the undelivered items is probable and substantially in the Company's control, or the undelivered elements are inconsequential or perfunctory and there are no unsatisfied contingencies related to payment. Management believes that all relevant criteria and conditions are considered when recognizing revenue.  
    
  Inventories  
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory values are based on standard costs, which approximate average costs, while the remainder are principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Cost standards are revised at the beginning of each year. The annual effect of resetting standards plus any operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between inventories and cost of sales. The Company's businesses review inventory for obsolescence, make appropriate provisions and dispose of obsolete inventory on a regular basis. Various factors are considered in these reviews, including sales history and recent trends, industry conditions and general economic conditions.  
    
  Long-Lived Assets  
  Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate impairment may exist. If the Company determines that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a permanent impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Reporting units are also reviewed for possible goodwill impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter. If an initial assessment indicates it is more likely than not an impairment may exist, it is evaluated by comparing the unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value. Fair value is generally estimated using an income approach based on discounted future cash flows using a discount rate judged by management to be commensurate with the applicable risk. Estimates of future sales, operating results, cash flows and discount rates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including such factors as the general level of market interest rates, expected equity market returns and volatility of markets served, particularly when recessionary economic circumstances continue for an extended period of time. Management believes the estimates of future cash flows and fair values are reasonable; however, changes in estimates due to variance from assumptions could materially affect the evaluations. 
    
  At the end of 2013, Emerson's total market value based on its exchange-traded stock price was approximately $46 billion while its common stockholders' equity was   $11 billion  .The European network power systems business, with goodwill of $1.0 billion, has faced integration challenges as well as difficult end markets stemming from the financial crisis and persistent weak economy in Europe. The estimated fair value of this business exceeded its carrying value by less than 10 percent. The assumptions used in estimating fair value include the resumption of economic growth in Europe, continued successful execution of plans to expand the business and improve the cost structure, and end market growth for data center services and solutions, including uninterruptible power supplies and precision cooling. 
    
  Retirement Plans 
  While the Company continues to focus on a prudent long-term investment strategy for its pension-related assets, the determination of defined benefit plan expense and obligations are dependent on assumptions made, including the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and the rate of annual compensation increases. Management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate; however, actual experience may differ. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the Company's assumptions are accumulated as deferred actuarial gains or losses and amortized to expense in future periods.  
    
  As of September 30, 2013, pension plans were underfunded by a total of   $121 million   (which includes $368 million of unfunded plans). The Company contributed   $160 million   to defined benefit plans in 2013 and expects to contribute approximately   $145 million   in 2014. At year-end 2013, the discount rate for U.S. plans was   4.75 percent  , and was   4.00 percent   in 2012. The assumed investment return on plan assets was   7.75 percent   in both 2013 and 2012, and is expected to be 7.50 percent in 2014. Deferred actuarial losses to be amortized to expense in future  
    12 

years were   $1.2 billion   ($800 million after-tax) as of September 30, 2013. Defined benefit pension plan expense for 2014 is expected to be approximately   $155 million  , compared with   $228 million   in 2013, which reflects the impact of the higher interest rate environment and favorable investment performance the last two years. See Notes 10 and 11. 
    
  Income Taxes  
  Income tax expense and tax assets and liabilities reflect management's assessment of taxes paid or expected to be paid (received) on items included in the financial statements. Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns still under examination and positions expected to be taken in future returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise because of temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized.The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company also pays U.S. federal income taxes, net of available foreign tax credits, on cash repatriated from non-U.S. locations. No provision is made for U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries where these earnings are considered permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Notes 1, 3 and 13. 
    
  Other Items 
    
  Legal Matters 
  On October 22, 2012, Invensys Systems, Inc. filed a suit for patent infringement against the Company and its wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, Micro Motion, Inc., in the Eastern District of Texas captioned   Invensys Systems, Inc. v. Emerson Electric Co. and Micro Motion, Inc., USA  . The complaint alleges infringement on Invensys patents by Micro Motion's Coriolis flowmeter "Enhanced Core Processors." The Invensys suit seeks unspecified damages for past infringement and an injunction preventing the Company and Micro Motion from engaging in future infringement. It is too early in the litigation to assess any potential financial impact. The Company and Micro Motion believe that the Invensys claims are without merit and that they have strong defenses to the claims, and intend to aggressively defend the suit. 
    
  At September 30, 2013, there were no known contingent liabilities (including guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes will be material in relation to the Company's financial statements, nor were there any material commitments outside the normal course of business. 
    
  New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In January 2013, the FASB issued updates to ASC 210,   Balance Sheet  , requiring entities to disclose additional amounts related to derivatives subject to enforceable master netting arrangements, including collateral, and reconcile those amounts to the net amount presented in the balance sheet.  These updates are effective for the first quarter of 2014 and will not materially impact the Company s financial statements. 
    
  In February 2013, the FASB issued updates to ASC 220,   Comprehensive Income  , requiring entities to disclose reclassifications into earnings from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) by income statement line item, and other current period activity. There is no change to the items to be reported in AOCI or when those items should be reclassified into earnings.  These updates are effective for the first quarter of 2014.   

13 

Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  Years ended September 30 
  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    14 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  Years ended September 30 
  (Dollars in millions) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    15 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  September 30  
  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   

    16 

Consolidated Statements of Equity 
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  Years ended September 30 
  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    17 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  Years ended September 30 
  (Dollars in millions) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    18 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  EMERSON ELECTRIC CO.   SUBSIDIARIES 
    
  Years ended September 30 
  (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts or where noted) 
    
    (1)  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICES 
    
  Financial Statement Presentation  
  The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles  
  (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation. See Note 3 for operating results that have been classified as discontinued operations in 2011.  
    
  Effective October 1, 2012, the Company adopted updates to ASC 220,   Comprehensive Income  , and now presents comprehensive income in a separate financial statement immediately following the statement of earnings. This update does not change the items reported in other comprehensive income or when those items should be reclassified into earnings. Effective first quarter 2014, additional disclosures will be required for comprehensive income, including presenting reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income by income statement line item. 
    
  Principles of Consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its controlled affiliates. Intercompany transactions, profits and balances are eliminated in consolidation. Investments of   20 percent   to   50 percent   of the voting shares of other entities are accounted for by the equity method. Investments in publicly-traded companies of less than   20 percent   are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Investments in nonpublicly-traded companies of less than   20 percent   are carried at cost. 
    
  Foreign Currency Translation 
  The functional currency for most of the Company's non-U.S. subsidiaries is the local currency. Adjustments resulting from translating local currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. 
    
  Cash Equivalents 
  Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 
    
  Inventories 
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The majority of inventory is valued based on standard costs that approximate average costs, while the remainder is principally valued on a first-in, first-out basis. Cost standards are revised at the beginning of each fiscal year. The annual effect of resetting standards plus any operating variances incurred during each period are allocated between inventories and cost of sales. Following are the components of inventory as of September 30: 

Fair Value Measurement 
  ASC 820,   Fair Value Measurement  , establishes a formal hierarchy and framework for measuring certain financial statement items at fair value, and requires disclosures about fair value measurements and the reliability of valuation inputs. Under ASC 820, measurement assumes the transaction to sell an asset or transfer a liability occurs in the principal or at least the most advantageous market for that asset or liability. Within the hierarchy, Level 1 instruments use observable market prices for the identical item in active markets and have the most reliable valuations. Level 2 instruments are valued through broker/dealer quotation or other approaches using market-observable inputs for similar items in active markets, including forward and spot prices, interest rates and volatilities. Level 3 instruments are valued using inputs not observable in an active market, such as company- 
    19 

developed future cash flow estimates, and are considered the least reliable. Valuations for all of Emerson's financial instruments fall within Level 2. The fair value of the Company's long-term debt is Level 2, estimated using current interest rates and pricing from financial institutions and other market sources for debt with similar maturities and characteristics.  
    
  Property, Plant and Equipment 
  The Company records investments in land, buildings, and machinery and equipment at cost. Depreciation is computed principally using the straight-line method over estimated service lives, which for principal assets are   30   to   40 years   for buildings and   8   to   12 years   for machinery and equipment. Long-lived tangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Impairment losses are recognized based on estimated fair values if the sum of expected future undiscounted cash flows of the related assets is less than their carrying values. The components of property, plant and equipment as of September 30 follow: 

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
  Assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method and recorded at their respective fair values. Substantially all goodwill is assigned to the reporting unit that acquires a business. A reporting unit is an operating segment as defined in ASC 280,   Segment Reporting  , or a business one level below an operating segment if discrete financial information for that business unit is prepared and regularly reviewed by the segment manager. The Company conducts annual impairment tests of goodwill in the fourth quarter. If an initial assessment indicates it is more likely than not goodwill might be impaired, it is evaluated by comparing the reporting unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value. Goodwill is also tested for impairment between annual tests if events or circumstances indicate the fair value of a unit may be less than its carrying value. If the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value, impairment is recognized to the extent that recorded goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill. Estimated fair values of reporting units are Level 3 measures and are developed primarily under an income approach that discounts estimated future cash flows using risk-adjusted interest rates.  
    
  All of the Company's identifiable intangible assets are subject to amortization on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Identifiable intangibles consist of intellectual property such as patents and trademarks, customer relationships and capitalized software. Identifiable intangibles are also subject to evaluation for potential impairment if events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. See Note 6. 
    
  Product Warranty 
  Warranties vary by product line and are competitive for the markets in which the Company operates. Warranties generally extend for a period of   one   to   two   years from the date of sale or installation. Provisions for warranty are determined primarily based on historical warranty cost as a percentage of sales or a fixed amount per unit sold based on failure rates, adjusted for specific problems that may arise. Product warranty expense is less than   one percent   of sales.   
    
  Revenue Recognition 
  The Company recognizes nearly all of its revenues through the sale of manufactured products and records the sale when products are shipped or delivered, and title passes to the customer with collection reasonably assured. In certain limited circumstances, revenue is recognized using the percentage-of-completion method as performance occurs, or in accordance with ASC 985-605 related to software. Management believes that all relevant criteria and conditions are considered when recognizing revenue. 
    
    20 

Sales arrangements sometimes involve delivering multiple elements, including services such as installation. In these instances, the revenue assigned to each element is based on vendor-specific objective evidence, third-party evidence or a management estimate of the relative selling price. Revenue is recognized individually for delivered elements only if they have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and the performance of the undelivered items is probable and substantially in the Company's control, or the undelivered elements are inconsequential or perfunctory and there are no unsatisfied contingencies related to payment. Approximately   ten percent   of the Company's revenues arise from qualifying sales arrangements that include the delivery of multiple elements, principally in the Network Power and Process Management segments. The vast majority of these deliverables are tangible products, with a small portion attributable to installation, service or maintenance. Generally, contract duration is short-term and cancellation, termination or refund provisions apply only in the event of contract breach, and have historically not been invoked.  
    
  Derivatives and Hedging 
  In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices due to its worldwide presence and diverse business profile. Emerson's foreign currency exposures primarily relate to transactions denominated in euros, Mexican pesos, Canadian dollars and Chinese renminbi. Primary commodity exposures are price fluctuations on forecasted purchases of copper and aluminum and related products. As part of the Company's risk management strategy, derivative instruments are selectively used in an effort to minimize the impact of these exposures. Foreign exchange forwards and options are utilized to hedge foreign currency exposures impacting sales or cost of sales transactions, firm commitments and the fair value of assets and liabilities, while swap and option contracts may be used to minimize the effect of commodity price fluctuations on the cost of sales. All derivatives are associated with specific underlying exposures and the Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The duration of hedge positions is generally   two years   or less and amounts currently hedged beyond 18 months are not significant. 
    
  All derivatives are accounted for under ASC 815,   Derivatives and Hedging  , and recognized at fair value. For derivatives hedging variability in future cash flows, the effective portion of any gain or loss is deferred in stockholders' equity and recognized when the underlying hedged transaction impacts earnings. The majority of the Company's derivatives that are designated as hedges and qualify for deferral accounting are cash flow hedges. For derivatives hedging the fair value of existing assets or liabilities, both the gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item are recognized in earnings each period. Currency fluctuations on non-U.S. dollar obligations that have been designated as hedges of non-U.S. dollar net asset exposures are reported in equity. To the extent that any hedge is not fully effective at offsetting changes in the underlying hedged item, there could be a net earnings impact. The Company also uses derivatives to hedge economic exposures that do not receive deferral accounting under ASC 815. The underlying exposures for these hedges relate primarily to purchases of commodity-based components used in the Company's manufacturing processes, and the revaluation of certain foreign-currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Gains or losses from the ineffective portion of any hedge, as well as any gains or losses on derivative instruments not designated as hedges, are recognized in the income statement immediately. 
    
  Counterparties to derivative arrangements are companies with high credit ratings and the Company has bilateral collateral arrangements with them for which credit rating-based posting thresholds vary depending on the arrangement. If credit ratings on the Company's debt fall below preestablished levels, counterparties can require immediate full collateralization on all instruments in net liability positions. Similarly, Emerson can demand full collateralization of instruments in net asset positions should any of the Company's counterparties' credit ratings fall below certain thresholds. Risk from credit loss when derivatives are in asset positions is not considered material. The Company has master netting arrangements in place with its counterparties that allow the offsetting of certain derivative-related amounts receivable and payable when settlement occurs in the same period. Accordingly, counterparty balances are netted in the consolidated balance sheet. Net values of contracts are reported in other current assets or accrued expenses as appropriate depending on positions with counterparties as of the balance sheet date. See Note 7. 
    
  Income Taxes 
  The provision for income taxes is based on pretax income reported in the consolidated statements of earnings and tax rates currently enacted in each jurisdiction. Certain income and expense items are recognized in different time periods for financial reporting and income tax filing purposes, and deferred income taxes are provided for the effect of temporary differences. The Company also provides for U.S. federal income taxes, net of available foreign tax credits, on earnings intended to be repatriated from non-U.S. locations. No provision has been made for U.S. income taxes on approximately   $7.1 billion   of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries as of September 30,  
    21 

2013, as these earnings are considered permanently invested or otherwise indefinitely retained for continuing international operations. Recognition of U.S. taxes on undistributed non-U.S. earnings would be triggered by a management decision to repatriate those earnings, although there is no current intention to do so. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Note 13. 
    
  Comprehensive Income 
  Comprehensive income is primarily composed of net earnings plus changes in foreign currency translation, pension and postretirement adjustments, and the effective portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges. Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax (a component of equity), consists of foreign currency translation credits of   $504   and   $466  , deferred pension and postretirement charges of   $692   and   $1,213   and cash flow hedges and other charges of   $1   and credits of   $16  , respectively, at September 30, 2013 and 2012. Accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries consists primarily of earnings, and changes in foreign currency translation.   
    
    (2)  WEIGHTED-AVERAGE COMMON SHARES 
    
  Basic earnings per common share consider only the weighted-average of common shares outstanding while diluted earnings per common share also consider the dilutive effects of stock options and incentive shares. Options to purchase approximately   0.6 million  ,   7.7 million   and   4.6 million   shares of common stock were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as the effect would have been antidilutive. Earnings allocated to participating securities were inconsequential for all years presented. Reconciliations of weighted-average shares for basic and diluted earnings per common share follow (shares in millions):   

(3)  ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 
    
  On July 31, 2013, the Company entered into an agreement to sell a   51 percent   controlling interest in the embedded computing and power business for which it will receive approximately   $300   in cash from the acquirer and through borrowing by a new entity which will include this business. The transaction is expected to close before the end of calendar 2013 pending regulatory approvals. Embedded computing and power had 2013 revenue of   $1.2 billion   and earnings before taxes of   $44   which are included in the Network Power segment. Sales and earnings for embedded computing and power will continue to be reported in the Company's consolidated results until completion of the transaction. As the Company will retain a noncontrolling interest in this business, it will not be classified as discontinued operations and will be accounted for on the equity basis upon completion. Transaction fair value was determined based on anticipated cash proceeds and the estimated value of the retained interest using a Level 3 market approach (option pricing model). Assets and liabilities for embedded computing and power are classified as held-for-sale in the consolidated balance sheet at September 30, 2013 as follows: other current assets,   $408   (accounts receivable, inventories, other); other assets,   $190   (property plant and equipment, goodwill, other noncurrent assets); accrued expenses,   $272   (accounts payable and other current liabilities); and other liabilities,   $20  . The Company recorded goodwill impairment charges in both 2013 and 2012, and income tax charges in 2013, related to this business. See Note 6 for information regarding impairment charges. 
    
  In October 2013 (fiscal 2014), the Company acquired Virgo Valves and Controls, LTD, a leading manufacturer of ball valves and automation systems which will complement Process Management's existing final control business, and allow opportunities for additional growth in global oil and gas, mining and power end markets. Also in October 2013, the Company acquired Enardo LLC, a manufacturer of tank and terminal safety equipment used in the oil and gas, chemical and other industries which will complement Process Management's existing regulator technologies and extend the Company's expertise in both upstream and downstream markets. Total cash paid for both businesses was approximately   $506  , net of cash acquired. The Company also assumed   $76   of debt. Combined annualized sales for Virgo and Enardo were over   $300  . 

22 

The Company acquired one-hundred percent of Avtron Loadbank and a marine controls business during the second quarter of 2012. Avtron is a designer and manufacturer of high quality load banks and testing systems for power   equipment industries and is included in the Network Power segment. The marine controls business supplies controls and software solutions for optimal operation of refrigerated sea containers and marine boilers and is included in the Climate Technologies segment. In addition, the Company acquired two smaller businesses during 2012 in the Process Management and Network Power segments. These small acquisitions were complementary to the existing business portfolios and none was individually significant. Total cash paid for all businesses was approximately   $187  , net of cash acquired of   $5  . Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2012 were approximately   $115  . Goodwill of   $94   (  $36   of which is expected to be tax deductible) and identifiable intangible assets of   $82  , primarily customer relationships and patents and technology with a weighted-average life of approximately   9   years, were recognized from these transactions.  
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company sold its Knaack business unit for   $114  , resulting in an after-tax loss of   $5   (  $3   income tax benefit). Knaack had 2012 sales of   $95   and net earnings of   $7  . Knaack, a leading provider of premium secure storage solutions for job sites and work vehicles, was previously reported in the Commercial   Residential Solutions business segment.    
    
  The Company acquired several small businesses during 2011 which were complementary to the existing portfolios in mainly the Process Management and Climate Technologies segments. Total cash paid for all businesses was approximately   $232  , net of cash acquired of   $2  . Annualized sales for businesses acquired in 2011 were approximately   $100  . Goodwill of   $125   (  none     of which is expected to be tax deductible) and identifiable intangible assets of   $75  , primarily customer relationships and patents and technology with a weighted-average life of approximately   12   years, were recognized from these transactions. 
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company sold its heating elements unit, which was previously included in the Commercial   Residential Solutions segment, for   $73  , resulting in an after-tax gain of   $21   (net of   $30   of income taxes). Heating elements had 2011 fourth quarter sales of   $12   and net earnings of   $1  . Only the gain on divestiture and fourth quarter operating results for heating elements, plus the impact of finalizing the 2010 Motors and LANDesk divestitures, were classified as discontinued operations for 2011; prior fiscal 2011 quarters and prior year results of operations for heating elements were inconsequential and were not reclassified. 
    
  The results of operations of the acquired businesses discussed above have been included in the Company's consolidated results of operations since the respective dates of acquisition. 
    
    (4)  OTHER DEDUCTIONS, NET 

Other is composed of several items that are individually immaterial, including foreign currency transaction gains and losses, bad debt expense, equity investment income and losses, as well as other items such as litigation and disputed matters and insurance recoveries. Other decreased in 2013 primarily because of the receipt of an international research and development credit, lower foreign currency transaction losses and the comparative impact from the loss on the sale of the Knaack business in 2012. Other increased in 2012 due to higher foreign currency transaction losses and the loss on the Knaack sale. Gains, net decreased in 2013 due to   $43   of dumping duties collected from U.S. Customs in 2012. Gains, net for 2011 included   $15   related to the acquisition of full ownership of a Process Management joint venture in India. 
    23 

(5)  RATIONALIZATION OF OPERATIONS 
    
  Rationalization of operations expense reflects costs associated with the Company's efforts to continually improve operational efficiency and deploy assets globally to remain competitive on a worldwide basis. Each year the Company incurs costs to size its businesses to levels appropriate for current economic conditions and to improve its cost structure for future growth. Rationalization expenses result from numerous individual actions implemented across the Company's various operating units on an ongoing basis and include costs for moving facilities to best-cost locations, starting up plants after relocation or geographic expansion to serve local markets, exiting certain product lines, curtailing/downsizing operations because of changing economic conditions and other costs resulting from asset redeployment decisions. Shutdown costs include severance and benefits, stay bonuses, lease and contract termination costs and asset write-downs. In addition to the costs of moving fixed assets, start-up and moving costs include employee training and relocation. Vacant facility costs include security, maintenance, utilities and other costs.  
    
  Rationalization expenses were   $78  ,   $119   and   $81  , respectively, for 2013, 2012 and 2011. The Company currently expects to incur 2014 rationalization expense of approximately   $90  , including costs to complete actions initiated before the end of 2013 and for actions anticipated to be approved and initiated during 2014.  
    
  The change in the liability for the rationalization of operations during the years ended September 30 follows: 

Rationalization of operations expense by segment is summarized as follows: 

Expenses incurred during 2013, 2012 and 2011 include actions to exit   13  ,   20   and   18   production, distribution or office facilities, and eliminate approximately   3,100  ,   2,700   and   2,800   positions, respectively, as well as costs related to facilities exited in previous periods. Costs have been concentrated in Network Power and Industrial Automation recently due to end market softness for these segments, including embedded computing and power, and acquisition integration activity in Network Power. The majority of costs have been incurred in Europe, North America and Asia. 
    24 

(6)  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES 
    
  Purchases of businesses are accounted for under the acquisition method, with substantially all goodwill assigned to the reporting unit that acquires the business. Under an impairment test performed annually, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, impairment is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount of the unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill. Fair values of reporting units are Level 3 measures, estimated primarily using an income approach that discounts future cash flows using risk-adjusted interest rates, and are subject to change due to changes in underlying economic conditions. See Note 3 for further discussion of changes in goodwill related to acquisitions and divestitures.  
    
  The Company has faced persistent challenges in the embedded computing and power business due to protracted weak demand, structural industry developments and increased competition. These challenges, including weakness in telecommunication and mobile device markets, continued into 2013 and sales and earnings were both below expectations. In the third quarter of 2013, the Company recorded a noncash goodwill impairment charge of   $503   (  $475   after-tax,   $0.65   per share). Income tax charges of   $70   (  $0.10   per share) for the anticipated repatriation of non-U.S. earnings from this business were also recorded in 2013. Additionally, in the fourth quarter the Company's goodwill impairment testing indicated that the carrying value of the connectivity solutions business in Network Power exceeded its fair value due to operating results not meeting forecasted expectations, resulting in a noncash, pretax charge to earnings of   $25   (  $21   after-tax,   $0.03   per share). Management considered strategic alternatives for embedded computing and power, and on July 31, 2013 the Company entered into an agreement to sell a   51 percent   controlling interest in this business. See Note 3 for additional information regarding the sale. 
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company incurred an impairment charge for the embedded computing and power business and the DC power systems business, after goodwill impairment testing revealed that the carrying values of these businesses exceeded the fair values. These businesses had been unable to meet operating objectives and the Company anticipated that growth in sales and earnings would be slower than previously expected given the end market circumstances noted previously. The carrying value of these businesses was reduced by a noncash, pretax charge to earnings totaling   $592   (  $528   after-tax,   $0.72   per share). In 2011, the Company recorded a   $19   (  $0.03   per share) noncash, pretax impairment charge related to the Industrial Automation wind turbine pitch control business, reflecting a slowdown in investment for renewable energy. 
    
  The change in the carrying value of goodwill by business segment follows. Cumulative pretax impairment charges in Network Power total   $1.1 billion  .  

25 

The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of identifiable intangible assets by major class follow: 

Total intangible asset amortization expense for 2013, 2012 and 2011 was   $298  ,   $318   and   $345  , respectively. Based on intangible asset balances as of September 30, 2013, amortization expense is expected to approximate   $292   in 2014,   $264   in 2015,   $224   in 2016,   $199   in 2017 and   $163   in 2018. 
      
  (7)  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
    
  Hedging Activities 
  As of September 30, 2013, the notional amount of foreign currency hedge positions was approximately   $1.5 billion  , while commodity hedge contracts totaled approximately   62 million   pounds ($  175  ) of copper and aluminum. All derivatives receiving deferral accounting are cash flow hedges. The majority of hedging gains and losses deferred as of September 30, 2013 are expected to be recognized over the next 12 months as the underlying forecasted transactions occur. Gains and losses on foreign currency derivatives reported in other deductions, net reflect hedges of balance sheet exposures that do not receive deferral accounting. Amounts included in earnings and other comprehensive income follow:  

Regardless of whether derivatives receive deferral accounting, the Company expects hedging gains or losses to be essentially offset by losses or gains on the related underlying exposures. The amounts ultimately recognized will differ from those presented above for open positions, which remain subject to ongoing market price fluctuations until settlement. Derivatives receiving deferral accounting are highly effective and no amounts were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness. Hedge ineffectiveness was immaterial in 2013, 2012 and 2011. 
    
  Fair Value Measurement 
  As of September 30, 2013, the fair value of commodity contracts and foreign currency contracts was reported in other current assets and accrued expenses.   No   collateral was posted with counterparties and   none   was held by the Company at year end. The maximum collateral that could have been required was   $14  . The estimated fair value of long-term debt was   $4,727   and   $5,088  , respectively, as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, which exceeded the carrying value by   $405   and   $741  , respectively. Valuations of derivative contract positions as of September 30 follow: 

26 

(8)  SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LINES OF CREDIT 
    
  Short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt are summarized as follows: 

The Company periodically issues commercial paper as a source of short-term financing. To support short-term borrowing, the Company maintains, but has not drawn on, a   $2.75 billion   four-year revolving backup credit facility which expires in December 2014. The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change in credit ratings or material adverse changes. There were no borrowings against U.S. lines of credit in the last three years. 
      
  (9)  LONG-TERM DEBT 
    
  Long-term debt is summarized as follows: 

Long-term debt maturing during each of the four years after 2014 is   $520  ,   $289  ,   $250   and   $250  , respectively. Total interest paid related to short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately   $226  ,   $234   and   $239   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
    
  The Company maintains a universal shelf registration statement on file with the SEC under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts or share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of sale. 
    27 

(10)  RETIREMENT PLANS 
    
  Retirement plans expense includes the following components:  

For defined contribution plans, the Company's obligation is to make cash contributions based on plan requirements, which are expensed as incurred. The Company has two small businesses that participate in multiemployer pension plans. Such participation is insignificant individually and in total. Cash contributed was inconsequential in all years. The Company could potentially incur immaterial liabilities upon withdrawal from these plans, although it has no intention to do so. Additionally, as with participation in any multiemployer plan, there is a theoretical but remote possibility the Company could incur material liabilities should all other participating employers be unable to fund their obligations.  
    
  Reconciliations of the actuarial present value of the projected benefit obligations and of the fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans follow: 

28 

Approximately   $171   of the   $1,214   of pretax losses deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income at September 30, 2013, will be amortized to expense in 2014. As of September 30, 2013, retirement plans in total were underfunded by   $121  , which includes   $368   of unfunded plans. 
    
  As of the plans' September 30, 2013 and 2012 measurement dates, the total accumulated benefit obligation was     $4,782   and   $5,010  , respectively. Also, as of the plans' respective measurement dates, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for retirement plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets were   $978  ,   $887   and   $464  , respectively, for 2013, and   $4,763  ,   $4,504   and   $3,947  , respectively, for 2012.   
    
  Future benefit payments by U.S. plans are estimated to be   $189   in 2014,   $198   in 2015,   $208   in 2016,   $217   in 2017,   $226   in 2018 and   $1,256   in total over the five years 2019 through 2023. Based on foreign currency exchange rates as of September 30, 2013, future benefit payments by non-U.S. plans are estimated to be   $51   in 2014,   $51   in 2015,   $55   in 2016,   $56   in 2017,   $58   in 2018 and   $341   in total over the five years 2019 through 2023. The Company expects to contribute approximately   $145   to its retirement plans in 2014.   
    
  The weighted-average assumptions used in the valuation of pension benefits were as follows: 

The discount rate for the U.S. retirement plans was   4.75 percent   as of September 30, 2013. An actuarially determined, company-specific yield curve is used to determine the discount rate. The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined by reviewing the investment returns of the plans for the past 10 years plus longer-term historical returns of an asset mix approximating the Company's asset allocation targets, and periodically comparing these returns to expectations of investment advisors and actuaries to determine whether long-term future returns are expected to differ significantly from the past. Defined benefit pension plan expense for 2014 is expected to be approximately   $155  , versus   $228   in 2013.   
    
  The Company's asset allocations at September 30, 2013 and 2012, and weighted-average target allocations are  
  as follows: 

The primary objective for the investment of plan assets is to secure participant retirement benefits while earning a reasonable rate of return. Plan assets are invested consistent with the provisions of the prudence and diversification rules of ERISA and with a long-term investment horizon. The Company continuously monitors the value of assets by class and routinely rebalances to remain within target allocations. The strategy for equity assets is to minimize concentrations of risk by investing primarily in companies in a diversified mix of industries worldwide, while targeting neutrality in exposure to market capitalization levels, growth versus value profile, global versus regional markets, fund types and fund managers. The approach for bonds emphasizes investment-grade corporate and government debt with maturities matching a portion of the longer duration pension liabilities. The bonds strategy also includes a  
    29 

high yield element which is generally shorter in duration. A small portion of U.S. plan assets is allocated to private equity partnerships and real asset fund investments for diversification, providing opportunities for above market returns. Leveraging techniques are not used and the use of derivatives in any fund is limited and inconsequential.  
    
  The fair values of defined benefit plan assets as of September 30, organized by asset class and by the fair value hierarchy of ASC 820 as outlined in Note 1, follow: 

Asset Classes 
  U.S. Equities reflects companies domiciled in the U.S., including multinational companies. International Equities is comprised of companies domiciled in developed nations outside the U.S. Emerging Market Equities is comprised of companies domiciled in portions of Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Corporate Bonds represents investment-grade debt of issuers primarily from the U.S. Government Bonds includes investment-grade instruments issued by federal, state and local governments, primarily in the U.S. High Yield Bonds includes noninvestment-grade debt from a diverse group of developed market issuers. Other includes cash, interests in mixed asset funds investing in commodities, natural resources, agriculture and exchange-traded real estate funds, life insurance contracts (U.S.), and shares in certain general investment funds of financial institutions or insurance arrangements (non-U.S.) that typically ensure no market losses or provide for a small minimum return guarantee.   
    
  Fair Value Hierarchy Categories 
  Valuations of Level 1 assets for all classes are based on quoted closing market prices from the principal exchanges where the individual securities are traded. Cash is valued at cost, which approximates fair value. Equity securities categorized as Level 2 assets are primarily nonexchange-traded commingled or collective funds where the underlying securities have observable prices available from active markets. Valuation is based on the net asset value of fund units held as derived from the fair value of the underlying assets. Debt securities categorized as Level 2 assets are generally valued based on independent broker/dealer bids or by comparison to other debt securities having similar durations, yields and credit ratings. Other Level 2 assets are valued based on a net asset value of fund units held, which is derived from either market-observed pricing for the underlying assets or broker/dealer quotation. U.S. equity securities classified as Level 3 are fund investments in private companies. Valuation techniques and inputs for these assets include discounted cash flow analysis, earnings multiple approaches, recent transactions, transferability restrictions, prevailing discount rates, volatilities, credit ratings and other factors. In the Other class, interests in mixed assets funds are Level 2, and U.S. life insurance contracts and non-U.S. general fund investments and insurance arrangements are Level 3.  
    30 

A reconciliation of the change in value for Level 3 assets follows: 

(11)  POSTRETIREMENT PLANS 
    
  The Company sponsors unfunded postretirement benefit plans (primarily health care) for certain U.S. retirees and their dependents. The components of net postretirement benefits expense for the years ended September 30 follow: 

Reconciliations of the actuarial present value of accumulated postretirement benefit obligations follow: 

As of September 30, 2013 there were   $169   of deferred actuarial gains in accumulated other comprehensive income, of which approximately   $21   will be amortized into earnings in 2014. The assumed discount rates used in measuring the benefit obligations as of September 30, 2013, 2012 and 2011, were   4.00 percent  ,   3.25 percent   and   4.25 percent  , respectively. The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2014 is   7.0 percent  , declining to   5.0 percent   in   2018  , and for 2013 was   7.5 percent  , declining to   5.0 percent   in   2018  . A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would increase or decrease postretirement expense and the benefit obligation by inconsequential amounts  .   The Company estimates that future health care benefit payments will be   $26   in 2014,   $26   in 2015,   $25   in 2016,   $25   in 2017,   $25   in 2018 and   $113   in total over the five years 2019 through 2023. 
    
    (12)  CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS 
    
  Emerson is a party to a number of pending legal proceedings and claims, including those involving general and product liability and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are based on developments to date; management's estimates of the outcomes of these matters; the Company's experience in contesting, litigating and settling similar matters; and any related insurance coverage. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, the Company historically has been successful in defending itself against claims and suits that have been brought against it, and will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. While the Company believes a material  
    31 

adverse impact is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future development could have a material adverse impact on the Company. 
    
  The Company enters into certain indemnification agreements in the ordinary course of business in which the indemnified party is held harmless and is reimbursed for losses incurred from claims by third parties, usually up to a prespecified limit. In connection with divestitures of certain assets or businesses, the Company often provides indemnities to the buyer with respect to certain matters including, as examples, environmental or unidentified tax liabilities related to periods prior to the disposition. Because of the uncertain nature of the indemnities, the maximum liability cannot be quantified. As such, contingent liabilities are recorded when they are both probable and reasonably estimable. Historically, payments under indemnity arrangements have been inconsequential. 
    
  On October 22, 2012, Invensys Systems, Inc. filed a suit for patent infringement against the Company and its wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, Micro Motion, Inc., in the Eastern District of Texas captioned   Invensys Systems, Inc. v. Emerson Electric Co. and Micro Motion, Inc., USA  . The complaint alleges infringement on Invensys patents by Micro Motion's Coriolis flowmeter "Enhanced Core Processors." The Invensys suit seeks unspecified damages for past infringement and an injunction preventing the Company and Micro Motion from engaging in future infringement. It is too early in the litigation to assess any potential financial impact. The Company and Micro Motion believe that the Invensys claims are without merit and that they have strong defenses to the claims, and intend to aggressively defend the suit. 
    
  At September 30, 2013, there were   no   known contingent liabilities (including guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes will be material in relation to the Company's financial statements, nor were there any material commitments outside the normal course of business. 
    
    (13)  INCOME TAXES 
    
  Pretax earnings from continuing operations consist of the following: 

The principal components of income tax expense follow: 

32 

Reconciliations of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate to the Company's effective tax rate follow: 

Non-U.S. tax holidays reduce tax rates in certain foreign jurisdictions and are expected to expire over the next   four years  .  
    
  Following are reconciliations of the beginning and ending balances of unrecognized tax benefits before recoverability of cross-jurisdictional tax credits (federal, state and non-U.S.) and temporary differences. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is not expected to significantly increase or decrease within the next   12 months  . 

If none of the unrecognized tax benefits shown is ultimately paid, the tax provision and the calculation of the effective tax rate would be favorably impacted by   $90  . The Company accrues interest and penalties related to income taxes in income tax expense. Total interest and penalties recognized were   $(6)  ,   $(1)   and   $(3)   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of September 30, 2013 and 2012, total accrued interest and penalties were   $27   and   $35  , respectively.   
    
  The United States is the major jurisdiction for which the Company files income tax returns. Examinations by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service are substantially complete through 2009. The status of state and non-U.S. tax examinations varies by the numerous legal entities and jurisdictions in which the Company operates. 
    
    33 

The principal items that gave rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities follow: 

At September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, current deferred tax assets, net were   $354   and   $377  , and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, net were   $741   and   $487  . Total income taxes paid were approximately   $1,270  ,   $1,300   and   $1,030   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Approximately half of the   $231   of net operating losses and tax credits can be carried forward indefinitely, while the remainder expire over varying periods.  
      
  (14)  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
    
  The Company's stock-based compensation plans include stock options, performance shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units. Although the Company has discretion, shares distributed under these plans are issued from treasury stock.   
    
  Stock Options 
  The Company's stock option plans permit key officers and employees to purchase common stock at specified prices. Awards are granted at   100 percent   of the closing market price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. Awards made prior to 2011 were granted at   100 percent   of the average of the high and low market prices on the date of grant. Options generally vest   one-third   in each of the three years subsequent to grant and expire   10 years   from the date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized ratably over the vesting period based on the number of options expected to vest. As of September 30, 2013,   19.1 million   options were available for grant under the plans.   
    
    34 

Changes in shares subject to option during the year ended September 30, 2013 follow: 

The weighted-average grant date fair value per option was   $10.12  ,   $7.53   and   $11.00   for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Cash received for option exercises was   $104   in 2013,   $42   in 2012 and   $65   in 2011. The total intrinsic value of options exercised was   $66  ,   $38   and   $49   in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and the actual tax benefit realized by the Company from tax deductions related to option exercises was   $7  ,   $11   and   $16  , respectively. 
    
  The grant date fair value of options is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The weighted-average assumptions used in valuations for 2013, 2012 and 2011 follow: risk-free interest rate, based on U.S. Treasury yields,   1.2 percent  ,   1.3 percent   and   1.9 percent  ; dividend yield,   3.2 percent  ,   3.7 percent   and   2.6 percent  ; and expected volatility, based on historical volatility,   28 percent  ,   27 percent   and   25 percent  . The expected life of each option awarded is 7 years based on historical experience and expected future exercise patterns. 
    
  Performance Shares, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units  
  The Company's incentive shares plans include performance shares awards which distribute the value of common stock to key management employees subject to certain operating performance conditions and other restrictions. Distribution is primarily in shares of common stock and partially in cash. Compensation expense for performance shares is recognized over the service period based on the number of shares ultimately expected to be earned. Performance shares awards are accounted for as liabilities in accordance with ASC 718,   Compensation - Stock Compensation  , with compensation expense adjusted at the end of each reporting period to reflect the change in fair value of the awards.   
    
  As of September 30, 2013,   5,201,866   performance shares awarded primarily in 2010 were outstanding and contingent on the Company achieving its performance objectives and the provision of service by the employees. The objectives for these shares were met at the   93 percent   level at the end of 2013, or   4,837,739   shares. Of these,   2,902,647   shares will be distributed in early 2014 while   1,935,092   shares remain subject to employees providing one additional year of service. Additionally,   5,118,500   performance shares awarded in 2013 are outstanding and contingent on the Company achieving its performance objectives through 2016 and the provision of service by the employees. As a result of the Company achieving its performance objectives at the   96 percent   level at the end of 2010 for performance shares awarded primarily in 2007, and employees providing an additional year of service, rights to receive   4,777,248    common shares vested and were distributed to participants in 2011 as follows:   2,841,534   issued as shares,   1,661,045   withheld for income taxes and the value of   274,669   paid in cash.  
    
  Incentive shares plans also include restricted stock awards, which involve distribution of common stock to key management employees subject to cliff vesting at the end of service periods ranging from   three   to   ten years  . The fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the average of the high and low market prices of the Company's common stock on the date of grant, with compensation expense recognized ratably over the applicable service period. In 2013,   390,000   shares of restricted stock vested as a result of participants fulfilling the applicable service requirements. Consequently,   231,983   shares were issued while   158,017   shares were withheld for income taxes in accordance with minimum withholding requirements. As of September 30, 2013, there were   1,275,000   shares of unvested restricted stock outstanding. 
    
    35 

Changes in shares outstanding but not yet earned under the incentive shares plans during the year ended  
  September 30, 2013 follow: 

The total fair value of shares vested under incentive shares plans was   $19  ,   $15   and   $276  , respectively, in 2013, 2012 and 2011, of which   $8  ,   $6   and   $113  , respectively, was paid in cash, primarily for tax withholding. As of September 30, 2013,   5.0 million   shares remained available for award under incentive shares plans.   
    
  Total compensation expense for stock options and incentive shares was   $221  ,   $100   and   $121  , for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase from 2012 to 2013 reflects overlap of two performance shares programs during the year (2010 awards for performance through 2013 and 2013 awards for performance through 2016) and a higher stock price in the current year. The decrease from 2011 to 2012 reflects a stock option award in 2011 and no performance shares program overlap in 2012.  Income tax benefits recognized in the income statement for these compensation arrangements during 2013, 2012 and 2011 were   $68  ,   $28   and   $32  , respectively. As of September 30, 2013, there was   $316   of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested shares awarded under these plans, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   2.7   years.   
    
  In addition to the employee stock option and incentive shares plans, in 2013 the Company awarded   18,864   shares of restricted stock and   4,398   restricted stock units under the restricted stock plan for nonmanagement directors. As of September 30, 2013,   269,750   shares remained available for issuance under this plan. 
    
    (15) COMMON AND PREFERRED STOCK 
    
  At September 30, 2013,   46 million   shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the Company's  
  stock-based compensation plans. During 2013,   20.3 million   common shares were repurchased and   2.9 million   treasury shares were reissued. 
    
  At September 30, 2013 and 2012, the Company had   5.4 million   shares of   $2.50   par value preferred stock authorized, with   none   issued. 
    
    (16)  BUSINESS SEGMENTS INFORMATION 
    
  The Company designs and supplies products and technology and delivers engineering services in a wide range of industrial, commercial and consumer end markets around the world. The business segments of the Company are organized primarily by the nature of the products and services they sell.  
    
  The   Process Management   segment provides systems and software, measurement and analytical instrumentation, valves, actuators and regulators, and services and solutions, including digital plant architecture that allows communication of devices with centralized systems, to provide precision measurement, control, monitoring and asset optimization for plants that produce power or process fluids or items such as petroleum, chemicals, food and beverages, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, and municipal water supplies. The   Industrial Automation   segment provides low, medium and high voltage alternators and other power generation equipment, commercial and industrial motors and drives, power transmission and materials handling equipment, materials joining and precision cleaning products, fluid power and control mechanisms, and electrical distribution equipment which are used in a wide variety of manufacturing operations to provide integrated manufacturing solutions to customers. The   Network Power   segment designs, manufactures, installs and maintains power systems for telecommunications networks, data centers and other critical applications, including power conditioning and uninterruptible AC and DC power supplies, precision cooling systems, electrical switching equipment, integrated data center infrastructure monitoring, management systems, and embedded power supplies and computing systems. The   Climate Technologies   segment supplies compressors, temperature sensors and controls, thermostats, flow controls and remote monitoring technology and services to all elements of the climate control industry, including residential heating and  
    36 

cooling, commercial air conditioning, commercial and industrial refrigeration, and marine controls. The   Commercial   Residential Solutions   segment provides tools for professionals and homeowners, home and commercial storage systems, and appliance solutions. The principal distribution method for each segment is direct sales forces, although the Company also uses independent sales representatives and distributors. Due to its global presence, certain of the Company's international operations are subject to risks such as significant currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on the movement of funds and potential nationalization of operations.  
    
  The primary income measure used for assessing segment performance and making operating decisions is earnings before interest and income taxes. Intersegment selling prices approximate market prices. Accounting method differences between segment reporting and the consolidated financial statements are primarily management fees allocated to segments based on a percentage of sales and the accounting for pension and other retirement plans. Corporate and other includes goodwill impairment charges when applicable. Corporate assets are primarily comprised of cash and equivalents, investments and certain fixed assets. Summarized below is information about the Company's operations by business segment and by geography (also see Notes 3 through 6).  
    
  Business Segments 

(a)  Differences in corporate and other primarily reflect changes in incentive stock compensation expense, which increased   $121   in 2013 due to changes in the Company's stock price and the overlap of two incentive stock compensation programs (see Note 14), and differences in goodwill and related charges. 
    
  (b)  2013 includes goodwill impairment charges of   $528   related to the Network Power segment; 2012 includes a goodwill impairment charge of   $592     related to the Network Power segment; 2011 includes a goodwill impairment charge of   $19   related to the Industrial Automation segment (see Note 6).  

37 

Geographic Information 

Sales in the U.S. were   $10,000  ,   $10,036   and   $9,900   for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, while Asia includes sales in China of   $3,122  ,   $3,012   and   $3,079  , respectively. U.S.-located fixed assets were   $1,952  ,   $1,900   and   $1,853  .   

(17)  OTHER FINANCIAL DATA 
    
  Items reported in earnings during the years ended September 30 include the following: 

The Company leases certain facilities, transportation and office equipment, and various other items under operating lease agreements. Minimum annual rentals under noncancelable long-term leases, exclusive of maintenance, taxes, insurance and other operating costs, will approximate   $270   in 2014,   $196   in 2015,   $140   in 2016,   $87   in 2017 and   $51   in 2018. 
    
  At September 30, 2013, other current assets includes   $408   of current assets of embedded computing and power classified as held-for-sale, while other assets includes   $438   of pension assets and   $190   of noncurrent embedded computing and power assets. 
    
  Items reported in accrued expenses include the following: 

Other liabilities are summarized as follows: 

38 

Other operating cash flow is comprised of the following: 

(18)  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 

Earnings per share are computed independently each period; as a result, the quarterly amounts may not sum to the calculated annual figure. Results include discontinued operations; see Note 3.  
    
  Earnings from continuing operations, net earnings and the related per share amounts include goodwill impairment and income tax charges totaling   $508   or   $0.70   per share in the third quarter of 2013, goodwill impairment and income tax charges totaling   $58   or   $0.08   per share in the fourth quarter of 2013 and a goodwill impairment charge of   $528   or   $0.72   per share in the fourth quarter of 2012.  
    
  Emerson Electric Co. common stock (symbol EMR) is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. 
    39 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
  Emerson Electric Co.: 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2013. We also have audited Emerson Electric Co.'s internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Emerson Electric Co.'s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
    
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Emerson Electric Co. and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2013, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, Emerson Electric Co. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 

/s/ KPMG LLP 
  St. Louis, Missouri 
  November 19, 2013 

40 

Safe Harbor Statement 
    
  This Annual Report contains various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning Emerson's operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, are subject to risk and uncertainties, and Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson provides the following cautionary statement identifying important economic, political and technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related assumptions. 
    
  Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: (1) current and future business environment, including interest rates, currency exchange rates and capital and consumer spending; (2) competitive factors and competitor responses to Emerson initiatives; (3) development and market introduction of anticipated new products; (4) ability to defend or protect our intellectual property rights; (5) favorable environment for acquisitions, domestic and foreign, including regulatory requirements and market values of candidates; (6) integration of acquisitions; (7) favorable access to capital markets; (8) availability of raw materials and purchased components; (9) stability of governments and business conditions in foreign countries, including emerging economies, which could result in nationalization of facilities or disruption of operations; (10) potential volatility of the end markets served; (11) outcome of pending and future litigation, including environmental compliance; (12) U.S. and foreign government laws and regulations, including taxes and restrictions; (13) penetration of emerging economies; (14) execution of cost-reduction efforts; and (15) ability to complete the embedded computing and power sale transaction. 
    
    41 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 4
 exhibit21fy13.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21 FY13 

Exhibit 21 
    
  Subsidiaries and Affiliates of Emerson Electric Co. 
  September 30, 2013 

LEGAL NAME 

JURISDICTION OF     INCORPORATION 
      Artesyn Technologies, Inc. 
    Florida 
        
    Artesyn North America, Inc. 
    Delaware 

AIH, Inc. 
    Delaware 

00269496 Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Astec America LLC 
    Delaware 

Astec Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing and Power (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Astec International Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Astec Advanced Power Systems (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Astec Advanced Power Systems (Penang) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Astec Agencies Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Astec Custom Power (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Astec Custom Power (Philippines) Inc. 
    Philippines 

Astec Custom Power (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Astec Electronics Company Limited 
    China 

Astec Electronics (Luoding) Company Ltd. 
    China 

Astec Power Supply (Shenzhen) Company Limited 
    China 

Astec Power Inc. 
    BVI 

Astec Power Philippines, Inc. 
    Philippines 

Embedded Computing   Power (India) Private Limited 
    India 

Embedded Computing   Power Japan KK 
    Japan 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Power (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 
    Vietnam 

Artesyn Cayman Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 

Artesyn Cayman LP 
    Cayman Islands 

Artesyn International Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 

Artesyn Ireland Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 

Artesyn Technologies Asia-Pacific Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 

Artesyn Netherlands B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Artesyn Holding GmbH 
    Austria 

Artesyn Austria GmbH 
    Austria 

Artesyn Austria GmbH   Co. KG 
    Austria 

Artesyn Hungary Elektronikai Kft. 
    Hungary 

Artesyn Germany GmbH 
    Germany 

Artesyn Elektronische Gerate Beteiligungs-und Verwaltungs-GmbH 
    Germany 

1 

Artesyn GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing   Power Sarl 
    France 

Emerson Network  Power - Embedded Computing GmbH 
    Germany 

Stourbridge Holdings (U.K.) Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Mirroware Manufacturing Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Astec Europe Limited 
    United Kingdom 
        
    Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing, Inc. 
    Wisconsin 
      Avocent Corporation 
    Delaware 
        
    Avocent Huntsville Corp. 
    Alabama 

Aperture International Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Avocent do Brasil Informatica Ltda 
    Brazil 

Avocent Fremont Corp. 
    California 

Avocent China Technology Limited 
    China 

Avocent International Holdings Limited 
    Ireland 

Avocent Belgium Limited BVBA/SPRL 
    Belgium 

Avocent Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Avocent Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Avocent (China) Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Avocent Taiwan Co., Ltd. 
    Taiwan 

Avocent International Limited 
    Ireland 

Avocent Deutschland GmbH 
    Germany 

Avocent Italia Srl 
    Italy 

Avocent Japan KK 
    Japan 

Avocent Netherlands B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Avocent Spain S.L. 
    Spain 

Avocent Sweden AB 
    Sweden 
        
    Avocent Redmond Corp. 
    Washington 

Avocent Texas Corp. 
    Texas 
      Avtron LoadBank, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Avtron LoadBank Worldwide Co., Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

N.J. Froment   Co. Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Branson Ultrasonic S.A. 
    Switzerland 
      Bristol, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      California Emerson LLC 
    Delaware 
      CHC Holding Corporation 
    Delaware 
        
    Chloride Power Electronics Incorporated 
    Delaware 

U P Systems, Incorporated 
    Delaware 
      ClosetMaid Corporation 
    Florida 
        
    Clairson, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    ClosetMaid de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    ClosetMaid North America, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Computational Systems, Incorporated 
    Tennessee 
        
    CSI Technology, Inc. 
    Delaware 

2 

Control Products, Inc. 
    Minnesota 
      Control Techniques Iberia S.A. 
    Spain 
      Daniel Industries, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Emerson Process Management Valve Automation, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Bettis Canada Ltd. 
    Canada 

Bettis Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Bettis UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Prime Actuator Control Systems Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Prime Actuator Control Systems UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Valve Actuation LLC 
    Delaware 

Hytork Controls, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Daniel Automation Company 
    Delaware 
        
    Daniel Industrial, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Daniel En-Fab Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Daniel International Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Daniel Europe Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Daniel Industries Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Spectra-Tek UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Daniel Measurement Solutions Pvt. Ltd. 
    India 

Spectra-Tek International Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Greenfield (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
        
    Daniel Measurement and Control, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Daniel Industries Canada Inc. 
    Canada 

Metco Services Venezuela, C.A. 
    Venezuela 
        
    Danmasa S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Hytork International Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

Hytork Controls, Inc. 
    Florida 

Hytork Controls Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Hytork LLC 
    Delaware 

Hytork Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      EECO, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Apple JV Holding Corp. 
    Delaware 

EGS Electrical Group LLC 
    Delaware 

Appleton Electric LLC 
    Delaware 

Appleton Electric, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Appleton Holding Corp. 
    Delaware 

EGS Electrical Group Canada Ltd. 
    Ontario 

Easy Heat Ltd. 
    Ontario 

EGS Participacoes Ltda 
    Brazil 

Nutsteel Ind stria Metal rgica Ltda 
    Brazil 

Easy Heat, Inc. 
    Delaware 

EGS Comercializadora Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

3 

EGS Electrical Group Romania Srl 
    Romania 

EGS Holding Sarl 
    France 

ATX S.A. 
    France 

Easy Heat Europe SAS 
    France 

EGS Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

EGS Private Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Emerson Hazardous Electrical Equipment (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

GSEG LLC 
    Delaware 

O-Z Gedney Company LLC 
    Delaware 
        
    Electrical Reliability Services, Inc. 
    California 
        
    Emerson Climate Technologies, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Climate Technologies Retail Solutions, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Climate Services, LLC 
    Delaware 

Copeland Access +, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Copeland Corporation LLC 
    Delaware 

Copeland de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emerson Climate Technologies (India) Limited 
    India 

Copeland Redevelopment Corporation 
    Missouri 

CR Compressors LLC 
    Delaware 

Scroll Compressors LLC 
    Delaware 

Scroll Mexico LLC 
    Delaware 
        
    Emerson Electric do Brasil Ltda 
    Brazil 
        
    Emerson Electric (U.S.) Holding Corporation 
    Delaware 

Automatic Switch Company 
    Delaware 

ASC Investments, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Asco Controls AG 
    Switzerland 

Asco Controls B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Asco Mideast B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Asco Magnesszelep Kft. 
    Hungary 

Asco/Joucomatic s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 

Asco Joucomatic ZA B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Asco Numatics Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 

ASCO/NUMATICS GmbH 
    Switzerland 

Ascomation Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Asco Joucomatic Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Asco Numatics Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Asco Valve Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Ascomation (NZ) Ltd. 
    New Zealand 

Asco Numatics (NZ) Limited 
    New Zealand 

Numatics Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Sirai Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Asco AB 
    Sweden 

ASCO Japan Co., Ltd. 
    Japan 

4 

Ascomatica S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Asco Services, Inc. 
    New Jersey 

ASCO Switch Enterprises LLC 
    Delaware 

ASCO Numatics (India) Private Limited 
    India 

ASCO Power Technologies, L.P. 
    Delaware 

ASCO Valve Enterprises LLC 
    Delaware 

ASCO Valve, Inc. 
    Delaware 

ASCO Controls, L.P. 
    Delaware 

ASCO Valve Manufacturing, LLC 
    Delaware 

Ascotech, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Ascoval Industria e Commercio Ltda 
    Brazil 

Branson Ultrasonics Corporation 
    Delaware 

Branson Korea Co., Ltd. 
    Korea 

Branson Ultrasonidos S.A.E. 
    Spain 

Branson Ultrasons SAS 
    France 

El-O-Matic GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Climate Technologies GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Climate Technologies Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Climate Technologies Refrigeration S.A. 
    Belgium 

Emerson Climate Technologies S.A. 
    Spain 

Emerson Climate Technologies Sarl 
    France 

Emerson Climate Technologies Srl 
    Italy 

Emerson Deutschland Holding GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Dietzenbach GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Electric Overseas Finance Corp. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Process Management GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Process Management GmbH   Co. OHG 
    Germany 

epro GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Process Management Ltda 
    Brazil 

Emerson Retail Services Europe GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Technologies Verwaltungs GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Technologies GmbH   Co. OHG 
    Germany 

Emersub LXXXIV, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emersub LXXXVI, Inc. 
    Delaware 

EMR Holdings (France) SAS 
    France 

Asco Joucomatic S.A. 
    France 

Asco Numatics GmbH 
    Germany 

Fluidocontrol S.A. 
    Spain 

Joucomatic S.A. 
    Belgium 

Avocent France SAS 
    France 

Company Financiere de Chausey, S.A. 
    France 

Emerson Network Power Energy Systems, SA 
    France 

Francel SAS 
    France 

5 

Leroy-Somer S.A. 
    France 

Bertrand Polico SAS 
    France 

Constructions Electriques de Beaucourt SAS 
    France 

ESO SAS 
    France 

ESO CENTRE EST Sarl 
    France 

ESO CENTRE OUEST Sarl 
    France 

ESO Ile de France Sarl 
    France 

ESO OUEST Sarl 
    France 

ESO NORD EST Sarl 
    France 

ESO NORMANDIE Sarl 
    France 

ESO SUD EST Sarl 
    France 

ESO SUD OUEST Sarl 
    France 

Etablissements Trepeau SAS 
    France 

Girard Transmissions SAS 
    France 

IMI Elektromos Gepeket Gyarto Kft 
    Hungary 

La Francaise de Manutention SAS 
    France 

Leroy-Somer Denmark A/S 
    Denmark 

Leroy Somer Elektomekanik Sistemler Ticaret Ltd. STI 
    Turkey 

Leroy-Somer Iberica S.A. 
    Spain 

Teilsa Servicios, S.L. 
    Spain 

Leroy-Somer Ltd. 
    Greece 

Leroy-Somer Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Leroy Somer Marbaise GmbH 
    Germany 

Leroy-Somer B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Leroy-Somer Norden AB 
    Sweden 

Leroy-Somer NV 
    Belgium 

ESO Belgium S.A. 
    Belgium 

Leroy Somer (Pty) Ltd. (South Africa) 
    South Africa 

Leroy-Somer (Pty) Ltd. 
    Australia 

Leroy-Somer S. E. A. Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Leroy-Somer SA 
    Switzerland 

Leroy-Somer SpA 
    Italy 

E.M.S. Elettro Multi Service Srl 
    Italy 

M.L.S. Holice, spol s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 

MLS Industries Inc. 
    Delaware 

Yorba Linda International, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Moteurs Leroy-Somer 
    France 

Societe Anonyme de Mecanique et D outillage du Vivarais SA 
    France 

Ridgid France SAS 
    France 

Marbaise Hanlo LS GmbH 
    Germany 

Ridge Tool GmbH 
    Germany 

Ridge Tool GmbH   Co. OHG 
    Germany 

Rosemount Inc. 
    Minnesota 

6 

Control Techniques - Americas, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Control Techniques - Americas LLC 
    Delaware 

Fincor Holding, LLC 
    Delaware 

Dieterich Standard, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Process Management AB 
    Sweden 

Emerson Process Management A/S (Denmark) 
    Denmark 

Emerson Process Management AS 
    Norway 

Emerson Process Management Holding AG 
    Switzerland 

Emerson Process Management AG 
    Switzerland 

Emerson LLC 
    Azerbaijan 

Emerson LLP 
    Kazakhstan 

Emerson Process Management Kft. 
    Hungary 

Emerson Process Management Romania Srl 
    Romania 

Emerson Process Management sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 

Emerson Process Management UAB 
    Lithuania 

Emerson Process Management Ticaret Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 

Emerson Process Management s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 

Emerson Process Management s.r.o. 
    Slovakia 

Emerson TOV 
    Ukraine 

Emerson Process Management Power and Water Solutions Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 

Emerson Process Management Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Emerson Process Management Manufacturing (M) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Emerson Process Management Valve Automation (M) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Emerson Process Management (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
    India 

Emerson Process Management Korea Ltd. 
    Korea 

Emerson Process Management Oy 
    Finland 

Emerson Process Management, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emerson Process Management, S.L. 
    Spain 

P I Components Corp. 
    Texas 

Rosemount Analytical Inc. 
    Delaware 

Rosemount China Inc. 
    Minnesota 

Rosemount Nuclear Instruments, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Xomox Uruguaya S.A. 
    Uruguay 
        
    Emerson Network Power Solutions, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Emerson Power Transmission Corporation 
    Delaware 

Emerson Chain, Inc. 
    Delaware 

McGill Manufacturing Company, Inc. 
    Indiana 

Rollway Bearing N.V. 
    Belgium 
        
    Liebert Corporation 
    Ohio 

Alber Corp. 
    Florida 

Atlas Asia Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Emerson Network Power Software (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Network Power Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

7 

Atlas Air Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Emerson Network Power DHC B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Emerson Network Power do Brasil Ltda 
    Brazil 

Artesyn do Brasil Comercio de Produtos de Conversao de Energia Ltda 
    Brazil 

Emerson Network Power (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Emerson Network Power (India) Private Limited 
    India 

Emerson Process Management Chennai Limited 
    India 

Leroy Somer India Private Limited 
    India 

Emerson Network Power, Liebert Services, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Network Power (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Emerson Network Power (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Kn rr Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Spectra Systems Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Emerson Network Power Surge Protection, Inc. 
    New York 

Emerson Network Power (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 
    Taiwan 

Emerson Network Power (Thailand) Co. Ltd. 
    Thailand 

Liebert Field Services, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Liebert North America, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Liebert Property Holdings, L.L.C. 
    Delaware 
        
    Micro Motion, Inc. 
    Colorado 
        
    Ridge Tool Company 
    Ohio 

Ridge Tool (Australia) Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Ridge Tool Manufacturing Company 
    Delaware 

Ridge Tool Pattern Company 
    Delaware 

RIDGID, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Ridgid Italia Srl 
    Italy 

Ridgid Online, Inc. 
    Ohio 

Ridgid Werkzeuge AG 
    Switzerland 
        
    Therm-O-Disc, Incorporated 
    Ohio 

Componentes Avanzados de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Controles de Temperatura S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      E.G.P. Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Emermex S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Emerson Arabia, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Emerson Process Management Arabia Limited 
    Saudi Arabia 
        
    Emersub 4 LLC 
    Delaware 
      Emerson Climate Technologies Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Emerson Electric (Asia) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
        
    Branson Ultrasonics (Asia Pacific) Co. Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 
        
    Emerson Electric (South Asia) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
        
    Emerson (Philippines) Corporation 
    Philippines 
        
    Emerson Technology Service (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      Emerson Electric II, C.A. 
    Venezuela 

8 

Emerson Electric de Colombia Ltda 
    Colombia 
      Emerson Electric International, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emerson Electric Ireland Limited 
    Bermuda 
        
    Emersub Treasury Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Emerson Electric (Mauritius) Ltd. 
    Mauritius 
        
    Emerson Electric Co. (India) Private Ltd. 
    India 
        
    Westinghouse Electric Pvt. Limited 
    Mauritius 

Emerson Process Management Power   Water Solutions India Private Limited 
    India 
      Emerson Electric Nederland B.V. 
    Netherlands 
        
    Aegir Norge Holding AS 
    Norway 

Roxar AS 
    Norway 

Emerson Process Management Nigeria Limited 
    Nigeria 

Energy Scitech Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

PolyOil Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

Roxar do Brasil Ltda 
    Brazil 

Roxar Flow Measurement AS 
    Norway 

Roxar Flow Measurement Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

Roxar Flow Measurement Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Roxar Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

Roxar Maximum Reservoir Performance WLL 
    Bahrain 

Roxar Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Roxar de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Roxar de Venezuela C.A. 
    Venezuela 

Roxar Saudi Company 
    Saudi Arabia 

Roxar Services AS 
    Norway 

Roxar Services OOO 
    Russia 

Roxar Technologies AS 
    Norway 

Roxar Software Solutions AS 
    Norway 

Roxar Strategic Staffing S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Roxar Vietnam Company Ltd. 
    Vietnam 
        
    ALCO CONTROLS, spol s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
        
    Branson Ultrasonics B.V. 
    Netherlands 
        
    Beckman Industrial B.V. 
    Netherlands 
        
    Damcos Holding A/S 
    Denmark 

Damcos A/S 
    Denmark 

Emerson Process Management Marine Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. 
    Korea 

Emerson Process Management Marine Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
        
    El-O-Matic B.V. 
    Netherlands 

El-O-Matic Valve Actuators (F.E.) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Emerson Process Management (South Africa) (Proprietary) Ltd. 
    South Africa 
        
    Electrische Apparatenfabriek Capax B.V. 
    Netherlands 
        
    EMERSON a.s. 
    Slovakia 
        
    Emerson LLC 
    Russia 
        
    Emerson Oradea S.R.L. 
    Romania 

9 

Emerson Srl 
    Romania 
        
    EMERSON CLIMATE TECHNOLOGIES, s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
        
    Emerson Electric spol s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
        
    Emerson Network Power Pakistan (Private) Limited 
    Pakistan 
        
    Emerson Network Power (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 
    Vietnam 
        
    Emerson Process Management B.V. 
    Netherlands 
        
    Emerson Process Management (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 
    Vietnam 
        
    EMRSN HLDG B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Emerson Network Power B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Emerson Process Management Flow B.V. 
    Netherlands 
        
    Fusite, B.V. 
    Netherlands 
        
    ORTRUD Verwaltungsgesellschaft mbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr-Holding GmbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr GmbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr AG 
    Switzerland 

Kn rr Electronics GmbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr Electronics GmbH   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 
    Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec GmbH   Grundst cksverwaltung KG 
    Germany 

Kn rr GmbH   Co. Grundbesitz OHG 
    Germany 

Kn rr Innovation GmbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

Kn rr Lommatec Mechanik f r die Elektronik Beteiligungs und Verwaltungs GmbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 

Kn rr Technical Furniture GmbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr-Ercotec GmbH 
    Germany 

Kn rr International GmbH 
    Germany 
        
    Therm-O-Disc Europe B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Emerson Electric Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Emerson Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emerson Electric (Taiwan) Company Limited 
    Taiwan 
      Emerson Finance LLC 
    Delaware 
      Emerson Middle East, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emerson Network Power, Energy Systems, North America, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emerson Network Power Exportel, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Emerson Network Power, Inc. 
    Texas 
      Emerson Sice Srl 
    Italy 
        
    Asco Numatics Sirai Srl 
    Italy 
        
    Branson Ultrasuoni Srl 
    Italy 
        
    CDZ.T Srl 
    Italy 
        
    Dixell Srl 
    Italy 
        
    Emerson Network Power Holding Srl 
    Italy 

Emerson Network Power Srl 
    Italy 

Emerson Network Power Enterprise Srl 
    Italy 

Emerson Network Power Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 

Liebert Hiross Holding GmbH 
    Germany 

Emerson Network Power GmbH 
    Germany 

10 

Emerson Network Power Kft. 
    Hungary 
        
    Emerson Process Management Srl 
    Italy 
        
    System Plast Srl 
    Italy 

System Plast GmbH 
    Germany 

System Plast International B.V. 
    Netherlands 

System Plast Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

System Plast Ltda 
    Brazil 

System Plast SAS 
    France 
      Emerson Telecommunication Products, LLC 
    Delaware 
        
    JTP Industries, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Network Power Connectivity Solutions, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Mexico Corporate Services S de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Stratos International, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Advanced Interconnection Technology LLC 
    Delaware 

Paracer, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Rapidwerks LLC 
    Delaware 

Sterling Holding Company 
    Delaware 

Quality Components, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Semflex, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Swiss Precision Products, Inc. 
    Delaware 

TQ Management Corporation 
    Delaware 

Trompeter Electronics, Inc. 
    Delaware 

STRATOS Lightwave LLC 
    Delaware 

Stratos Lightwave-Florida Incorporated 
    Delaware 

Tsunami Optics, Inc. 
    California 

Northern Technologies, Inc. 
    Idaho 
      Emerson Venezuela C.A. 
    Venezuela 
      Emerson Ventures Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emersub 3 LLC 
    Delaware 
      Emersub 14 LLC 
    Delaware 
        
    Vilter Manufacturing LLC 
    Wisconsin 
      Emersub CII, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emersub XLVI, Inc. 
    Nevada 
        
    Copesub, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Alliance Compressors LLC 
    Delaware 
      Emersub LII, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emersub XCI, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Emersub Italia Srl 
    Italy 
        
    International Gas Distribution SA 
    Luxembourg 
        
    O.M.T. OFFICINA MECCANICA TARTARINI Srl 
    Italy 
      EMR Foundation, Inc. 
    Missouri 
      EMR Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Branson de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Copeland Compresores Hermeticos, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Copeland Korea Inc. 
    Korea 

11 

Dar Ibtikar Al Iraq for General Services and General Trade LLC 
    Iraq 
        
    Emerson Argentina S.A. 
    Argentina 
        
    Emerson Climate Technologies Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
        
    Emerson del Peru S.A.C. 
    Peru 
        
    Emerson Dominicana, Srl 
    Dominican Republic 
        
    Emerson d.o.o. 
    Croatia 
        
    Emerson Electric (U.S.) Holding Corporation (Chile) Limitada 
    Chile 

Inversiones Emerson Chile Limitada 
    Chile 

Elevair S.A. 
    Chile 

Instalaciones y Servicios Elevair Service S.A. 
    Chile 
        
    Emerson Electric C.R. Srl 
    Costa Rica 
        
    Emerson Electric de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Emerson Electric Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 
    Switzerland 

Emerson Process Management Co., Ltd. 
    China 

EMR Emerson Holdings (Switzerland) GmbH 
    Switzerland 

EMR (Asia) Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Emerson Electric (China) Holdings Co., Ltd. 
    China 

ASCO Valve (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Beijing Rosemount Far East Instrument Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Branson Ultrasonics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

ClosetMaid (Jiangmen) Storage Limited 
    China 

Emerson Beijing Instrument Co. Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Shenyang) Refrigeration Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Climate Technologies - Solutions (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Climate Technologies (Suzhou) Trading Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Electric (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson eResource (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Fusite Electric (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson InSinkErator Appliance (Nanjing) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Junkang Enterprise (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Machinery Equipment (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Network Power (Mianyang) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Network Power (Xi'an) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Network Power Connectivity Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Network Power Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Power Transmission (Zhangzhou) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Process Management Flow Technologies Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Process Management Power   Water Solutions (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Process Management (Tianjin) Valves Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Process Management Valve Automation (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Professional Tools (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

12 

Emerson Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Fisher Jeon Gas Equipment (Chengdu) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Fisher Regulators (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Leroy Somer Electro-Technique (Fuzhou) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

Emerson Network Power (Jiangmen) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
        
    Emerson Electric Korea Ltd. 
    Korea 
        
    Emerson Electric (M) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 
        
    Emerson Electric Poland Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 

FZN Marbaise LS Sp. z.o.o. 
    Poland 
        
    Emerson Network Power (Bangladesh) Private Limited 
    Bangladesh 
        
    Emerson Network Power Limited 
    Nigeria 
        
    Emerson Network Power (Philippines), Inc. 
    Philippines 
        
    Emerson Network Power (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 

Emerson Network Power (Ghana) Limited 
    Ghana 
        
    Emerson Network Power, S.A. 
    Spain 

Jaure, S.A. 
    Spain 
        
    Emerson Panama S. de R.L. 
    Panama 
        
    Emerson Process Management Europe GmbH 
    Switzerland 
        
    Emerson Process Management Magyarorszag Kft. 
    Hungary 
        
    Emerson Process Management NV 
    Belgium 
        
    Emerson Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Puerto Rico 
        
    Emerson (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
        
    Emersub 5 LLC 
    Delaware 
        
    Emersub Mexico, Inc. 
    Nevada 

ClosetMaid Reynosa S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Copeland Scroll Compresores de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Daniel Measurement and Control, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emerpowsys, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emerson Electronic Connector and Components, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emerson Network Power Embedded Computing, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emerson Tool and Appliance Company, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emerson Tool Company de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Emersub 1 LLC 
    Delaware 

Intermetro de Acuna S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

InterMetro de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Emersub XXXVI, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Digital Appliance Controls (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Control Techniques Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Control Techniques GmbH 
    Germany 

Reta Anlagenbau GmbH 
    Germany 

SSB Group GmbH 
    Germany 

SSB Management GmbH 
    Germany 

SSB Wind Systems GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 

13 

SSB Wind Energy Technology (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 
    China 

SSB-Antriebstechnik-Verwaltungs-und Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 
    Germany 

Control Techniques Asia-Pacific Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Control Techniques Drives (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 

Control Techniques Singapore Pte Limited 
    Singapore 

Control Techniques Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Control Techniques Bermuda Limited 
    Bermuda 

Control Techniques Drives Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Control Techniques Dynamics Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Evershed Powerotor Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Moore Reed   Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Control Techniques Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd. 
    South Africa 

Control Techniques SpA 
    Italy 

Control Techniques Worldwide BV 
    Netherlands 

Control Techniques AG 
    Switzerland 

Control Techniques BV 
    Netherlands 

Control Techniques Brno s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 

Control Techniques China Pte. Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 

Control Techniques Endustriyel Kontrol Sistemerli Sanayi ve Ticaret AS 
    Turkey 

Control Techniques India Private Limited 
    India 

Control Techniques Elpro Automation Limited 
    India 

DrivesShop Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Foray 600 Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Foray 606 Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Holding Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Asco Joucomatic Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

Asco Power Technologies Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Bristol Babcock Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Computational Systems Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Copeland Limited 
    United Kingdom 

CSA Consulting Engineers Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

El-O-Matic Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Climate Technologies Retail Solutions UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Electric U.K. Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Artesyn Communication Products UK Ltd. 
    Scotland 

Bray Lectroheat Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Buehler Europe Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Bannerscientific Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Buehler UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Metaserv Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Metallurgical Services Laboratories Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson FZE 
    UAE 

Emerson Climate Technologies FZE 
    UAE 

14 

Emerson Process Management Morocco Sarl 
    Morocco 

Emerson Network Power - Embedded Computing UK Ltd. 
    Scotland 

ENPDOR2012A Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Liebert Swindon Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Energy Systems (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Network Power Connectivity Solutions Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Midwest Microwave Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Distribution Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Shared Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 

EMR Barnstaple Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Fisher-Rosemount Properties Limited 
    United Kingdom 

F-R Properties (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Groveley Detection Limited 
    United Kingdom 

METCO Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 

TopWorx UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Process Management Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson UK Trustees Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Fisher Controls Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Farris Engineering Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Fisher Governor Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 

MDC Technology Limited 
    United Kingdom 

MDC Technology Trustees Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Mobrey Group Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Mobrey Overseas Sales Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Mobrey Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Pactrol Controls Limited 
    United Kingdom 
        
    EMR Worldwide B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Emerson Climate Technologies - Transportation Solutions ApS 
    Denmark 

EMERSON DHC B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Emerson Electric (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 

Emerson Process Management Qatar S.S.C. 
    Qatar 

Emersub 7 LLC 
    Delaware 

Emersub 8 LLC 
    Delaware 

Emersub 9 LLC 
    Delaware 

Emersub 10 LLC 
    Delaware 

Emersub 11 LLC 
    Delaware 

Emersub 12 LLC 
    Delaware 

EMR (Mauritius) Ltd. 
    Mauritius 

Emerson Industrial Automation Electric Power Generation Private Limited 
    India 

Emerson Electric Canada Limited 
    Canada 

Emerson Holding Sweden AB 
    Sweden 

Emerson Sweden AB 
    Sweden 

15 

Emerson Network Power AB 
    Sweden 

Embedded Computing   Power Sweden AB 
    Sweden 

Rosemount Tank Radar AB 
    Sweden 

Emerson Process Management Marine Solutions Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Rosemount Tank Gauging India Pvt. Ltd. 
    India 

Rosemount Tank Gauging Middle East SPC 
    Bahrain 

Emerson USD Finance Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Net Safety Monitoring Inc. 
    Canada 

Net Safety Monitoring Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Rutherfurd Acquisitions Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Group Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Advanced Design Electronics Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Batteries Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Holdings UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Fleetness 174 Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Exide Electronics Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Nominees Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Pension Trust Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Power Protection Limited 
    Thailand 

Chloride Power Protection Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Chloride Quest Trustees Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Supplies Limited 
    United Kingdom 

CHLD Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 

Chloride do Brasil Limitada 
    Brazil 

Chloride Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Srl 
    Italy 

Chloride Koexa S.A. 
    Argentina 

Chloride Power Protection China Ltd. 
    China 

Chloride Secure Power Philippines Inc. 
    Philippines 

CPE Chloride Power Electronics S.A. 
    Spain 

Emerson Network Power, Limitada 
    Portugal 

Chloride UPS Svenska AB 
    Sweden 

Emerson Network Power Guc Sistemleri Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 

Emerson Network Power Limited 
    Ireland 

Emerson Network Power (Pune) Private Limited 
    India 

Masterguard do Brasil Limitada 
    Brazil 

Chloride U.K. Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Continuous Power International Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Continuous Power Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emerson Network Power Industrial Systems SAS 
    France 

AST Electronique Services S.A.S. 
    France 

Emerson Network Power SAS 
    France 

16 

France Onduleurs Ondyne Sarl 
    France 

Emerson Network Power Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Emergency Power Systems Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Oneac Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Exide Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Fleetness 173 Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Masterpower Electronics Limited 
    Scotland 

Ondyne (UK) Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Stocksave Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Vertu Security Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Viper Security Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Bardic Emergency Systems Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Investments Limited 
    Guernsey 

Chloride Financing Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Chloride Financing UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
        
    Fisher-Rosemount Peru S.A.C. 
    Peru 
        
    F-R Tecnologias de Flujo, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Motoreductores U.S., S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    NetworkPower Ecuador S.A. 
    Ecuador 
        
    PT. Emerson Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
        
    RAC Technologies (Israel) Ltd. 
    Israel 
        
    Rey-Lam, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Termotec de Chihuahua, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Tranmet Holdings Limited 
    United Kingdom 

Tranmet Holdings B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Industrial Group Metran CJSC 
    Russia 

Metran-Export CJSC 
    Russia 
      EPMCO Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Emerson Process Management Regulator Technologies, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Fromex, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
        
    Fisher Controls International LLC 
    Delaware 

Emerson Process Management Australia Pty Limited 
    Australia 

Emerson Electric Australia Co. Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 

Emerson Process Management New Zealand Limited 
    New Zealand 

Emerson Process Management China Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 

Fisher Controles de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

Instrument   Valve Services Company 
    Delaware 

Nippon Fisher Co., Ltd. 
    Japan 
        
    Fisher-Rosemount Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Emerson Process Management LLLP 
    Delaware 

Emerson Process Management Power   Water Solutions, Inc. 
    Delaware 

Turbine Control Service Associates, Inc. 
    Pennsylvania 
      Emerson Process Management SAS 
    France 

17 

Emerson Process Management, Lda 
    Portugal 
      Fiberconn Assemblies Morocco Sarl 
    Morocco 
      Fusite Corporation 
    Ohio 
        
    Emerson Japan Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Fusite Land Company 
    Delaware 
      General Equipment and Manufacturing Company, Inc. 
    Kentucky 
        
    TopWorx RSA (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      High Voltage Maintenance Corporation 
    Ohio 
      Hiross India Private Limited 
    India 
      Humboldt Hermetic Motor Corp. 
    Delaware 
        
    Woodstock Land Company LLC 
    Missouri 
      Innovative Control Systems, Inc. 
    New York 
      Intrinsic Safety Equipment of Texas, Inc. 
    Texas 
      Kato Engineering Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Kop-Flex, Inc. 
    Delaware 
        
    Kop-Flex Canada Limited 
    Canada 
      Metaloy, Inc. 
    Massachusetts 
      Metropolitan International, Inc. 
    Nevada 
        
    InterMetro Industries Corporation 
    Nevada 
        
    InterMetro Industries Corporation 
    Delaware 

InterMetro Industries B.V. 
    Netherlands 

Metro Industries, Inc. 
    Nevada 

Metropolitan Wire (Canada) Ltd. 
    Canada 

Metropolitan Wire Corporation 
    Pennsylvania 
      Motores Hermeticos del Sur, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Numatics, Incorporated 
    Michigan 
        
    Asco Numatics (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. 
    Taiwan 
        
    Numatics GmbH 
    Germany 
      ProTeam, Inc. 
    Idaho 
        
    ProTeam (China) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Ridge Tool Europe NV 
    Belgium 
        
    Ridgid Scandinavia A/S 
    Denmark 
        
    Von Arx AG 
    Switzerland 

Von Arx GmbH 
    Germany 
      Rosemount Tank Gauging North America Inc. 
    Texas 
      Roxar, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      System Plast, LLC 
    North Carolina 
        
    SPPA LLC 
    Pennsylvania 

Solus Industrial Innovations, LLC 
    Delaware 
        
    System Plast USA de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Termocontroles de Juarez, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Tescom Corporation 
    Minnesota 
        
    Tescom Europe Management GmbH 
    Germany 

18 

Tescom Europe GmbH   Co. KG 
    Germany 
      Thunderline Z, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Transmisiones de Potencia Emerson, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 

19 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 exhibit23fy13.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 FY13 

Exhibit 23 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  The Board of Directors 
  Emerson Electric Co.: 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-173933, 333-154362, 333-154361, 333-152917, 333-152916, 333-118589, 333-90240 and 333-46919 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-178110, 333-155674, 333-110546, 333-52658, 333-84673 and 333-66865 on Form S-3 of Emerson Electric Co. of our report dated   November 19, 2013  , with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Emerson Electric Co. as of September 30, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2013, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2013, which report is incorporated by reference in the September 30, 2013 annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric Co. 

/s/ KPMG LLP  
    
  St. Louis, Missouri 
  November 19, 2013    

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 exhibit24fy13.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Exhibit 24 FY13 

Exhibit 24 
    
  POWER OF ATTORNEY 
    
  The undersigned members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers of Emerson Electric Co., a Missouri corporation with principal offices at 8000 West Florissant Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri 63136, hereby appoint F. J. Dellaquila as their Attorney-in-Fact for the purpose of signing Emerson Electric Co.'s Securities and Exchange Commission Form 10-K (and any and all Amendments thereto) for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013. 

Dated: October 1, 2013 

Signature 
      
    Title 

/s/ 
    D. N. Farr 
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
        
    D. N. Farr 

/s/ 
    R. J. Schlueter 
      
    Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 
        
    R. J. Schlueter 

/s/ 
    C. A. H. Boersig 
      
    Director 
        
    C. A. H. Boersig 

/s/ 
    J. B. Bolten 
      
    Director 
        
    J. B. Bolten 

/s/ 
    A. A. Busch III 
      
    Director 
        
    A. A. Busch III 

/s/ 
    A. F. Golden 
      
    Director 
        
    A. F. Golden 

/s/ 
    H. Green 
      
    Director 
        
    H. Green 

/s/ 
    W. R. Johnson 
      
    Director 
        
    W. R. Johnson 

/s/ 
    M. S. Levatich 

Director 
        
    M. S. Levatich 

/s/ 
    C. A. Peters 
      
    Director 
        
    C. A. Peters 

/s/ 
    J. W. Prueher 

Director 
        
    J. W. Prueher 

/s/ 
    R. L. Stephenson 

Director 
        
    R. L. Stephenson 

/s/ 
    J. S. Turley 
      
    Director 
        
    J. S. Turley 

</EX-24>

<EX-31>
 7
 exhibit31fy13.htm
 EXHIBIT 31

Exhibit 31 FY13 

Exhibit 31  
  Certification  
    
  I, D. N. Farr, certify that:  
    
  1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric Co.; 
    
  2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
    
  3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
    
  4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
    
  a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
    
  b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
    
  c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
    
  d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred  
  during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
    
  5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors:  
    
  a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
    
  b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
    
                   Date: 
    November 19, 2013 
    /s/ D. N. Farr               

D. N. Farr 

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

Certification  
    
  I, F. J. Dellaquila, certify that:  
    
  1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Emerson Electric Co.; 
    
  2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
    
  3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
    
  4.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
    
  a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
    
  b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
    
  c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
    
  d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
    
  5.  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors:   
    
  a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
    
  b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
    
                   Date: 
    November 19, 2013 
    /s/ F. J. Dellaquila              

F. J. Dellaquila 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 8
 exhibit32fy13.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

Exhibit 32 FY13 

Exhibit 32  
    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, D. N. Farr, certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that: 
                 (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
      (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ 
    D. N. Farr               

D. N. Farr 

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

November 19, 2013 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(b) AND 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Emerson Electric Co. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2013, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, F. J. Dellaquila, certify, to the best of my knowledge, pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14(b) and 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that: 
                 (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
      (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ 
    F. J. Dellaquila               

F. J. Dellaquila 

Executive Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

Emerson Electric Co. 

November 19, 2013 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 emr-20130930.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 emr-20130930.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 emr-20130930_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 emr-20130930_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 emr-20130930_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 emr-20130930_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

