<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090402_10-K_edgar_data_354950_0000950144-09-002875_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1092297</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>189071</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>11791</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>640612</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>49</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950144-09-002875.hdr.sgml : 20090402
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090402161235
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950144-09-002875
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20090201
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090402
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090402

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HOME DEPOT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000354950
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-LUMBER & OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS DEALERS [5211]
		IRS NUMBER:				953261426
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0128

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08207
		FILM NUMBER:		09727805

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2455 PACES FERRY ROAD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30339-4024
		BUSINESS PHONE:		770-433-82

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2455 PACES FERRY ROAD
		CITY:			ATLANTA
		STATE:			GA
		ZIP:			30339-4024

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 N3VByChVQ4rDQHQ1i7/34u5dTqcg01i4oerWt+H585tjDE6Piw7uG78EA633tyWi
 5/CGI/NO7xWFdhIAfMMJxw==

 0000950144-09-002875.txt : 20090402

10-K
 1
 x17422e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

WASHINGTON, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

Commission File Number 1-8207 

THE HOME DEPOT, INC.  

(Exact Name of Registrant as
    Specified in its Charter)

Delaware  

(State or other jurisdiction of
    incorporation or organization)

95-3261426  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

2455 Paces Ferry Road,
    N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339  

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code:
      (770) 433-8211  

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

Name of Each
    Exchange 

Title of Each
    Class  

on Which
    Registered  

Common Stock, $0.05 Par Value Per Share

New York Stock Exchange

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
     None 

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act. Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act. Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days. Yes      No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule
     12b-2  of the
    Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer    

Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated
    filer    
      
      (Do
    not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Smaller reporting
    company    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes         No   

The aggregate market value of the common stock of the Registrant
    held by non-affiliates of the Registrant on August 3, 2008
    was $39.7 billion.

The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant s common
    stock as of March 23, 2009 was 1,696,279,008 shares.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Portions of the Registrant s proxy statement for the 2009
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    to the extent described herein.

THE HOME
    DEPOT, INC. 
    FISCAL YEAR 2008
     FORM 10-K  
     
    TABLE OF CONTENTS  

PART I 

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

5

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

8

Item 2. 

Properties 

8

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

10

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

11

PART II 

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

12

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

14

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

15

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

24

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

25

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

50

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

50

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

50

PART III 

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

51

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

52

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

52

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

52

Item 14. 

Principal Accounting Fees and Services 

52

PART IV 

Item 15. 

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 

53

Signatures 

57

Table of Contents   

CAUTIONARY
    STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE 
    PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995  

Certain statements regarding our future performance constitute
     forward-looking statements  as defined in the Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements may relate to, among other things, the demand for our
    products and services, net sales growth, comparable store sales,
    impact of cannibalization, store openings and closures, state of
    the economy, state of the residential construction, housing and
    home improvement markets, commodity price inflation and
    deflation, implementation of store initiatives, continuation of
    reinvestment plans, net earnings performance, earnings per
    share, stock-based compensation expense, capital allocation and
    expenditures, liquidity, the effect of adopting certain
    accounting standards, return on invested capital, management of
    our purchasing or customer credit policies, the effect of
    charges, the planned recapitalization of the Company, timing of
    the completion of such recapitalization and the ability to issue
    debt securities on terms and at rates acceptable to us.

Forward-looking statements are based on currently available
    information and our current assumptions, expectations and
    projections about future events. You are cautioned not to place
    undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Such
    statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
    subject to future events, risks and uncertainties  
    many of which are beyond our control or are currently unknown to
    us   as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions
    that could cause actual results to differ materially from our
    expectations and projections. Such risks and uncertainties
    include, but are not limited to, those described in
    Item 1A,  Risk Factors. 

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are
    made, and we do not undertake to update such statements other
    than as required by law. You are advised, however, to review any
    further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic
    filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    ( SEC ).

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business.  

Introduction   

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world s largest home
    improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year
    ended February 1, 2009 ( fiscal 2008 ). The Home
    Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home
    improvement and lawn and garden products and provide a number of
    services. The Home Depot stores average approximately
    105,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately
    24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the
    end of fiscal 2008, we had 2,233 The Home Depot stores located
    throughout the United States including the Commonwealth of
    Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands
    and Guam ( U.S. ), Canada, China and Mexico. In
    addition, at the end of fiscal 2008, the Company operated 34
    EXPO Design Center stores, two THD Design Center stores and five
    Yardbirds stores. On January 26, 2009, we announced the
    planned closing of our EXPO, THD Design Center and Yardbirds
    stores as part of our focus on our core business.

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was
    incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate
    office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta,
    Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is
     (770) 433-8211. 

We maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make
    available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to
    shareholders, Annual Reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably
    practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such
    documents to, the SEC.

We include our website addresses throughout this filing only as
    textual references. The information contained on our websites is
    not incorporated by reference into this report.

1

Table of Contents   

Our
    Business   

Operating Strategy.    In fiscal 2008,
    despite the continuing difficult economic environment, we
    continued to focus on our core retail business, investing in our
    associates and stores and improving our customer service. We
    shifted our focus from new square footage growth to maximizing
    the productivity of our existing store base. During the year, we
    implemented significant changes in our store operations to make
    them simpler, more consistent and more customer-focused. We
    shifted associate hours to be more customer facing and refocused
    our efforts on offering every day values in the stores.
    Additionally, we made several strategic decisions which are
    intended to optimize our capital allocation, concentrate our
    efforts on our core business and create long-term value for our
    shareholders, including our decision to close 15 stores, remove
    approximately 50 stores from our new store pipeline and exit our
    EXPO, THD Design Center, Yardbirds and HD Bath businesses.

Customers.    The Home Depot stores serve
    three primary customer groups:

Do-It-Yourself ( D-I-Y )
    Customers:   These customers are typically home
    owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and
    installations.

Do-It-For-Me ( D-I-F-M )
    Customers:   These customers are typically home
    owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties
    to complete the project or installation, or both. We arrange for
    the installation of a variety of The Home Depot products through
    qualified independent contractors.

Professional Customers:   These customers are
    professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small
    business owners and tradesmen. In many stores, we offer a
    variety of programs to these customers, including delivery and
    will-call services, dedicated staff, extensive merchandise
    selections and expanded credit programs, all of which we believe
    increase sales to these customers.

Products.    A typical Home Depot store
    stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year,
    including both national brand name and proprietary items. The
    following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major
    product group (and related services) for each of the last three
    fiscal years:

In fiscal 2008, we reduced our inventory while maintaining a
    favorable in-stock rate. We also reduced a number of one-time
    discount promotions and refocused our efforts on offering every
    day values. We continued to introduce innovative and distinctive
    products to our customers, including
    Thomasville   

    deep seating patio furniture,
    Charbroil   

    infrared grills,
    RIDGID   

    pressure washers and
    Homelite   

    trimmers.

To complement and enhance our product selection, we have formed
    strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected
    suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized
    brand names. During fiscal 2008, we offered a number of
    proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of
    departments including, but not limited to, Behr Premium
    Plus   

    paint, Hampton
    Bay   

    lighting,
    Vigoro   

    lawn care products,
    Husky   

    hand tools,
    RIDGID   

    and
    Ryobi   

    power tools,
    Pegasus   

    faucets, and Glacier
    Bay   

    bath fixtures. We may consider additional strategic alliances
    and relationships with other suppliers and will continue to
    assess opportunities to expand the range of products available
    under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.

From our Store Support Center we maintain a global sourcing
    merchandise program to source high-quality products directly
    from manufacturers around the world. Our Product Development
    Merchants identify and purchase market leading innovative
    products directly for our stores. Additionally, we have three
    sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai,
    Shenzhen and Dalian, and offices in Gurgaon, India; Milan,
    Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada.

2

Table of Contents   

Services.    Our stores offer a variety of
    installation services. These services target D-I-F-M customers
    who select and purchase products and installation of those
    products from us. These installation programs include products
    such as carpeting, flooring, cabinets, countertops and water
    heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a
    number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such
    as generators and furnace and central air systems.

Store
    Growth   

United States .  At the end of fiscal 2008, we
    were operating 1,971 The Home Depot stores in the U.S.,
    including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of
    the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. During fiscal 2008, we
    opened 41 new The Home Depot stores, including five relocations,
    in the U.S.

Canada .  At the end of fiscal 2008, we were
    operating 176 The Home Depot stores in ten Canadian provinces.
    Of these stores, 12 were opened during fiscal 2008, including
    one relocation.

Mexico .  At the end of fiscal 2008, we were
    operating 74 The Home Depot stores in Mexico. Of these stores,
    nine were opened during fiscal 2008.

China .  At the end of fiscal 2008, we were
    operating 12 The Home Depot stores in six Chinese cities.

Certain financial information about our operations outside of
    the U.S. is reported in Note 1 to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Store
    Support Services   

Information Technologies.    During fiscal
    2008, we continued to make information technology investments to
    better support our customers and provide an improved overall
    shopping environment and experience. We invested in our supply
    chain and merchandising tools to improve inventory management
    capabilities and streamline our operations.

We completed the deployment of a new enterprise resource
    planning ( ERP ) system to our Canadian division,
    which includes all stores and distribution centers. We will
    assess the return on investment and performance of the system in
    the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 ( fiscal
    2009 ) as we evaluate alternatives for our
    U.S. application footprint.

With regard to our supply chain, we implemented a new warehouse
    management system to support the U.S. and Canadian stores,
    continued implementation of a new transportation management
    system, completed a technology refresh at our distribution
    centers, and implemented improvements to our Central Automated
    Replenishment system.

We made improvements to the tools utilized in merchandising
    systems in the areas of assortment management, forecasting, and
    replenishment.

With our continued focus on the stores, we provided technology
    improvements designed to help store associates perform their
    tasks and improve customer service. We equipped 1,100 stores
    with new computers, registers and printers, and 920 stores
    received new paint dispensers.

Credit Services.    We offer six credit
    programs through third-party credit providers to professional,
    D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers. In fiscal 2008, approximately
    3.2 million new The Home Depot credit accounts were opened,
    and the total number of The Home Depot active account holders
    was approximately 12.5 million. Proprietary credit card
    sales accounted for approximately 28% of store sales in fiscal
    2008. In fiscal 2008, Home Depot re-negotiated and extended the
    term of the primary contracts governing the programs. The new
    contract with Citibank established a ceiling for the cost of
    credit for the program while retaining the ability for portfolio
    performance improvements to lower the cost of credit.

Logistics.    Our logistics programs are
    designed to ensure product availability for customers, effective
    use of our investment in inventory and low total supply chain
    costs. At the end of fiscal 2008, we operated 30 lumber
    distribution centers, 45 conventional distribution centers and
    five transit facilities, all located in the U.S., Canada and
    Mexico. Additionally in 2008, we opened four new Rapid
    Deployment Centers ( RDC ) in the U.S., bringing our
    total number of RDCs to five. We now serve approximately 25% of
    our U.S. stores from RDCs. RDCs allow for aggregation of
    store product needs to a single purchase order, and then rapid
    allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon

3

Table of Contents   

arrival at the center. This process allows improved
    transportation, simplified order processing at suppliers and
    reduced lead time from the time that product needs at stores are
    determined to actual replenishment. We plan to open additional
    RDCs during fiscal 2009 and 2010 and ultimately serve all of our
    U.S. stores from RDCs.

In fiscal 2008, approximately 35% of the merchandise shipped to
    our U.S. stores flowed through our distribution facilities.
    The remaining merchandise was shipped directly from suppliers to
    our stores. The expansion of the RDC network is expected to
    increase our distribution utilization. In addition to
    replenishing merchandise at our stores, we also provide delivery
    of in-stock and special order product directly to our customers.

Associates.    At the end of fiscal 2008,
    we employed approximately 322,000 associates, of whom
    approximately 22,500 were salaried, with the remainder
    compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. Approximately 65%
    of our associates are employed on a full-time basis. We believe
    that our employee relations are very good. To attract and retain
    qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and
    wage levels in each market we serve.

Intellectual Property.    Through our
    wholly-owned subsidiary, Homer TLC, Inc., we have registered or
    applied for registration, in a number of countries, for a
    variety of internet domain names, service marks and trademarks
    for use in our businesses, including The Home
    Depot   ;

    Hampton
    Bay   

    fans, lighting and accessories; Glacier
    Bay   

    toilets, sinks and faucets;
    Pegasus   

    faucets and bath accessories; and
    Workforce   

    tools, tool boxes and shelving. We have also obtained and now
    maintain patent portfolios relating to certain products and
    services provided by The Home Depot, and continually seek to
    patent or otherwise protect selected innovations we incorporate
    into our products and business operations. We regard our
    intellectual property as having significant value to our
    business and as being an important factor in the marketing of
    our brand,
     e-commerce, 
    stores and new areas of our business.

Quality Assurance Program.    We have both
    quality assurance and engineering resources who oversee the
    quality of our directly imported, globally-sourced and
    proprietary products. Through these programs, we have
    established criteria for supplier and product performance that
    are designed to ensure our products comply with federal, state
    and local quality and performance standards. These programs also
    allow us to measure and track timeliness of shipments. These
    performance records are made available to the factories to allow
    them to strive for improvement. The program addresses quality
    assurance at the factory, product and packaging levels.

Environmental, Health   Safety
    ( EH S ).    We are committed to
    maintaining a safe environment for our customers and associates
    and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do
    business. Our EH S function in the field is directed by
    trained associates focused primarily on the execution of the
    EH S programs. Additionally, we have a Store Support
    Center-based team of dedicated EH S professionals who
    evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and
    programs on a Company-wide basis.

Environmental.    The Home Depot is
    committed to conducting business in an environmentally
    responsible manner and this commitment impacts all areas of our
    business, including store construction and maintenance, energy
    usage, product selection and customer education.

In fiscal 2008, we spent approximately $27.5 million for
    energy efficiency related projects. By replacing HVAC units in
    approximately 200 existing stores and switching to the use of
    T-5 lighting in approximately 700 existing stores, we estimate
    cumulative savings to be approximately $28 million since
    fiscal 2006. In addition, we have implemented strict operational
    standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of
    our facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation
    and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the
    largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as
    utilizing the Novar Energy Management and Alarm System in each
    store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by
    implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs we have
    avoided 1.6 billion pounds of greenhouse gas emissions
    since fiscal 2006. We believe this is equivalent to removing
    approximately 132,000 cars from the highway. In June 2008, we
    launched a nation-wide in-store compact fluorescent light bulb
    recycling program. This service is offered to all customers
     free-of-charge 
    and is available in all U.S. stores, including Alaska and
    Hawaii.

We have also taken additional measures to further our
    sustainability efforts. We partnered with the U.S. Green
    Building Council and have built seven Leadership in Energy and
    Environmental Design ( LEED ) green certified and
    equivalent stores. We offset the carbon emissions created by our
    facilities and a portion of those emissions created by
    business-related travel through an agreement with The
    Conservation Fund that resulted in the planting of thousands of
    trees that will help reduce the heat-island effect in urban
    areas, reduce erosion and help clean the air. Through our Eco
    Options  sm  

4

Table of Contents   

Program, we have created product categories that allow consumers
    to easily identify environmentally preferred product selections
    in our stores. We implemented a Supplier Social and
    Environmental Responsibility Program to ensure that our
    suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and
    environmental responsibility.

Seasonality.    Our business is seasonal
    to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales
    occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume
    occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter.

Competition.    Our business is highly
    competitive, based in part on price, store location, customer
    service and assortment of merchandise. In each of the markets we
    serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores,
    electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and
    lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete
    with discount stores, local, regional and national hardware
    stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building
    supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers. Due to
    the variety of competition we face, we are unable to precisely
    measure the impact on our sales by our competitors.

Item 1A.    

Risk
    Factors.  

The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations and could cause actual results to differ
    materially from our expectations and projections. The Risk
    Factors described below include the considerable risks
    associated with the current economic environment and the
    possible adverse effects on our financial condition and results
    of operations. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction
    with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in
    Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and
    related notes in Item 8. There also may be other factors
    that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this
    report, generally because we do not perceive them to be
    material. Such factors could cause results to differ materially
    from our expectations.

The
    state of the housing, construction and home improvement markets,
    rising costs, a reduction in the availability of financing,
    weather and other conditions in North America could further
    adversely affect our costs of doing business, demand for our
    products and services and our financial
    performance.   

In 2008, the housing, residential construction and home
    improvement markets have deteriorated dramatically and more
    severely than was previously anticipated. We expect the
    deterioration to continue through 2009 and our fiscal 2009 Net
    Sales and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations
    to decline from fiscal 2008. Other factors   including
    increasing unemployment and foreclosures, interest rate
    fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare
    costs, the availability of financing, the state of the credit
    markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer
    credit, consumer confidence, weather, natural disasters and
    other factors beyond our control   could further
    adversely affect demand for our products and services and our
    financial performance. These and other similar factors could
    increase our costs and cause our customers to delay purchasing
    or determine not to purchase home improvement products and
    services.

We
    rely on third party suppliers. If we fail to identify and
    develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified
    suppliers, or if our current suppliers experience financial
    difficulties, our ability to timely and efficiently access
    products that meet our high standards for quality could be
    adversely affected.   

We buy our products from suppliers located throughout the world.
    Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships
    with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for
    quality and our need to access products in a timely and
    efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to
    access products also can be adversely affected by political
    instability, the financial instability of suppliers,
    suppliers  noncompliance with applicable laws, trade
    restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport
    capacity and cost and other factors beyond our control.

If we
    are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and
    relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products, we
    may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to
    differentiate ourselves from our competitors.   

As part of our focus on product differentiation, we have formed
    strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected
    suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized
    brand names. If we are unable to manage and expand these
    alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for
    comparable products, we may not be able to effectively execute
    product differentiation.

5

Table of Contents   

Our
    ability to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if
    needed, could be adversely affected by the volatility in the
    capital markets.   

We obtain and manage liquidity from the positive cash flow we
    generate from our operating activities and our access to capital
    markets, including our commercial paper programs supported by a
    long-term bank
     line-of-credit 
    commitment. Although we currently maintain a strong investment
    grade rating and had no outstanding commercial paper obligations
    as of the end of fiscal 2008, there is no assurance that our
    ability to obtain additional financing through the capital
    markets, if needed, will not be adversely impacted if the
    current recessionary trends persist or worsen. Continued
    volatility in the capital markets could result in diminished
    availability of credit, higher cost of borrowing and lack of
    confidence in the equity market, making it more difficult to
    obtain additional financing on terms that are favorable to us.

The
    implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives
    could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these
    initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might
    fail.   

We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant
    investments in our supply chain and technology. These
    initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow
    our associates to continue to provide high quality service to
    our customers and to provide our customers with a better
    experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions
    associated with the implementation of these initiatives could
    disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near
    term. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded
    technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might
    take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits,
    or the initiatives might fail altogether.

We may
    not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends,
    which could adversely affect our relationship with customers,
    the demand for our products and services and our market
    share.   

It is difficult to successfully predict the products and
    services our customers will demand. The success of our business
    depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to
    evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences.
    Failure to design attractive stores and to timely identify or
    effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences,
    spending patterns and home improvement needs could adversely
    affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our
    products and services and our market share.

The
    inflation or deflation of commodity prices could affect our
    prices, demand for our products, sales and profit
    margins.   

Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other
    raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to
    fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international
    supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation,
    government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid
    and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our sales
    and profit margins.

Our
    costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in
    federal, state or local regulations.   

Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage or living
    wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace
    regulations could increase our costs of doing business. In
    addition, changes in federal, state or local regulations
    governing the sale of some of our products or tax regulations
    could increase our costs of doing business. Also, passage of the
    Employee Free Choice Act or other similar laws in Congress could
    lead to higher labor costs by encouraging unionization efforts
    among our associates and disruption of store operations.

Our
    success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain
    highly qualified associates.   

To be successful, we must attract, train and retain a large
    number of highly qualified associates while controlling labor
    costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous
    external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and
    other insurance costs. In addition, many of our associates are
    in hourly positions with historically high turnover rates. We
    compete with other retail businesses for these associates and
    invest significant resources in training and motivating them. We
    also depend on our executives and other key associates for our
    success. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract
    or retain highly qualified associates in the future.

6

Table of Contents   

Changes
    in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates
    and judgments by management related to complex accounting
    matters could significantly affect our financial results or
    financial condition.   

Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting
    pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations
    with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our
    business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment,
    inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, tax matters and
    litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective
    assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or
    their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions,
    estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported
    or expected financial performance or financial condition.

Increased
    competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our
    products and services and could decrease our market
    share.   

We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete
    principally based on price, store location, customer service and
    assortment of merchandise. In each market we serve, there are a
    number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing
    and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With
    respect to some products, we also compete with discount stores,
    local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms,
    warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and other
    retailers. In addition, we compete with specialty design stores
    or showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design
    professionals, local and regional distributors, and wholesalers
    and manufacturers that sell products directly to their customer
    bases. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our
    competitors could affect prices or demand for our products and
    services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond
    to these competitive pressures, our financial performance and
    our market share could be adversely affected.

We are
    involved in a number of legal proceedings, and while we cannot
    predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies
    with certainty, some of these outcomes may adversely affect our
    operations or increase our costs.   

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including
    government inquiries and investigations, and consumer,
    employment, tort and other litigation that arise from time to
    time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is
    inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these
    proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or
    refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our
    operations or could result in excessive verdicts. Additionally,
    defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve
    significant expense and diversion of management s attention
    and resources from other matters.

The
    regulatory environment related to information security and
    privacy is increasingly rigorous, and a significant privacy
    breach could adversely affect our business.   

The protection of our customer, employee and company data is
    important to us. The regulatory environment related to
    information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with
    new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our
    business. In addition, our customers have a high expectation
    that we will adequately protect their personal information. A
    significant breach of customer, employee or company data could
    damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and
    lawsuits.

Any
    inability to open new stores on schedule will delay the
    contribution of these new stores to our financial
    performance.   

We expect to increase our presence in certain existing markets
    and enter new markets. Our ability to open new stores will
    depend primarily on our ability to identify attractive
    locations, negotiate leases or real estate purchase agreements
    on acceptable terms, attract and train qualified
    employees, and manage pre-opening expenses, including
    construction costs.

Environmental regulations, local zoning issues and other laws
    related to land use affect our ability to open new stores.
    Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors
    will affect our ability to open stores on schedule, which will
    delay the impact of these new stores on our financial
    performance.

7

Table of Contents   

If we
    cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by
    international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our
    international operations.   

Our strategy includes expansion of our operations in
    international markets by selective acquisitions, strategic
    alliances and the opening of new stores. Our ability to
    successfully execute our strategy in international markets is
    affected by many of the same operational risks we face in
    expanding our U.S. operations. In addition, international
    expansion may be adversely affected by our inability to identify
    and gain access to local suppliers as well as by local laws and
    customs, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations, such as the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA ), legal and
    regulatory constraints, political and economic conditions and
    currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we
    currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks
    inherent in international operations also include, among others,
    the costs and difficulties of managing international operations,
    adverse tax consequences, greater difficulty in enforcing
    intellectual property rights and risks associated with FCPA and
    local anti-bribery law compliance. Additionally, foreign
    currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on
    our future costs or on future cash flows from our international
    operations.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.  

Not applicable.

Item 2.    

Properties.  

The following tables show locations of the 1,971 The Home Depot
    stores located in the U.S. and its territories and the 262
    The Home Depot stores outside of the U.S. at the end of
    fiscal 2008:

8

Table of Contents   

Additionally, at the end of fiscal 2008, we had 41 other retail
    store locations, which included 34 EXPO Design Center stores
    located in Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Illinois,
    Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, New York,
    Tennessee, Texas and Virginia, five Yardbirds stores located in
    California and two THD Design Center stores located in
    California and North Carolina. We also operated nine Home
    Decorators Collection locations in California, Illinois, Kansas,
    Missouri, North Carolina and Oklahoma.

Of our 2,274 stores at the end of fiscal 2008, approximately 89%
    were owned (including those owned subject to a ground lease)
    consisting of approximately 211.9 million square feet, and
    approximately 11% of such stores were leased consisting of
    approximately 26.2 million square feet.

At the end of fiscal 2008, we utilized 204 warehouses and
    distribution centers located in 46 states, consisting of
    approximately 30.2 million square feet, of which
    approximately 0.2 million is owned and approximately
    30.0 million is leased.

Our executive, corporate staff, divisional staff and financial
    offices occupy approximately 2.0 million square feet of
    leased and owned space in Atlanta, Georgia. At the end of fiscal
    2008, we occupied an aggregate of approximately 4.0 million
    square feet, of which approximately 2.2 million square feet
    is owned and approximately 1.8 million square feet is
    leased, for store support centers and customer support centers.

9

Table of Contents   

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings.  

In August 2005, the Company received an informal request from
    the staff of the SEC for information related to the
    Company s
     return-to-vendor 
    policies and procedures. Subsequent to August 2005, the SEC
    staff requested additional information related to such policies
    and procedures. The SEC staff last contacted the Company
    regarding this matter in January 2007. The Company responded to
    the requests and will continue to fully cooperate with the SEC
    staff. The SEC has informed the Company that the informal
    inquiry is not an indication that any violations of law have
    occurred. Although the Company cannot predict the outcome of
    this matter, it does not expect that this informal inquiry will
    have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial
    condition or results of operations.

The SEC informed the Company on December 10, 2008 that it
    does not intend to take any action on its informal inquiry into
    the Company s stock option granting practices, which
    inquiry commenced in June 2006. The Office of the
    U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York also
    requested information on this subject in 2006. The Company
    responded to each request and otherwise cooperated with the SEC
    and the Office of the U.S. Attorney, including producing
    documents to the Office of the U.S. Attorney in late 2006.
    The SEC matter is therefore now closed, and we have not received
    any communication from the Office of the U.S. Attorney
    since that time.

On October 8, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Eleventh Circuit affirmed the dismissal of class actions filed
    against the Company and certain of its current and former
    officers and directors in the U.S. District Court for the
    Northern District of Georgia in Atlanta, alleging certain
    misrepresentations in violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a)
    of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and
     Rule 10b-5 
    thereunder in connection with the Company s
     return-to-vendor 
    practices. These actions were filed by certain current and
    former shareholders of the Company in the second quarter of
    2006. Relief sought in the amended complaint included
    unspecified damages and costs and attorney s fees. The
    disposition of these matters is now complete.

The Company has agreed to settle derivative and Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 Section 14(a) claims filed against it
    and certain of its current and former officers and directors
    relating to the Company s
     return-to-vendor, 
    stock option granting and compensation practices. The claims
    were filed by certain shareholders of the Company from the
    second quarter of fiscal 2006 through the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2007. Relief sought included, among others, unspecified
    damages, injunctive relief, disgorgement of profits, benefits
    and compensation obtained by the defendants, cancellation of a
    new stock incentive plan and awards granted under such plan,
    punitive damages, costs and attorneys  fees. Under the
    terms of the settlement, the Company agreed to maintain or adopt
    certain corporate governance practices and to pay
    plaintiff s counsel attorneys  fees and reimbursement
    of expenses in the aggregate amount of $14.5 million. The
    settlement was approved by the Superior Court of Fulton County,
    Georgia, on June 10, 2008. The derivative and
    Section 14(a) actions were dismissed in accordance with the
    settlement, and the disposition of these matters is now complete.

The following actions have been filed against the Company and,
    in some cases, against certain of its current and former
    officers and directors as described below. Although the Company
    cannot predict their outcome, it does not expect these actions,
    individually or together, will have a material adverse effect on
    its consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

In the second and third quarters of fiscal 2006, three
    purported, but uncertified, class actions were filed against the
    Company, The Home Depot FutureBuilder Administrative Committee
    and certain of the Company s current and former directors
    and employees alleging breach of fiduciary duty in violation of
    the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
    ( ERISA ) in connection with the Company s
     return-to-vendor 
    and stock option practices. These actions are before the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia in
    Atlanta. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007, the plaintiffs
    joined together in one case and voluntarily dismissed the other
    two cases. In March 2007, the three original plaintiffs and two
    additional former employees filed a joint amended complaint
    seeking certification as a class action, unspecified damages,
    costs, attorneys  fees and equitable and injunctive relief.
    On September 10, 2007, the Court granted the
    defendants  motion to dismiss and entered judgment for the
    defendants. The plaintiffs appealed the dismissal and, on
    July 31, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Eleventh Circuit reversed the District Court s decision on
    standing, affirmed its finding that the plaintiffs failed to
    exhaust the administrative remedies provided under ERISA, and
    remanded the matter to the District Court for further
    adjudication. The District Court has stayed the matter pending
    plaintiffs  pursuit of their administrative remedies under
    ERISA.

10

Table of Contents   

The Company has reached a tentative settlement, subject to court
    approval, with the plaintiffs in five current lawsuits in the
    Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles in California,
    containing multiple
     class-action 
    allegations that the Company failed to provide meal breaks. The
    complaints were filed by current and former hourly associates
    from the first quarter of 2004 through the fourth quarter of
    2008. Relief sought included unspecified monetary damages,
    injunctive relief or both. Class or collective-action
    certification was not addressed in any of these cases. In the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company established a reserve
    for this settlement, which is recorded in our Consolidated
    Balance Sheets in Other Accrued Expenses.

From the third quarter of 2004 through the fourth quarter of
    2008, current and former associates have filed three pending
    lawsuits in the District Court of New Jersey and the Superior
    Court of the County of Los Angeles, containing multiple
     class-action 
    allegations that the Company misclassified their positions under
    the Fair Labor Standards Act and that they are entitled to
    overtime, or otherwise that they were not paid for work
    performed. The complaints generally seek unspecified monetary
    damages, injunctive relief or both. Final class or
    collective-action certification has yet to be addressed in most
    of these cases. The Company cannot reasonably estimate the
    possible loss which may arise from these lawsuits. These
    matters, if decided adversely to or settled by the Company,
    individually or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse
    effect on its consolidated financial condition or results of
    operations. The Company is vigorously defending itself against
    these actions.

In July 2005, the Company received a grand jury subpoena from
    the United States Attorney s Office in Los Angeles,
    California, seeking documents and information relating to the
    Company s handling, storage and disposal of hazardous
    waste. The Company is cooperating fully with the United States
    Attorney s Office. Although the Company cannot predict the
    outcome of this proceeding, it does not expect any such outcome
    to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial
    condition or results of operations.

On September 26, 2008, the Company received an
    Administrative Order and Notice of Civil Administrative Penalty
    Assessment from the State of New Jersey Department of
    Environmental Protection ( DEP ). The Order and Notice
    seeks a civil penalty for alleged violations of recordkeeping
    requirements pertaining to the use of generators as determined
    by the DEP. The Company is currently in settlement discussions
    with the DEP regarding this matter. Although the Company cannot
    predict the outcome of this proceeding, it does not expect any
    such outcome to have a material adverse effect on its
    consolidated financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.  

Not applicable.

11

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.  Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.  

Since April 19, 1984, our common stock has been listed on
    the New York Stock Exchange, trading under the symbol
     HD.  The Company paid its first cash dividend on
    June 22, 1987, and has paid cash dividends during each
    subsequent quarter. Future dividend payments will depend on the
    Company s earnings, capital requirements, financial
    condition and other factors considered relevant by the Board of
    Directors.

The table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of our
    common stock on the New York Stock Exchange and the quarterly
    cash dividends declared per share of common stock during the
    periods indicated.

As of March 17, 2009, there were approximately
    156,000 shareholders of record and approximately 1,200,000
    additional shareholders holding stock under nominee security
    position listings.

12

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Performance Graph  

This graph depicts the Company s cumulative total
    shareholder returns relative to the performance of the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Composite Stock Index and
    the Standard   Poor s Retail Composite Index for
    the five-year period commencing February 2, 2004, the first
    trading day of fiscal 2004, and ending January 30, 2009,
    the last trading day of fiscal 2008. The graph assumes $100
    invested at the closing price of the Company s common stock
    on the New York Stock Exchange and each index on
    January 30, 2004 and assumes that all dividends were
    reinvested on the date paid. The points on the graph represent
    fiscal year-end amounts based on the last trading day in each
    fiscal year.

13

Table of Contents   

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities  

Since fiscal 2002, the Company has repurchased shares of its
    common stock having a value of approximately $27.3 billion
    pursuant to its share repurchase program. The number and average
    price of shares purchased in each fiscal month of the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2008 are set forth in the table below:

(1)   

These amounts are repurchases pursuant to the Company s
    1997 and 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plans (the
     Plans ). Under the Plans, participants may exercise
    stock options by surrendering shares of common stock that the
    participants already own as payment of the exercise price.
    Participants in the Plans may also surrender shares as payment
    of applicable tax withholding on the vesting of restricted stock
    and deferred share awards. Shares so surrendered by participants
    in the Plans are repurchased pursuant to the terms of the Plans
    and applicable award agreements and not pursuant to publicly
    announced share repurchase programs.  

(2)   

The Company s common stock repurchase program was
    initially announced on July 15, 2002. As of the end of
    fiscal 2008, the Board approved purchases up to
    $40.0 billion. The program does not have a prescribed
    expiration date.  

Sales of
    Unregistered Securities  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company issued 513
    deferred stock units under The Home Depot, Inc. NonEmployee
    Directors  Deferred Stock Compensation Plan pursuant to the
    exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the
    Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The deferred stock units
    were credited to the accounts of such nonemployee directors who
    elected to receive board retainers in the form of deferred stock
    units instead of cash during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.
    The deferred stock units convert to shares of common stock on a
     one-for-one 
    basis following a termination of service as described in this
    plan.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company credited
    53,608 deferred stock units to participant accounts under The
    Home Depot FutureBuilder Restoration Plan pursuant to an
    exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities
    Act of 1933, as amended, for involuntary, non-contributory
    plans. The deferred stock units convert to shares of common
    stock on a
     one-for-one 
    basis following the termination of services as described in this
    plan.

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data.  

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to pages F-1 and F-2 of this report.

14

Table of Contents   

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations.  

Executive
    Summary and Selected Consolidated Statements of Earnings
    Data   

For fiscal year ended February 1, 2009 ( fiscal
    2008 ), we reported Net Earnings of $2.3 billion and
    Diluted Earnings per Share of $1.34 compared to Net Earnings of
    $4.4 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share of $2.37 for
    fiscal year ended February 3, 2008 ( fiscal
    2007 ).

We took action on several strategic items in fiscal 2008
    resulting in total pretax charges of $951 million
    ( Rationalization Charges ). These Rationalization
    Charges included the closing of 15 underperforming stores and
    the removal of approximately 50 stores from our new store
    opening pipeline, the planned exit of our EXPO, THD Design
    Center, Yardbirds and HD Bath businesses and strategic support
    staff reductions. Additionally, fiscal 2008 included a
    $163 million pretax write-down of our investment in HD
    Supply and a $52 million loss from discontinued operations,
    net of tax, for the settlement of working capital from the sale
    of HD Supply.

Fiscal 2008 consisted of 52 weeks compared with
    53 weeks for fiscal 2007. The
    53 rd  week

    added approximately $1.1 billion in Net Sales and increased
    Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations by
    approximately $0.04 for fiscal 2007.

We reported Earnings from Continuing Operations of
    $2.3 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing
    Operations of $1.37 for fiscal 2008 compared to Earnings from
    Continuing Operations of $4.2 billion and Diluted Earnings
    per Share from Continuing Operations of $2.27 for fiscal 2007.
    Excluding the Rationalization Charges and the write-down of our
    investment in HD Supply, Earnings from Continuing Operations
    were $3.0 billion and Diluted Earnings per Share from
    Continuing Operations were $1.78 for fiscal 2008.

Net Sales decreased 7.8% to $71.3 billion for fiscal 2008
    from $77.3 billion for fiscal 2007. Excluding the
    53 rd  week

    of fiscal 2007, Net Sales decreased 6.5% for fiscal 2008. The
    slowdown in the global economy and weakness in the
    U.S. residential construction and home improvement markets
    negatively impacted our Net Sales for fiscal 2008. Our
    comparable store sales declined 8.7% in fiscal 2008 driven by a
    5.5% decline in comparable store customer transactions, as well
    as a 3.3% decline in our average ticket.

In fiscal 2008, despite the continuing difficult economic
    environment, we continued to focus on our core retail business,
    investing in our associates and stores and improving our
    customer service. We have exited non-core businesses,
    restructured support staff and have stopped applying significant
    capital to building new square footage. We remain committed to
    the long-term health of our business through our strategy of
    investing in our retail business through the following five
    priorities:

Associate Engagement   We have taken a number of
    actions to improve associate engagement by changing the way our
    associates are compensated, recognized and rewarded, including
    enhancing our success sharing program, an incentive program for
    our hourly associates driven by individual store performance.
    Success sharing payouts will be received by 83% of our stores
    for the second half of fiscal 2008 compared to 44% of stores for
    the same period last year.

Product Excitement   We continue to work on our
    merchandising transformation by redefining how we run our
    business, implementing a focused bay portfolio approach to
    product assortment and creating new tools to support better
    merchandising decision making. As a result, we saw consumer unit
    share gains against the market in several key merchandising
    classes. For example, carpet, hand tools, power tools, blinds,
    bath fixtures, windows and doors all gained share in fiscal
    2008. Our new lower price campaign is a major component of our
    portfolio strategy. An example is interior paint, where we have
    lowered prices on items such as Behr Flat Premium Plus. Unit
    sales are increasing, and at the same time, our attachment sales
    of related items are going up.

Shopping Environment   We continued our store
    reinvestment by completing an aggressive list of maintenance
    projects, including the completion of our lighting upgrade, as
    well as more complex repair and maintenance activities for
    hundreds of other stores. In addition to programmatic
    maintenance, our integrated field and support center teams have
    rolled out store standards to all stores. We developed and
    piloted common guidelines on store appearance and shopability,
    including standards for front apron merchandising, wingstack
    usage, signage presentation, fixturing and off-shelf product.
    This

15

Table of Contents   

initiative helps reduce the amount of time our store managers
    spend on these issues, removes unnecessary clutter from the
    aisles and implements a basic and consistent approach to store
    appearance.

Product Availability   We continued our supply chain
    transformation to improve product availability. We have five
    RDCs operating that now serve approximately 500 of our stores.
    We plan to open additional RDCs in fiscal 2009 and expect that
    they will serve approximately 1,000 of our stores by the end of
    fiscal 2009. We remain committed to our overall roll-out
    strategy for RDCs, supporting our goal of increasing our central
    distribution penetration.

Own the Pro   We have made significant improvements in
    the services we provide our pro customers, particularly through
    our pro bid room. The pro bid room, which is available in all of
    our stores, allows us to leverage the buying power of The Home
    Depot for the benefit of our pro customers. Our direct ship
    program allows us to have large orders delivered from our
    vendors to the customer s job site directly, reducing
    handling, lead-time and cost while building loyalty with the pro
    customer.

We opened 62 new stores in fiscal 2008, including 6 relocations,
    closed 15 stores as part of our store rationalization actions
    and closed one store in Mexico due to a fire, bringing our total
    store count at the end of fiscal 2008 to 2,274. As of the end of
    fiscal 2008, 262, or approximately 12%, of our stores were
    located in Canada, Mexico and China compared to 243 as of fiscal
    2007.

We generated $5.5 billion of cash flow from operations in
    fiscal 2008. We used this cash flow to repay $2.0 billion
    of short-term debt and other debt obligations, fund
    $1.8 billion in capital expenditures and pay
    $1.5 billion of dividends.

At the end of fiscal 2008, our long-term debt-to-equity ratio
    was 54.4% compared to 64.3% at the end of fiscal 2007. Our
    return on invested capital for continuing operations (computed
    on the average of beginning and ending long-term debt and equity
    for the trailing twelve months) was 9.5% at the end of fiscal
    2008 compared to 13.9% for fiscal 2007. This decrease reflects
    the decline in our operating profit, which includes the impact
    of the Rationalization Charges. Excluding Rationalization
    Charges, our return on invested capital for continuing
    operations was 11.4%.

16

Table of Contents   

We believe the selected sales data, the percentage relationship
    between Net Sales and major categories in the Consolidated
    Statements of Earnings and the percentage change in the dollar
    amounts of each of the items presented below are important in
    evaluating the performance of our business operations. We
    believe the information presented in our Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations provides an understanding of our business, our
    operations and our financial condition.

(1)   

Fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 refer to the fiscal years
    ended February 1, 2009, February 3, 2008 and
    January 28, 2007, respectively. Fiscal years 2008 and 2006
    include 52 weeks; fiscal year 2007 includes
    53 weeks.  

(2)   

The
    53 rd  week

    of fiscal 2007 increased customer transactions by
    20 million, negatively impacted average ticket by $0.05,
    negatively impacted weighted average weekly sales per operating
    store by $3 thousand and increased weighted average sales per
    square foot by $4.77.  

(3)   

Includes Net Sales at locations open greater than
    12 months, including relocated and remodeled stores. Retail
    stores become comparable on the Monday following their
    365 th  day

    of operation. Comparable store sales is intended only as
    supplemental information and is not a substitute for Net Sales
    or Net Earnings presented in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles.  

Results
    of Operations   

For an understanding of the significant factors that influenced
    our performance during the past three fiscal years, the
    following discussion should be read in conjunction with the
    Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements presented in this report.

17

Table of Contents   

Fiscal
    2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007   

Net
    Sales  

Fiscal 2008 consisted of 52 weeks compared to 53 weeks
    in fiscal 2007. Net Sales for fiscal 2008 decreased 7.8% to
    $71.3 billion from $77.3 billion for fiscal 2007. The
    decrease in Net Sales for fiscal 2008 reflects the impact of
    negative comparable store sales and $1.1 billion of Net
    Sales attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2007,
    partially offset by Net Sales of $1.8 billion from new
    stores in fiscal 2008. Comparable store sales decreased 8.7% for
    fiscal 2008 compared to a decrease of 6.7% for fiscal 2007.

There were a number of factors that contributed to our
    comparable store sales decline. The U.S. residential
    construction and home improvement markets continued to be soft
    and consumers were challenged due to higher unemployment and an
    across-the-board tightening of consumer credit availability. We
    saw relative strength in Building Materials, Plumbing,
    Garden/Seasonal and Hardware as comparable store sales in these
    areas were above or at the Company average for fiscal 2008.
    Comparable store sales for Lumber, Flooring, Paint, Electrical,
    Kitchen/Bath and Millwork were below the Company average for
    fiscal 2008. Softness in our big ticket categories negatively
    impacted average ticket, which decreased 3.3% to $55.61 for
    fiscal 2008.

In order to meet our customer service objectives, we
    strategically open stores near market areas served by existing
    stores ( cannibalize ) to enhance service levels, gain
    incremental sales and increase market penetration. Our new
    stores cannibalized approximately 5% of our existing stores as
    of the end of fiscal 2008, which had a negative impact to
    comparable store sales of approximately 1%.

We believe that our sales performance has been, and could
    continue to be, negatively impacted by the level of competition
    that we encounter in various markets. Due to the
    highly-fragmented U.S. home improvement industry, in which
    we estimate our market share is approximately 20%, measuring the
    impact on our sales by our competitors is difficult.

Gross
    Profit  

Gross Profit decreased 7.7% to $24.0 billion for fiscal
    2008 from $26.0 billion for fiscal 2007. Gross Profit as a
    percent of Net Sales was 33.7% for fiscal 2008 compared to 33.6%
    for fiscal 2007, an increase of four basis points. This gross
    margin expansion included $30 million in markdowns taken in
    connection with our Rationalization Charges. Excluding these
    markdowns, our Gross Profit as a percent of Net Sales increased
    eight basis points for fiscal 2008, reflecting our focused bay
    portfolio approach to product assortment.

Operating
    Expenses  

Selling, General and Administrative expenses
    ( SG A ) increased 4.7% to $17.8 billion for
    fiscal 2008 from $17.1 billion for fiscal 2007. As a
    percent of Net Sales, SG A was 25.0% for fiscal 2008
    compared to 22.1% for fiscal 2007. Excluding the Rationalization
    Charges, SG A as a percent of Net Sales for fiscal 2008 was
    23.7%, an increase of approximately 170 basis points over
    the prior year. The increase in SG A as a percent of Net
    Sales for fiscal 2008 was primarily the result of expense
    deleverage in the negative comparable store sales environment,
    as well as an increase of approximately 70 basis points due
    to a higher cost of credit associated with the private label
    credit card program. For fiscal 2008, the penetration of the
    private label credit card sales was 28.1% compared to 29.4% for
    fiscal 2007.

Depreciation and Amortization increased 4.9% to
    $1.8 billion for fiscal 2008 from $1.7 billion for
    fiscal 2007. Depreciation and Amortization as a percent of Net
    Sales was 2.5% for fiscal 2008 and 2.2% for fiscal 2007. The
    increase as a percent of Net Sales was primarily due to sales
    deleverage and the depreciation of our investments in shorter
    lived assets such as store resets and technology.

Operating
    Income  

Operating Income decreased 39.8% to $4.4 billion for fiscal
    2008 from $7.2 billion for fiscal 2007. Operating Income as
    a percent of Net Sales was 6.1% for fiscal 2008 compared to 9.4%
    for fiscal 2007. Excluding the Rationalization Charges,
    Operating Income as a percent of Net Sales was 7.4% for fiscal
    2008.

18

Table of Contents   

Interest
    and Other, net  

In fiscal 2008, we recognized $769 million of Interest and
    Other, net, compared to $622 million in fiscal 2007.
    Interest and Other, net, as a percent of Net Sales was 1.1% for
    fiscal 2008 compared to 0.8% for fiscal 2007. Interest and
    Other, net, reflects a $163 million charge to write-down
    our investment in HD Supply. Excluding this charge, Interest and
    Other, net, as a percent of Net Sales was 0.9% for fiscal 2008.

Provision
    for Income Taxes  

Our combined effective income tax rate for continuing operations
    decreased to 35.6% for fiscal 2008 from 36.4% for fiscal 2007.
    The decrease in our effective income tax rate for fiscal 2008
    reflects lower state and foreign effective tax rates.

Diluted
    Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations  

Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations were $1.37
    for fiscal 2008 and $2.27 for fiscal 2007. Excluding the
    Rationalization Charges and the write-down of our investment in
    HD Supply, Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations
    for fiscal 2008 were $1.78, a decrease of 21.6% from fiscal
    2007. The
    53 rd  week

    in fiscal 2007 increased Diluted Earnings per Share from
    Continuing Operations by approximately $0.04 for fiscal 2007.

Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations were
    favorably impacted by the repurchase of shares of our common
    stock. We repurchased 2.4 million shares for
    $70 million in fiscal 2008 and 293 million shares for
    $10.8 billion in fiscal 2007. Since the inception of the
    repurchase program in 2002, we have repurchased 746 million
    shares of our common stock for a total of $27.3 billion.

Discontinued
    Operations  

On August 30, 2007, the Company closed the sale of HD
    Supply. Discontinued operations for fiscal 2008 consist of a
    loss of $52 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted
    share, recorded to settle net working capital matters arising
    from the sale of HD Supply. Discontinued operations for fiscal
    2007 consist of the results of operations for HD Supply through
    August 30, 2007 and a $4 million loss on the sale of
    HD Supply. Net Sales from discontinued operations were
    $7.4 billion for fiscal 2007 and Earnings from Discontinued
    Operations, net of tax, were $185 million for fiscal 2007.

Non-GAAP Measurements  

To provide clarity, internally and externally, about our
    operating performance for fiscal 2008, we supplemented our
    reporting with non-GAAP measurements to reflect the
    Rationalization Charges as described more fully in Note 2
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the charge to
    write-down our investment in HD Supply as described in
    Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This
    supplemental information should not be considered in isolation
    or as a substitute for the related GAAP measurements. We believe
    these non-GAAP measurements provide management and investors
    with meaningful information to understand and analyze our
    performance. The following reconciles the non-GAAP measurements
    reflecting the Rationalization Charges and investment write-down
    to the reported GAAP information for fiscal 2008:

19

Table of Contents   

Fiscal
    2007 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended January 28, 2007
    ( fiscal 2006 )  

Net
    Sales  

Fiscal 2007 consisted of 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks
    in fiscal 2006. Net Sales for fiscal 2007 decreased 2.1%, or
    $1.7 billion, to $77.3 billion from $79.0 billion
    for fiscal 2006. The decrease in Net Sales for fiscal 2007
    reflects the impact of negative comparable store sales,
    partially offset by Net Sales of $3.7 billion for fiscal
    2007 from new stores and $1.1 billion of Net Sales
    attributable to the additional week in fiscal 2007. Comparable
    store sales decreased 6.7% for fiscal 2007 compared to a
    decrease of 2.8% for fiscal 2006.

There were a number of factors that contributed to our
    comparable store sales decline. The residential construction and
    home improvement markets continued to be soft, especially in
    some of our traditionally strong markets such as Florida,
    California and the Northeast. The combination of softness in our
    big ticket categories and commodity price deflation negatively
    impacted average ticket, which decreased 2.4% to $57.48 for
    fiscal 2007. Our international business performed well in fiscal
    2007. Our Mexican stores posted a double digit comparable store
    sales increase for fiscal 2007, and Canada s comparable
    store sales were also positive. Our new stores cannibalized
    approximately 10% of our existing stores as of the end of fiscal
    2007, which had a negative impact to comparable store sales of
    approximately 1%.

Gross
    Profit  

Gross Profit decreased 2.1% to $26.0 billion for fiscal
    2007 from $26.5 billion for fiscal 2006. Gross Profit as a
    percent of Net Sales was 33.6% for fiscal 2007, flat compared to
    fiscal 2006. Lower deferred interest costs associated with our
    private label credit card financing programs provided a benefit
    of 39 basis points to Gross Profit as a percent of Net
    Sales for fiscal 2007. The deferred interest benefit was mostly
    offset by a higher penetration of lower margin products such as
    appliances and markdowns taken to clear through some seasonal
    items, such as outdoor power equipment and grills, and to allow
    us to transition into new products, such as assembled cabinets
    and kitchen accessories.

Operating
    Expenses  

SG A increased 5.9% to $17.1 billion for fiscal 2007
    from $16.1 billion for fiscal 2006. As a percent of Net
    Sales, SG A was 22.1% for fiscal 2007 compared to 20.4% for
    fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2007, our profit sharing with the
    third-party administrator of the private label credit card
    portfolio was $275 million less than what we received in
    fiscal 2006. We also recognized $88 million of write-offs
    associated with certain future store locations that we
    determined we will not open and $34 million of expense
    associated with closing our 11 Home Depot Landscape Supply
    stores and our Tampa Call Center in fiscal 2007. SG A also
    reflects investments we are making in support of our five key
    priorities. As a percentage of Net Sales, total payroll
    increased by 76 basis points for fiscal 2007 over fiscal
    2006. This reflects investments in store labor and our Master
    Trade Specialists program, the impact of our success sharing
    bonus plans, as well as the negative sales environment. The
    increase in SG A for fiscal 2007 over fiscal 2006 was
    partially offset by $129 million of executive severance
    recorded in fiscal 2006.

Depreciation and Amortization increased 8.1% to
    $1.7 billion for fiscal 2007 from $1.6 billion for
    fiscal 2006. Depreciation and Amortization as a percent of Net
    Sales was 2.2% for fiscal 2007 and 2.0% for fiscal 2006. The
    increase as a percent of Net Sales was primarily due to the
    depreciation of our investments in store modernization and
    technology.

Operating
    Income  

Operating Income decreased 18.3% to $7.2 billion for fiscal
    2007 from $8.9 billion for fiscal 2006. Operating Income as
    a percent of Net Sales was 9.4% for fiscal 2007 compared to
    11.2% for fiscal 2006.

Interest
    and Other, net  

In fiscal 2007, we recognized $622 million of
    net Interest Expense compared to $364 million in
    fiscal 2006. Net Interest Expense as a percent of Net Sales was
    0.8% for fiscal 2007 compared to 0.5% for fiscal 2006. The
    increase was primarily due to additional interest incurred
    related to the December 2006 issuance of $750 million of
    Floating Rate Senior Notes, $1.25 billion of
    5.25% Senior Notes and $3.0 billion of
    5.875% Senior Notes.

20

Table of Contents   

Provision
    for Income Taxes  

Our combined effective income tax rate for continuing operations
    decreased to 36.4% for fiscal 2007 from 38.1% for fiscal 2006.
    The decrease in our effective income tax rate for fiscal 2007
    reflects the impact of a one-time retroactive tax assessment
    received from the Canadian province of Quebec in the second
    quarter of fiscal 2006 and tax benefits recognized upon
    settlement of several state audits and completion of the fiscal
    2003 and 2004 federal tax audits in fiscal 2007.

Diluted
    Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations  

Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations were $2.27
    for fiscal 2007 and $2.55 for fiscal 2006. The
    53 rd  week

    increased Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations
    by approximately $0.04 for fiscal 2007. Diluted Earnings per
    Share from Continuing Operations were favorably impacted in both
    fiscal 2007 and 2006 by the repurchase of shares of our common
    stock.

Discontinued
    Operations  

Discontinued operations consist of the results of operations for
    HD Supply through August 30, 2007 and a loss on the sale of
    HD Supply. Net Sales from discontinued operations were
    $7.4 billion for fiscal 2007 compared to $11.8 billion
    for fiscal 2006. Earnings from Discontinued Operations, net of
    tax, were $185 million for fiscal 2007, compared to
    $495 million for fiscal 2006. Earnings from Discontinued
    Operations for fiscal 2007 include a $4 million loss, net
    of tax, recognized on the sale of the business.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources   

Cash flow generated from operations provides a significant
    source of liquidity. For fiscal 2008, Net Cash Provided by
    Operating Activities was $5.5 billion compared to
    $5.7 billion for fiscal 2007. This change was primarily a
    result of decreased Net Earnings partially offset by improved
    inventory management.

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities for fiscal 2008 was
    $1.7 billion compared to $4.8 billion provided by
    investing activities for fiscal 2007. The change in Net Cash
    Used in/Provided by Investing Activities was primarily the
    result of $8.3 billion of net proceeds from the sale of HD
    Supply in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 partially offset by
    $1.7 billion less in capital expenditures in fiscal 2008
    compared to fiscal 2007.

In fiscal 2008, we spent $1.8 billion on Capital
    Expenditures, allocated as follows: 45% for new stores, 15% for
    merchandising and operations, 12% for maintenance, 11% for core
    technology and 17% for other initiatives. In fiscal 2008, we
    added 62 new stores, including six relocations.

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities for fiscal 2008 was
    $3.7 billion compared with $10.6 billion for fiscal
    2007. The decrease in Net Cash Used in Financing Activities was
    primarily due to the repurchase of 289 million shares of
    our common stock for $10.7 billion in connection with our
    tender offer related to the sale of HD Supply in the third
    quarter of fiscal 2007 and by repayments in fiscal 2008 of
    $1.7 billion of short-term commercial paper and
    $282 million of structured financing debt.

We repurchased 2.4 million shares of our common stock for
    $70 million in fiscal 2008 and a total of 293 million
    shares for $10.8 billion in fiscal 2007, including a
    $10.7 billion tender offer funded primarily using proceeds
    from the sale of HD Supply. Since the inception of our share
    repurchase program in 2002, we have repurchased 746 million
    shares of our common stock for a total of $27.3 billion. As
    of February 1, 2009, $12.7 billion remained under our
    share repurchase authorization. Given current market conditions,
    we have suspended the repurchase program until our business and
    credit markets stabilize.

We have commercial paper programs that allow for borrowings up
    to $3.25 billion. In connection with the programs, we have
    a  back-up 
    credit facility with a consortium of banks for borrowings up to
    $3.25 billion. As of February 1, 2009, there were no
    borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs or
    the related credit facility. The credit facility, which expires
    in December 2010, contains various restrictive covenants, all of
    which we are in compliance. None of the covenants are expected
    to impact our liquidity or capital resources.

21

Table of Contents   

We use capital and operating leases to finance a portion of our
    real estate, including our stores, distribution centers and
    store support centers. The net present value of capital lease
    obligations is reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in
    Long-Term Debt and Current Maturities of Long-Term Debt. In
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the
    operating leases are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance
    Sheets. As of the end of fiscal 2008, our long-term
    debt-to-equity ratio was 54.4% compared to 64.3% at the end of
    fiscal 2007.

As of February 1, 2009, we had $525 million in Cash
    and Short-Term Investments. We believe that our current cash
    position, access to the debt capital markets and cash flow
    generated from operations should be sufficient to enable us to
    complete our capital expenditure programs and required long-term
    debt payments through the next several fiscal years. In
    addition, we have funds available from our commercial paper
    programs and the ability to obtain alternative sources of
    financing for other requirements. We intend to use cash flow
    generated by operations to repay $1.8 billion in debt
    coming due in fiscal 2009.

During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we entered into interest rate
    swaps, accounted for as fair value hedges, with notional amounts
    of $3.0 billion, that swapped fixed rate interest on our
    $3.0 billion 5.40% Senior Notes for variable rate
    interest equal to LIBOR plus 60 to 149 basis points. In
    fiscal 2008, we received $56 million to settle these swaps,
    which will be amortized to reduce Interest Expense over the
    remaining term of the debt.

At February 1, 2009, we had outstanding an interest rate
    swap, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, with a notional amount
    of $750 million that swaps variable rate interest on our
    $750 million Floating Rate Senior Notes for fixed rate
    interest at 4.36% that expires on December 16, 2009. At
    February 1, 2009, the approximate fair value of this
    agreement was a liability of $21 million, which is the
    estimated amount we would have paid to settle this interest rate
    swap agreement.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements  

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
    operating leases for a portion of our real estate and other
    assets are not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Contractual
    Obligations  

The following table summarizes our significant contractual
    obligations as of February 1, 2009 (amounts in millions):

(1)   

Excludes present value of capital lease obligations of
    $417 million. Includes $6.8 billion of interest
    payments and $2 million, net, of unamortized non-cash
    items.  

(2)   

Includes $949 million of imputed interest.  

(3)   

Purchase obligations include all legally binding contracts
    such as firm commitments for inventory purchases, utility
    purchases, capital expenditures, software acquisition and
    license commitments and legally binding service contracts.
    Purchase orders that are not binding agreements are excluded
    from the table above.  

(4)   

Excludes $677 million of noncurrent unrecognized tax
    benefits due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash
    payments related to the FIN 48 liabilities.  

22

Table of Contents   

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

Our exposure to market risk results primarily from fluctuations
    in interest rates. Although we have international operating
    entities, our exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuations is
    not significant to our financial condition and results of
    operations. Our primary objective for entering into derivative
    instruments is to manage our exposure to interest rates, as well
    as to maintain an appropriate mix of fixed and variable rate
    debt.

As of February 1, 2009 we had, net of discounts,
    $11.0 billion of Senior Notes outstanding. The market
    values of the publicly traded Senior Notes as of
    February 1, 2009, were approximately $10.0 billion.

Impact of
    Inflation, Deflation and Changing Prices  

We have experienced inflation and deflation related to our
    purchase of certain commodity products. We do not believe that
    changing prices for commodities have had a material effect on
    our Net Sales or results of operations. Although we cannot
    precisely determine the overall effect of inflation and
    deflation on operations, we do not believe inflation and
    deflation have had a material effect on our results of
    operations.

Critical
    Accounting Policies   

Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note 1
    to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following
    discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies,
    which are those that are both important to the portrayal of our
    financial condition and results of operations and that require
    significant judgment or use of complex estimates.

Revenue
    Recognition  

We recognize revenue, net of estimated returns and sales tax, at
    the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise or
    receives services. We estimate the liability for sales returns
    based on our historical return levels. We believe that our
    estimate for sales returns is an accurate reflection of future
    returns. We have never recorded a significant adjustment to our
    estimated liability for sales returns. However, if these
    estimates are significantly below the actual amounts, our sales
    could be adversely impacted. When we receive payment from
    customers before the customer has taken possession of the
    merchandise or the service has been performed, the amount
    received is recorded as Deferred Revenue in the accompanying
    Consolidated Balance Sheets until the sale or service is
    complete. We also record Deferred Revenue for the sale of gift
    cards and recognize this revenue upon the redemption of gift
    cards in Net Sales.

Merchandise
    Inventories  

Our Merchandise Inventories are stated at the lower of cost
     (first-in, 
    first-out) or market, with approximately 82% valued under the
    retail inventory method and the remainder under a cost method.
    Retailers like The Home Depot, with many different types of
    merchandise at low unit cost and a large number of transactions,
    frequently use the retail inventory method. Under the retail
    inventory method, Merchandise Inventories are stated at cost,
    which is determined by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to the
    ending retail value of inventories. As our inventory retail
    value is adjusted regularly to reflect market conditions, our
    inventory valued under the retail method approximates the lower
    of cost or market. We evaluate our inventory valued under a cost
    method at the end of each quarter to ensure that it is carried
    at the lower of cost or market. The valuation allowance for
    Merchandise Inventories valued under a cost method was not
    material to our Consolidated Financial Statements as of the end
    of fiscal 2008 or 2007.

Independent physical inventory counts or cycle counts are taken
    on a regular basis in each store and distribution center to
    ensure that amounts reflected in the accompanying Consolidated
    Financial Statements for Merchandise Inventories are properly
    stated. During the period between physical inventory counts in
    our stores, we accrue for estimated losses related to shrink on
    a
     store-by-store 
    basis. Shrink (or in the case of excess inventory,
     swell ) is the difference between the recorded amount
    of inventory and the physical inventory. Shrink may occur due to
    theft, loss, inaccurate records for the receipt of inventory or
    deterioration of goods, among other things. We estimate shrink
    as a percent of Net Sales using the average shrink results from
    the previous two physical inventories. The estimates are
    evaluated quarterly and adjusted based on recent shrink results
    and current trends in the business. Actual shrink results did
    not vary materially from estimated amounts for fiscal 2008, 2007
    or 2006.

23

Table of Contents   

Self-Insurance  

We are self-insured for certain losses related to general
    liability, product liability, automobile, workers 
    compensation and medical claims. Our liability represents an
    estimate of the ultimate cost of claims incurred as of the
    balance sheet date. The estimated liability is not discounted
    and is established based upon analysis of historical data and
    actuarial estimates, and is reviewed by management and
    third-party actuaries on a quarterly basis to ensure that the
    liability is appropriate. While we believe these estimates are
    reasonable based on the information currently available, if
    actual trends, including the severity or frequency of claims,
    medical cost inflation, or fluctuations in premiums, differ from
    our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted.
    Actual results related to these types of claims did not vary
    materially from estimated amounts for fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.

Vendor
    Allowances  

Vendor allowances primarily consist of volume rebates that are
    earned as a result of attaining certain purchase levels and
    advertising co-op allowances for the promotion of vendors 
    products that are typically based on guaranteed minimum amounts
    with additional amounts being earned for attaining certain
    purchase levels. These vendor allowances are accrued as earned,
    with those allowances received as a result of attaining certain
    purchase levels accrued over the incentive period based on
    estimates of purchases. We believe that our estimate of vendor
    allowances earned based on expected volume of purchases over the
    incentive period is an accurate reflection of the ultimate
    allowance to be received from our vendors.

Volume rebates and advertising co-op allowances earned are
    initially recorded as a reduction in Merchandise Inventories and
    a subsequent reduction in Cost of Sales when the related product
    is sold. Certain advertising co-op allowances that are
    reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs
    incurred to promote vendors  products are recorded as an
    offset against advertising expense in SG A.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets  

We evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets when
    management makes the decision to relocate or close a store or
    other location, or when circumstances indicate the carrying
    amount of an asset may not be recoverable. A store s assets
    are evaluated for impairment by comparing its undiscounted cash
    flows with its carrying value. If the carrying value is greater
    than the undiscounted cash flows, a provision is made to write
    down the related assets to fair value if the carrying value is
    greater than the fair value. We make critical assumptions and
    estimates in completing impairment assessments of long-lived
    assets. While we believe these estimates are reasonable based on
    the information currently available, if actual results differ
    from our estimates, our results of operations could be impacted.
    Impairment losses are recorded as a component of SG A in
    the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. When a
    location closes, we also recognize in SG A the net present
    value of future lease obligations, less estimated sublease
    income.

In fiscal 2008, we recorded $580 million of asset
    impairments and $252 million of lease obligation costs as
    part of our Rationalization Charges. See Note 2 for more
    details on the Rationalization Charges. We also recorded
    impairments on the other closings and relocations in the
    ordinary course of business, which were not material to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements  

In June 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) issued FASB Staff Position ( FSP )
    Emerging Issues Task Force
     No. 03-6-1, 
     Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based
    Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities 
     ( FSP-EITF 03-6-1 ). 
     FSP-EITF 03-6-1 
    clarifies that unvested share-based payment awards that contain
    nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents
    (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and are to
    be included in the computation of earnings per share under the
    two-class method.
     FSP-EITF 03-6-1 
    is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods
    within those years.
     FSP-EITF 03-6-1 
    is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated
    financial statements.

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to Item 7.  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
    of this report.

24

Table of Contents   

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.  

Management s
    Responsibility for Financial Statements  

The financial statements presented in this Annual Report have
    been prepared with integrity and objectivity and are the
    responsibility of the management of The Home Depot, Inc. These
    financial statements have been prepared in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and properly
    reflect certain estimates and judgments based upon the best
    available information.

The financial statements of the Company have been audited by
    KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm.
    Their accompanying report is based upon an audit conducted in
    accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States).

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, consisting solely
    of outside directors, meets five times a year with the
    independent registered public accounting firm, the internal
    auditors and representatives of management to discuss auditing
    and financial reporting matters. In addition, a telephonic
    meeting is held prior to each quarterly earnings release. The
    Audit Committee retains the independent registered public
    accounting firm and regularly reviews the internal accounting
    controls, the activities of the independent registered public
    accounting firm and internal auditors and the financial
    condition of the Company. Both the Company s independent
    registered public accounting firm and the internal auditors have
    free access to the Audit Committee.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended. Under the supervision and with the participation of our
    management, including our chief executive officer and chief
    financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
    as of February 1, 2009 based on the framework in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO). Based on our evaluation, our management
    concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of February 1, 2009 in providing reasonable
    assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
    the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
    as of February 1, 2009 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an
    independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in
    their report which is included on page 26 in this
     Form 10-K. 

/s/  Francis S.
    Blake  

/s/  Carol B.
    Tom   

Francis S. Blake 

Carol B. Tom  

Chairman   

Chief Financial Officer   

Chief Executive Officer 

Executive Vice President   Corporate Services 

25

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
    The Home Depot, Inc.:

We have audited The Home Depot Inc. s internal control over
    financial reporting as of February 1, 2009, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Home Depot
    Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective
    internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment
    of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report
    on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility
    is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control
    over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
    opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, The Home Depot, Inc. maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of February 1, 2009, based on criteria established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    Consolidated Balance Sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and
    subsidiaries as of February 1, 2009 and February 3,
    2008, and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings,
    Stockholders  Equity and Comprehensive Income, and Cash
    Flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period
    ended February 1, 2009, and our report dated March 26,
    2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated
    financial statements.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

March 26, 2009

26

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
    The Home Depot, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of
    The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 1,
    2009 and February 3, 2008, and the related Consolidated
    Statements of Earnings, Stockholders  Equity and
    Comprehensive Income, and Cash Flows for each of the fiscal
    years in the three-year period ended February 1, 2009.
    These Consolidated Financial Statements are the responsibility
    of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to
    express an opinion on these Consolidated Financial Statements
    based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements referred
    to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
    position of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
    February 1, 2009 and February 3, 2008, and the results
    of their operations and their cash flows for each of the fiscal
    years in the three-year period ended February 1, 2009, in
    conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

As discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial
    statements, effective January 29, 2007, the beginning of
    the fiscal year ended February 3, 2008, the Company adopted
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes .

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), The
    Home Depot, Inc. s internal control over financial
    reporting as of February 1, 2009, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
    dated March 26, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion on
    the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Atlanta, Georgia

March 26, 2009

27

Table of Contents   

THE HOME
    DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

28

Table of Contents   

THE HOME
    DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

29

Table of Contents   

THE HOME
    DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  

EQUITY
    AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

30

Table of Contents   

THE HOME
    DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. 

31

Table of Contents   

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

1.       

SUMMARY
    OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Business,
    Consolidation and Presentation  

The Home Depot, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the
     Company ) operate The Home Depot stores, which are
    full-service, warehouse-style stores averaging approximately
    105,000 square feet in size. The stores stock approximately
    30,000 to 40,000 different kinds of building materials, home
    improvement supplies and lawn and garden products that are sold
    to do-it-yourself customers, do-it-for-me customers, home
    improvement contractors, tradespeople and building maintenance
    professionals. At the end of fiscal 2008, the Company was
    operating 2,274 stores, which included 1,971 The Home Depot
    stores, 34 EXPO stores, five Yardbirds stores and two THD Design
    Center stores in the United States, including the Commonwealth
    of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands
    and Guam ( U.S. ), 176 The Home Depot stores in
    Canada, 74 The Home Depot stores in Mexico and 12 The Home Depot
    stores in China. On January 26, 2009, the Company announced
    plans to close the EXPO, THD Design Center and Yardbirds stores
    as part of the Company s focus on its core business. The
    Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the
    Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant
    intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Fiscal
    Year  

The Company s fiscal year is a 52- or 53-week period ending
    on the Sunday nearest to January 31. Fiscal year ended
    February 1, 2009 ( fiscal 2008 ) includes
    52 weeks, fiscal year ended February 3, 2008
    ( fiscal 2007 ) includes 53 weeks and fiscal year
    ended January 28, 2007 ( fiscal 2006 ) includes
    52 weeks.

Use of
    Estimates  

Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and
    assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities,
    the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and
    reported amounts of revenues and expenses in preparing these
    financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
    generally accepted in the U.S. Actual results could differ
    from these estimates.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

The carrying amounts of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Receivables,
    Short-Term Debt and Accounts Payable approximate fair value due
    to the short-term maturities of these financial instruments. The
    fair value of the Company s investments is discussed under
    the caption  Short-Term Investments  in this
    Note 1. The fair value of the Company s Long-Term Debt
    is discussed in Note 6.

Cash
    Equivalents  

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased
    with original maturities of three months or less to be cash
    equivalents. The Company s Cash Equivalents are carried at
    fair market value and consist primarily of high-grade commercial
    paper, money market funds and U.S. government agency
    securities.

Short-Term
    Investments  

Short-Term Investments are recorded at fair value based on
    current market rates and are classified as available-for-sale.

Accounts
    Receivable  

The Company has an agreement with a third-party service provider
    who directly extends credit to customers, manages the
    Company s private label credit card program and owns the
    related receivables. We evaluated the third-party entities
    holding the receivables under the program and concluded that
    they should not be consolidated by the Company in accordance
    with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 46(R),
     Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.  The
    agreement with the third-party service provider expires in 2018,
    with the Company having the option, but no obligation, to
    purchase the receivables at the end of the agreement. The
    deferred

32

Table of Contents   

interest charges incurred by the Company for its deferred
    financing programs offered to its customers are included in Cost
    of Sales. The interchange fees charged to the Company for the
    customers  use of the cards and the profit sharing with the
    third-party administrator are included in Selling, General and
    Administrative expenses ( SG A ). The sum of the
    three is referred to by the Company as  the cost of
    credit  of the private label credit card program.

In addition, certain subsidiaries of the Company extend credit
    directly to customers in the ordinary course of business. The
    receivables due from customers were $37 million and
    $57 million as of February 1, 2009 and
    February 3, 2008, respectively. The Company s
    valuation reserve related to accounts receivable was not
    material to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company
    as of the end of fiscal 2008 or 2007.

Merchandise
    Inventories  

The majority of the Company s Merchandise Inventories are
    stated at the lower of cost
     (first-in, 
    first-out) or market, as determined by the retail inventory
    method. As the inventory retail value is adjusted regularly to
    reflect market conditions, the inventory valued using the retail
    method approximates the lower of cost or market. Certain
    subsidiaries, including retail operations in Canada, Mexico and
    China, and distribution centers record Merchandise Inventories
    at the lower of cost or market, as determined by a cost method.
    These Merchandise Inventories represent approximately 18% of the
    total Merchandise Inventories balance. The Company evaluates the
    inventory valued using a cost method at the end of each quarter
    to ensure that it is carried at the lower of cost or market. The
    valuation allowance for Merchandise Inventories valued under a
    cost method was not material to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements of the Company as of the end of fiscal 2008 or 2007.

Independent physical inventory counts or cycle counts are taken
    on a regular basis in each store and distribution center to
    ensure that amounts reflected in the accompanying Consolidated
    Financial Statements for Merchandise Inventories are properly
    stated. During the period between physical inventory counts in
    stores, the Company accrues for estimated losses related to
    shrink on a
     store-by-store 
    basis based on historical shrink results and current trends in
    the business. Shrink (or in the case of excess inventory,
     swell ) is the difference between the recorded amount
    of inventory and the physical inventory. Shrink may occur due to
    theft, loss, inaccurate records for the receipt of inventory or
    deterioration of goods, among other things.

Income
    Taxes  

The Company provides for federal, state and foreign income taxes
    currently payable, as well as for those deferred due to timing
    differences between reporting income and expenses for financial
    statement purposes versus tax purposes. Federal, state and
    foreign tax benefits are recorded as a reduction of income
    taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for
    the future tax consequences attributable to temporary
    differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
    existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases.
    Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted
    income tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
    years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
    recovered or settled. The effect of a change in income tax rates
    is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes
    the enactment date.

The Company and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated
    U.S. federal income tax return.
     Non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    and certain U.S. subsidiaries, which are consolidated for
    financial reporting purposes, are not eligible to be included in
    the Company s consolidated U.S. federal income tax
    return. Separate provisions for income taxes have been
    determined for these entities. The Company intends to reinvest
    substantially all of the unremitted earnings of its
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    and postpone their remittance indefinitely. Accordingly, no
    provision for U.S. income taxes for these
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    was recorded in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
    Earnings.

Depreciation
    and Amortization  

The Company s Buildings, Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment
    are recorded at cost and depreciated using the straight-line
    method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold
    Improvements are amortized using the straight-line method

33

Table of Contents   

over the original term of the lease or the useful life of the
    improvement, whichever is shorter. The Company s Property
    and Equipment is depreciated using the following estimated
    useful lives:

Capitalized
    Software Costs  

The Company capitalizes certain costs related to the acquisition
    and development of software and amortizes these costs using the
    straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the
    software, which is three to six years. These costs are included
    in Furniture, Fixtures and Equipment in the accompanying
    Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain development costs not
    meeting the criteria for capitalization are expensed as incurred.

Revenues  

The Company recognizes revenue, net of estimated returns and
    sales tax, at the time the customer takes possession of
    merchandise or receives services. The liability for sales
    returns is estimated based on historical return levels. When the
    Company receives payment from customers before the customer has
    taken possession of the merchandise or the service has been
    performed, the amount received is recorded as Deferred Revenue
    in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets until the sale
    or service is complete. The Company also records Deferred
    Revenue for the sale of gift cards and recognizes this revenue
    upon the redemption of gift cards in Net Sales. Gift card
    breakage income is recognized based upon historical redemption
    patterns and represents the balance of gift cards for which the
    Company believes the likelihood of redemption by the customer is
    remote. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Company
    recognized $37 million, $36 million and
    $33 million, respectively, of gift card breakage income.
    This income is recorded as other income and is included in the
    accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings as a reduction
    in SG A.

Services
    Revenue  

Net Sales include services revenue generated through a variety
    of installation, home maintenance and professional service
    programs. In these programs, the customer selects and purchases
    material for a project and the Company provides or arranges
    professional installation. These programs are offered through
    the Company s stores. Under certain programs, when the
    Company provides or arranges the installation of a project and
    the subcontractor provides material as part of the installation,
    both the material and labor are included in services revenue.
    The Company recognizes this revenue when the service for the
    customer is complete.

All payments received prior to the completion of services are
    recorded in Deferred Revenue in the accompanying Consolidated
    Balance Sheets. Services revenue was $3.1 billion,
    $3.5 billion and $3.8 billion for fiscal 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively.

Self-Insurance  

The Company is self-insured for certain losses related to
    general liability, product liability, automobile, workers 
    compensation and medical claims. The expected ultimate cost for
    claims incurred as of the balance sheet date is not discounted
    and is recognized as a liability. The expected ultimate cost of
    claims is estimated based upon analysis of historical data and
    actuarial estimates.

Prepaid
    Advertising  

Television and radio advertising production costs, along with
    media placement costs, are expensed when the advertisement first
    appears. Included in Other Current Assets in the accompanying
    Consolidated Balance Sheets are $18 million and
    $31 million, respectively, at the end of fiscal 2008 and
    2007 relating to prepayments of production costs for print and
    broadcast advertising as well as sponsorship promotions.

34

Table of Contents   

Vendor
    Allowances  

Vendor allowances primarily consist of volume rebates that are
    earned as a result of attaining certain purchase levels and
    advertising co-op allowances for the promotion of vendors 
    products that are typically based on guaranteed minimum amounts
    with additional amounts being earned for attaining certain
    purchase levels. These vendor allowances are accrued as earned,
    with those allowances received as a result of attaining certain
    purchase levels accrued over the incentive period based on
    estimates of purchases.

Volume rebates and certain advertising co-op allowances earned
    are initially recorded as a reduction in Merchandise Inventories
    and a subsequent reduction in Cost of Sales when the related
    product is sold. Certain advertising co-op allowances that are
    reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs
    incurred to promote vendors  products are recorded as an
    offset against advertising expense. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, gross advertising expense was $1.0 billion,
    $1.2 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, which was
    recorded in SG A. Specific, incremental and identifiable
    advertising co-op allowances were $107 million,
    $120 million and $83 million for fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively, and were recorded as an offset to
    advertising expense in SG A.

Cost of
    Sales  

Cost of Sales includes the actual cost of merchandise sold and
    services performed, the cost of transportation of merchandise
    from vendors to the Company s stores, locations or
    customers, the operating cost of the Company s sourcing and
    distribution network and the cost of deferred interest programs
    offered through the Company s private label credit card
    program.

The cost of handling and shipping merchandise from the
    Company s stores, locations or distribution centers to the
    customer is classified as SG A. The cost of shipping and
    handling, including internal costs and payments to third
    parties, classified as SG A was $501 million,
    $571 million and $545 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets  

Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair
    value of net assets acquired. The Company does not amortize
    goodwill, but does assess the recoverability of goodwill in the
    third quarter of each fiscal year by determining whether the
    fair value of each reporting unit supports its carrying value.
    The fair values of the Company s identified reporting units
    were estimated using the present value of expected future
    discounted cash flows.

The Company amortizes the cost of other intangible assets over
    their estimated useful lives, which range from 1 to
    20 years, unless such lives are deemed indefinite.
    Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested in the third
    quarter of each fiscal year for impairment. The Company recorded
    no impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets
    for fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets  

The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets
    when management makes the decision to relocate or close a store
    or other location, or when circumstances indicate the carrying
    amount of an asset may not be recoverable. A store s assets
    are evaluated for impairment by comparing its undiscounted cash
    flows with its carrying value. If the carrying value is greater
    than the undiscounted cash flows, a provision is made to write
    down the related assets to fair value if the carrying value is
    greater than the fair value. Impairment losses are recorded as a
    component of SG A in the accompanying Consolidated
    Statements of Earnings. When a location closes, the Company also
    recognizes in SG A the net present value of future lease
    obligations, less estimated sublease income.

In fiscal 2008, the Company recorded $580 million of asset
    impairments and $252 million of lease obligation costs as
    part of its Rationalization Charges. See Note 2 for more
    details on the Rationalization Charges. The Company also
    recorded impairments on the other closings and relocations in
    the ordinary course of business, which were not material to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.

35

Table of Contents   

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

Effective January 30, 2006, the Company adopted the fair
    value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 123(R),
     Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS 123(R) ),
    using the modified prospective transition method. Under the
    modified prospective transition method, the Company began
    expensing unvested options granted prior to fiscal 2003 in
    addition to continuing to recognize stock-based compensation
    expense for all share-based payments awarded since the adoption
    of SFAS 123  Accounting for Stock-Based
    Compensation  in fiscal 2003. During fiscal 2006, the
    Company recognized additional stock compensation expense of
    approximately $40 million as a result of the adoption of
    SFAS 123(R). Results of prior periods have not been
    restated.

The per share weighted average fair value of stock options
    granted during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $6.46, $9.45 and
    $11.88, respectively. The fair value of these options was
    determined at the date of grant using the Black- Scholes
    option-pricing model with the following assumptions:

Derivatives  

The Company uses derivative financial instruments from time to
    time in the management of its interest rate exposure on
    long-term debt and its exposure on foreign currency
    fluctuations. The Company accounts for its derivative financial
    instruments in accordance with SFAS No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities. 

Comprehensive
    Income  

Comprehensive Income includes Net Earnings adjusted for certain
    revenues, expenses, gains and losses that are excluded from Net
    Earnings under accounting principles generally accepted in the
    U.S. Adjustments to Net Earnings and Accumulated Other
    Comprehensive Income consist primarily of foreign currency
    translation adjustments.

Foreign
    Currency Translation  

Assets and Liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are
    translated into U.S. dollars at the current rate of
    exchange on the last day of the reporting period. Revenues and
    Expenses are generally translated using average exchange rates
    for the period and equity transactions are translated using the
    actual rate on the day of the transaction.

Segment
    Information  

The Company operates within a single reportable segment
    primarily within North America. Net Sales for the Company
    outside of the U.S. were $7.4 billion for fiscal 2008
    and 2007 and were $6.3 billion for fiscal 2006. Long-lived
    assets outside of the U.S. totaled $2.8 billion and
    $3.1 billion as of February 1, 2009 and
    February 3, 2008, respectively.

2.       

RATIONALIZATION
    CHARGES  

In fiscal 2008, the Company reduced its square footage growth
    plans to improve free cash flow, provide stronger returns for
    the Company and invest in its existing stores to continue
    improving the customer experience. As a result of this store
    rationalization plan, the Company determined that it would no
    longer pursue the opening of approximately 50 U.S. stores
    that had been in its new store pipeline. The Company expects to
    dispose of or sublet these pipeline locations over varying
    periods. The Company also closed 15 underperforming
    U.S. stores in the second quarter of fiscal 2008, and the
    Company expects to dispose of or sublet those locations over
    varying periods.

Also in fiscal 2008, the Company announced that it would exit
    its EXPO, THD Design Center, Yardbirds and HD Bath businesses in
    order to focus on its core The Home Depot stores. The Company
    expects to close 34 EXPO Design Center

36

Table of Contents   

stores, five Yardbirds stores, two THD Design Center stores and
    seven HD Bath locations in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, and
    expects to dispose or sublet those locations over varying
    periods. These steps will impact approximately 5,000 associates
    in those locations, their support functions and their
    distribution centers.

The Company also restructured its support functions to better
    align the Company s cost structure with the current
    economic environment. These actions impacted approximately 2,000
    associates.

The Company recognized $951 million in total pretax charges
    for fiscal 2008 related to these actions. The significant
    components of the total expected charges and charges incurred to
    date are as follows (in millions):

Inventory markdown costs in Other are included in Cost of Sales
    in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings and
    costs related to asset impairments, lease obligations, severance
    and other are included in SG A expenses. Asset impairment
    charges, including contractual costs to complete certain assets,
    were determined based on fair market value using market data for
    each individual property. Lease obligations represent the
    present value of contractually obligated rental payments offset
    by estimated sublet income, and therefore are not generally
    incremental uses of cash.

Activity related to Rationalization Charges for fiscal 2008 was
    as follows (in millions):

3.       

CHANGE IN
    ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLE  

During fiscal 2008, the Company implemented a new enterprise
    resource planning ( ERP ) system, including a new
    inventory system, for its retail operations in Canada. Along
    with this implementation, the Company changed its method of
    accounting for Merchandise Inventories for its retail operations
    in Canada from the lower of cost
     (first-in, 
    first-out) or market, as determined by the retail inventory
    method, to the lower of cost or market using a weighted-average
    cost method. As of the end of fiscal 2008, the implementation of
    the new inventory system and related conversion to the
    weighted-average cost method for Canadian retail operations was
    complete.

The new ERP system allows the Company to utilize the
    weighted-average cost method, which the Company believes will
    result in greater precision in the costing of inventories and a
    better matching of cost of sales with revenue generated. The
    effect of the change on the Merchandise Inventories and Retained
    Earnings balances was not material. Prior to the inventory
    system conversion, the Company could not determine the impact of
    the change to the weighted-average cost method and therefore,
    could not retroactively apply the change to periods prior to
    fiscal 2008.

4.       

DISPOSITION
    AND ACQUISITIONS  

On August 30, 2007, the Company closed the sale of HD
    Supply. The Company received $8.3 billion of net proceeds
    for the sale of HD Supply and recognized a $4 million loss,
    net of tax, in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2008, the Company
    finalized working capital adjustments related to the sale and
    recorded a loss of $52 million, net of tax.

37

Table of Contents   

In connection with the sale, the Company purchased a 12.5%
    equity interest in the newly formed HD Supply for
    $325 million. In fiscal 2008, the Company determined its
    12.5% equity interest in HD Supply was impaired and recorded a
    $163 million charge to write-down the investment, which is
    included in Interest and Other, net, in the accompanying
    Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

Also in connection with the sale, the Company guaranteed a
    $1.0 billion senior secured loan ( guaranteed
    loan ) of HD Supply. The fair value of the guarantee, which
    was determined to be approximately $16 million, is recorded
    as a liability of the Company and included in Other Long-Term
    Liabilities. The guaranteed loan has a term of five years and
    the Company is responsible for up to $1.0 billion and any
    unpaid interest in the event of non-payment by HD Supply. The
    guaranteed loan is collateralized by certain assets of HD Supply.

In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
    No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
    Long-Lived Assets  ( SFAS 144 ), the Company
    reclassified the results of HD Supply as discontinued operations
    in its Consolidated Statements of Earnings for all periods
    presented.

The following table presents Net Sales and Earnings of HD Supply
    through August 30, 2007 and the losses on disposition which
    have been classified as discontinued operations in the
    Consolidated Statements of Earnings for fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006 (amounts in millions):

The Company made no acquisitions during fiscal 2008. The
    aggregate purchase price for acquisitions in fiscal 2007 and
    2006 was $25 million and $4.5 billion, respectively,
    including $3.5 billion for Hughes Supply in fiscal 2006.
    The Company recorded Goodwill related to the HD Supply
    businesses of $20 million and $2.8 billion for fiscal
    2007 and 2006, respectively, and recorded no Goodwill related to
    its retail businesses for fiscal 2007 and $229 million for
    fiscal 2006.

In fiscal 2006, the Company adopted Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 108,  Considering the Effects of
    Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in
    Current Year Financial Statements 
    ( SAB 108 ). SAB 108 addresses the process
    of quantifying prior year financial statement misstatements and
    their impact on current year financial statements. The
    provisions of SAB 108 allowed companies to report the
    cumulative effect of correcting immaterial prior year
    misstatements, based on the Company s historical method for
    evaluating misstatements, by adjusting the opening balance of
    retained earnings in the financial statements of the year of
    adoption rather than amending previously filed reports. In
    accordance with SAB 108, the Company adjusted beginning
    Retained Earnings for fiscal 2006 in the accompanying
    Consolidated Financial Statements for the items described below.
    The Company does not consider these adjustments to have a
    material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
    statements in any of the prior years affected.

Historical
    Stock Option Practices  

During fiscal 2006, the Company requested that its Board of
    Directors review its historical stock option granting practices.
    A subcommittee of the Audit Committee undertook the review with
    the assistance of independent outside counsel, and it has
    completed its review. The principal findings of the 2006 review
    were as follows:

All options granted in the period from 2002 through the present
    had an exercise price based on the market price of the
    Company s stock on the date the grant was approved by the
    Board of Directors or an officer acting pursuant to delegated
    authority. During this period, the stock administration
    department corrected

38

Table of Contents   

administrative errors retroactively and without separate
    approvals. The administrative errors included inadvertent
    omissions of grantees from lists that were approved previously
    and miscalculations of the number of options granted to
    particular employees on approved lists.

All options granted from December 1, 2000 through the end
    of 2001 had an exercise price based on the market price of the
    Company s stock on the date of a meeting of the Board of
    Directors or some other date selected without the benefit of
    hindsight. The February 2001 annual grant was not finally
    allocated to recipients until several weeks after the grant was
    approved. During this period, the stock administration
    department also corrected administrative errors retroactively
    and without separate approvals as in the period 2002 to the
    present.

For annual option grants and certain quarterly option grants
    from 1981 through November 2000, the stated grant date was
    routinely earlier than the actual date on which the grants were
    approved by a committee of the Board of Directors. In almost
    every instance, the stock price on the apparent approval date
    was higher than the price on the stated grant date. The
    backdating occurred for grants at all levels of the Company.
    Management personnel, who have since left the Company, generally
    followed a practice of reviewing closing prices for a prior
    period and selecting a date with a low stock price to increase
    the value of the options to employees on lists of grantees
    subsequently approved by a committee of the Board of Directors.

The annual option grants in 1994 through 2000, as well as many
    quarterly grants during this period, were not finally allocated
    among the recipients until several weeks after the stated grant
    date. Because of the absence of records prior to 1994, it is
    unclear whether allocations also postdated the selected grant
    dates from 1981 through 1993. Moreover, for many of these annual
    and quarterly grants from 1981 through December 2000, there is
    insufficient documentation to determine with certainty when the
    grants were actually authorized by a committee of the Board of
    Directors. Finally, the Company s stock administration
    department also retroactively added employees to lists of
    approved grantees, or changed the number of options granted to
    specific employees, without authorization of the Board of
    Directors or a board committee, to correct administrative errors.

Numerous option grants to
     rank-and-file 
    employees were made pursuant to delegations of authority that
    may not have been effective under Delaware law.

In numerous instances, and primarily prior to 2003,
    beneficiaries of grants who were required to report them to the
    SEC failed to do so in a timely manner or at all.

The subcommittee concluded that there was no intentional
    wrongdoing by any current member of the Company s
    management team or its Board of Directors.

The Company believes that because of these errors, it had
    unrecorded expense over the affected period (1981 through
    2005) of $227 million in the aggregate, including
    related tax items. In accordance with the provisions of
    SAB 108, the Company decreased beginning Retained Earnings
    for fiscal 2006 by $227 million within the accompanying
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

As previously disclosed, the staff of the SEC began in June 2006
    an informal inquiry into the Company s stock option
    practices, and the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the
    Southern District of New York also requested information on the
    subject. On December 10, 2008, the SEC stated in a letter
    to the Company that it did not intend to take any action as a
    result of the inquiry. The SEC matter is therefore now closed,
    and the Company has not received any communication from the
    Office of the U.S. Attorney since 2006.

39

Table of Contents   

The Company does not believe that the effect of the stock option
    adjustment was material, either quantitatively or qualitatively,
    in any of the years covered by the review of these items. In
    reaching that determination, the following quantitative measures
    were considered (dollars in millions):

Vendor
    Credits  

The Company records credits against vendor invoices for various
    issues related to the receipt of goods. The Company previously
    identified that it was not recording an allowance for subsequent
    reversals of these credits based on historical experience.
    Beginning Retained Earnings for fiscal 2006 was decreased by
    $30 million in the accompanying Consolidated Financial
    Statements to reflect the appropriate adjustments to Merchandise
    Inventories and Accounts Payable, net of tax.

Impact of
    Adjustments  

The impact of each of the items noted above, net of tax, on
    fiscal 2006 beginning balances are presented below (amounts in
    millions):

40

Table of Contents   

The Company has commercial paper programs that allow for
    borrowings up to $3.25 billion. All of the Company s
    short-term borrowings in fiscal 2008 and 2007 were under these
    commercial paper programs. In connection with the commercial
    paper programs, the Company has a
     back-up 
    credit facility with a consortium of banks for borrowings up to
    $3.25 billion. The credit facility, which expires in
    December 2010, contains various restrictive covenants, all of
    which we are in compliance. None of the covenants are expected
    to impact the Company s liquidity or capital resources.

Short-Term Debt under the commercial paper programs was as
    follows (dollars in millions):

The Company s Long-Term Debt at the end of fiscal 2008 and
    2007 consisted of the following (amounts in millions):

During fiscal 2008 and 2007, the Company entered into interest
    rate swaps, accounted for as fair value hedges, with notional
    amounts of $3.0 billion, that swapped fixed rate interest
    on the Company s $3.0 billion 5.40% Senior Notes
    for variable rate interest equal to LIBOR plus 60 to
    149 basis points. In fiscal 2008, the Company received
    $56 million to settle these swaps, which will be amortized
    to reduce net Interest Expense over the remaining term of
    the debt.

At February 1, 2009, the Company had outstanding an
    interest rate swap, accounted for as a cash flow hedge, with a
    notional amount of $750 million that swaps variable rate
    interest on the Company s $750 million floating rate
    Senior Notes for fixed rate interest at 4.36% that expires on
    December 16, 2009. At February 1, 2009, the
    approximate fair value of this agreement was a liability of
    $21 million, which is the estimated amount the Company
    would have paid to settle the interest rate swap agreement.

The Senior Notes may be redeemed by the Company at any time, in
    whole or in part, at a redemption price plus accrued interest up
    to the redemption date. The redemption price is equal to the
    greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Senior
    Notes to be redeemed, or (2) the sum of the present values
    of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to
    maturity.

41

Table of Contents   

Additionally, if a Change in Control Triggering Event occurs, as
    defined by the terms of the Floating Rate Senior Notes and
    5.25% Senior Notes issuance (together the  December
    2006 Issuance ), holders of the December 2006 Issuance have
    the right to require the Company to redeem those notes at 101%
    of the aggregate principal amount of the notes plus accrued
    interest up to the redemption date.

The Company is generally not limited under the indentures
    governing the Senior Notes in its ability to incur additional
    indebtedness or required to maintain financial ratios or
    specified levels of net worth or liquidity. However, the
    indenture governing the Senior Notes contains various
    restrictive covenants, none of which is expected to impact the
    Company s liquidity or capital resources.

Interest Expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of
    Earnings is net of interest capitalized of $20 million,
    $46 million and $47 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. Maturities of Long-Term Debt are
    $1.8 billion for fiscal 2009, $1.0 billion for fiscal
    2010, $1.0 billion for fiscal 2011, $24 million for
    fiscal 2012, $1.3 billion for fiscal 2013 and
    $6.3 billion thereafter. As of February 1, 2009, the
    market value of the Senior Notes was approximately
    $10.0 billion.

7.       

INCOME
    TAXES  

The components of Earnings from Continuing Operations before
    Provision for Income Taxes for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 were
    as follows (amounts in millions):

The Provision for Income Taxes consisted of the following
    (amounts in millions):

The Company s combined federal, state and foreign effective
    tax rates for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, net of offsets
    generated by federal, state and foreign tax benefits, were
    approximately 35.6%, 36.4% and 38.1%, respectively.

42

Table of Contents   

The reconciliation of the Provision for Income Taxes at the
    federal statutory rate of 35% to the actual tax expense for the
    applicable fiscal years was as follows (amounts in millions):

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to
    significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax
    liabilities as of February 1, 2009 and February 3,
    2008, were as follows (amounts in millions):

Current deferred tax assets and current deferred tax liabilities
    are netted by tax jurisdiction and noncurrent deferred tax
    assets and noncurrent deferred tax liabilities are netted by tax
    jurisdiction, and are included in the accompanying Consolidated
    Balance Sheets as follows (amounts in millions):

43

Table of Contents   

The Company believes that the realization of the deferred tax
    assets is more likely than not, based upon the expectation that
    it will generate the necessary taxable income in future periods
    and, except for certain net operating losses discussed below, no
    valuation reserves have been provided.

At February 1, 2009, the Company had state and foreign net
    operating loss carryforwards available to reduce future taxable
    income, expiring at various dates from 2010 to 2028. Management
    has concluded that it is more likely than not that the tax
    benefits related to the net operating losses will be realized.
    However, certain foreign net operating losses are in
    jurisdictions where the expiration period is too short to be
    assured of utilization. Therefore, a $12 million valuation
    allowance has been provided to reduce the deferred tax asset
    related to net operating losses to an amount that is more likely
    than not to be realized. Total valuation allowances at
    February 1, 2009 and February 3, 2008 were
    $12 million and $7 million, respectively.

As a result of its sale of HD Supply, the Company incurred a tax
    loss, resulting in a net capital loss carryover of approximately
    $187 million. The tax loss on sale resulted primarily from
    the Company s tax basis in excess of its book investment in
    HD Supply. The net capital loss carryover will expire if not
    used by 2012. However, the Company has concluded that it is more
    likely than not that the tax benefits related to the capital
    loss carryover will be realized based on its ability to generate
    adequate capital gain income during the carryover period.
    Therefore, no valuation allowance has been provided.

The Company has not provided for U.S. deferred income taxes
    on approximately $1.3 billion of undistributed earnings of
    international subsidiaries because of its intention to
    indefinitely reinvest these earnings outside the U.S. The
    determination of the amount of the unrecognized deferred
    U.S. income tax liability related to the undistributed
    earnings is not practicable; however, unrecognized foreign
    income tax credits would be available to reduce a portion of
    this liability.

On January 29, 2007, the Company adopted FASB
    Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
    Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement
    No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). Among other
    things, FIN 48 requires application of a  more likely
    than not  threshold to the recognition and derecognition of
    tax positions. It further requires that a change in judgment
    related to prior years  tax positions be recognized in the
    quarter of such change. The adoption of FIN 48 reduced the
    Company s Retained Earnings by $111 million. As a
    result of the implementation, the gross amount of unrecognized
    tax benefits at January 29, 2007 for continuing operations
    totaled $667 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and
    ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for continuing
    operations is as follows (amounts in millions):

The gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of
    February 1, 2009 includes $401 million of net
    unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the
    annual effective income tax rate.

During fiscal 2008, the Company decreased its interest accrual
    associated with uncertain tax positions by approximately
    $19 million and paid interest of approximately
    $12 million. During fiscal 2007, the Company increased its
    interest accrual associated with uncertain tax positions by
    approximately $32 million and paid interest of
    approximately $8 million. Total accrued interest as of
    February 1, 2009 and February 3, 2008 is
    $109 million and $140 million, respectively. There
    were no penalty accruals during fiscal 2008 or 2007. Interest
    and penalties are included in net interest expense and operating
    expenses, respectively. Our classification of interest and
    penalties did not change as a result of the adoption of
    FIN 48.

The Company s income tax returns are routinely examined by
    domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits generally
    include queries regarding the cost recovery of certain assets,
    which may result in timing differences. During 2007, the IRS
    completed its examination of the Company s fiscal 2003 and
    2004 income tax returns, with the exception of certain issues

44

Table of Contents   

that are currently under appeal. During 2008, the IRS began its
    examination of the Company s U.S. federal income tax
    returns for fiscal years 2005 and 2006. The Canadian
    governments, including various provinces, are currently auditing
    income tax returns for the years 2004 through 2005. Also, during
    2008, the company entered into an Advance Pricing Agreement
    which settled a transfer pricing issue for the years 2004
    through 2008 related to intangible assets provided from the
    U.S. There are also ongoing U.S. state and local
    audits covering tax years 2001 to 2006. At this time, the
    Company does not expect the results from any income tax audit to
    have a material impact on the Company s financial
    statements.

The Company believes that certain adjustments under appeal for
    the completed IRS examination, as well as certain state audits,
    will be agreed upon within the next twelve months. The Company
    has classified approximately $18 million of the reserve for
    unrecognized tax benefits as a short-term liability in the
    accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Final settlement of
    these audit issues may result in payments that are more or less
    than these amounts, but the Company does not anticipate the
    resolution of these matters will result in a material change to
    its consolidated financial position or results of operations.

8.       

EMPLOYEE
    STOCK PLANS  

The Home Depot, Inc. 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
    ( 2005 Plan ) and The Home Depot, Inc. 1997 Omnibus
    Stock Incentive Plan ( 1997 Plan  and collectively
    with the 2005 Plan, the  Plans ) provide that
    incentive and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation
    rights, restricted shares, performance shares, performance units
    and deferred shares may be issued to selected associates,
    officers and directors of the Company. Under the 2005 Plan, the
    maximum number of shares of the Company s common stock
    authorized for issuance is 255 million shares, with any
    award other than a stock option reducing the number of shares
    available for issuance by 2.11 shares. As of
    February 1, 2009, there were 205 million shares
    available for future grants under the 2005 Plan. No additional
    equity awards may be issued from the 1997 Plan after the
    adoption of the 2005 Plan on May 26, 2005.

Under the terms of the Plans, incentive stock options and
    non-qualified stock options are to be priced at or above the
    fair market value of the Company s stock on the date of the
    grant. Typically, incentive stock options and non-qualified
    stock options vest at the rate of 25% per year commencing on the
    first or second anniversary date of the grant and expire on the
    tenth anniversary date of the grant. Certain of the
    non-qualified stock options also include performance options
    which vest on the later of the first anniversary date of the
    grant and the date the closing price of the Company s
    common stock has been 25% greater than the exercise price of the
    options for 30 consecutive trading days. The Company recognized
    $47 million, $61 million and $148 million of
    stock-based compensation expense in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, related to stock options.

Restrictions on the restricted stock issued under the Plans
    generally lapse according to one of the following schedules:
    (1) the restrictions of the restricted stock lapse over
    various periods up to five years, (2) the restrictions on
    25% of the restricted stock lapse upon the third and sixth
    anniversaries of the date of issuance with the remaining 50% of
    the restricted stock lapsing upon the associate s
    attainment of age 62, or (3) the restrictions on 25%
    of the restricted stock lapse upon the third and sixth
    anniversaries of the date of issuance with the remaining 50% of
    the restricted stock lapsing upon the earlier of the
    associate s attainment of age 60 or the tenth
    anniversary date. The restricted stock also includes the
    Company s performance shares, the payout of which is
    dependent on the Company s total shareholders return
    percentile ranking compared to the performance of individual
    companies included in the S P 500 index at the end of the
    three-year performance cycle. Additionally, certain awards may
    become non-forfeitable upon the attainment of age 60,
    provided the associate has had five years of continuous service.
    The fair value of the restricted stock is expensed over the
    period during which the restrictions lapse. The Company recorded
    stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock of
    $109 million, $122 million and $95 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were 641 thousand, 593
    thousand and 417 thousand deferred shares, respectively, granted
    under the Plans. Each deferred share entitles the person to one
    share of common stock to be received up to five years after the
    vesting date of the deferred shares, subject to certain deferral
    rights of the associate. The Company recorded stock-based
    compensation expense related to deferred shares of
    $9 million, $10 million and $37 million in fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

As of February 1, 2009, there were 2.5 million
    non-qualified stock options outstanding under non-qualified
    stock option plans that are not part of the Plans.

45

Table of Contents   

The Company maintains two Employee Stock Purchase Plans
    ( ESPPs ) (U.S. and
     non-U.S. plans). 
    The plan for U.S. associates is a tax-qualified plan under
    Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code. The
     non-U.S. plan 
    is not a Section 423 plan. As of February 1, 2009,
    there were 15 million shares available under the plan for
    U.S associates and 21 million shares available under the
     non-U.S. plan. 
    The purchase price of shares under the ESPPs is equal to 85% of
    the stock s fair market value on the last day of the
    purchase period. During fiscal 2008, there were 3 million
    shares purchased under the ESPPs at an average price of $19.74.
    Under the outstanding ESPPs as of February 1, 2009,
    employees have contributed $6 million to purchase shares at
    85% of the stock s fair market value on the last day
    (June 30, 2009) of the purchase period. The Company
    recognized $11 million, $14 million and
    $17 million of stock-based compensation in fiscal 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively, related to the ESPPs.

In total, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense,
    including the expense of stock options, ESPPs, restricted stock
    and deferred stock units, of $176 million,
    $207 million and $297 million, in fiscal 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively.

The following table summarizes stock options outstanding at
    February 1, 2009, February 3, 2008 and
    January 28, 2007, and changes during the fiscal years ended
    on these dates (shares in thousands):

The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was
    $4 million, $63 million and $120 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of February 1,
    2009, there were approximately 52 million stock options
    outstanding with a weighted average remaining life of
    4 years and an intrinsic value of $1.4 million. As of
    February 1, 2009, there were approximately 42 million
    options exercisable with a weighted average exercise price of
    $39.33, a weighted average remaining life of 4 years, and
    no intrinsic value. As of February 1, 2009, there were
    approximately 51 million shares vested or expected to
    ultimately vest. As of February 1, 2009, there was
    $47 million of unamortized stock-based compensation expense
    related to stock options which is expected to be recognized over
    a weighted average period of 3 years.

46

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes restricted stock outstanding at
    February 1, 2009 (shares in thousands):

As of February 1, 2009, there was $320 million of
    unamortized stock-based compensation expense related to
    restricted stock which is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted average period of 3 years. The total fair value of
    restricted stock shares vesting during fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006 were $33 million, $103 million and
    $48 million, respectively.

The Company leases certain retail locations, office space,
    warehouse and distribution space, equipment and vehicles. While
    most of the leases are operating leases, certain locations and
    equipment are leased under capital leases. As leases expire, it
    can be expected that, in the normal course of business, certain
    leases will be renewed or replaced.

Certain lease agreements include escalating rents over the lease
    terms. The Company expenses rent on a straight-line basis over
    the lease term which commences on the date the Company has the
    right to control the property. The cumulative expense recognized
    on a straight-line basis in excess of the cumulative payments is
    included in Other Accrued Expenses and Other Long-Term
    Liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.

The Company had a lease agreement under which the Company leased
    certain assets totaling $282 million. This lease was
    originally created under a structured financing arrangement and
    involved two special purpose entities. The Company financed a
    portion of its new stores opened in fiscal years 1997 through
    2003 under this lease agreement. Under this agreement, the
    lessor purchased the properties, paid for the construction costs
    and subsequently leased the facilities to the Company. The
    Company recorded the rental payments under the terms of the
    operating lease agreements as SG A in the accompanying
    Consolidated Statements of Earnings.

The $282 million lease agreement expired in fiscal 2008,
    and the Company exercised its option to purchase the assets
    under this lease for $282 million. As a result of this
    purchase, the Company paid off $282 million of Long-Term
    Debt included in the structured financing arrangement and
    reclassified $282 million from Long-Term Notes Receivable
    to Property and Equipment in the accompanying Consolidated
    Balance Sheets.

Total rent expense, net of minor sublease income for fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006 was $846 million, $824 million and
    $768 million, respectively. Certain store leases also
    provide for contingent rent payments based on percentages of
    sales in excess of specified minimums. Contingent rent expense
    for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 was approximately
    $5 million, $6 million and $9 million,
    respectively. Real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and
    operating expenses applicable to the leased property are
    obligations of the Company under the lease agreements.

47

Table of Contents   

The approximate future minimum lease payments under capital and
    all other leases at February 1, 2009 were as follows (in
    millions):

Short-term and long-term obligations for capital leases are
    included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets in
    Current Installments of Long-Term Debt and Long-Term Debt,
    respectively. The assets under capital leases recorded in
    Property and Equipment, net of amortization, totaled
    $309 million and $327 million at February 1, 2009
    and February 3, 2008, respectively.

10.       

EMPLOYEE
    BENEFIT PLANS  

The Company maintains active defined contribution retirement
    plans for its employees (the  Benefit Plans ). All
    associates satisfying certain service requirements are eligible
    to participate in the Benefit Plans. The Company makes cash
    contributions each payroll period up to specified percentages of
    associates  contributions as approved by the Board of
    Directors.

The Company also maintains a restoration plan to provide certain
    associates deferred compensation that they would have received
    under the Benefit Plans as a matching contribution if not for
    the maximum compensation limits under the Internal Revenue Code.
    The Company funds the restoration plan through contributions
    made to a grantor trust, which are then used to purchase shares
    of the Company s common stock in the open market.

The Company s contributions to the Benefit Plans and the
    restoration plan were $158 million, $152 million and
    $135 million for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    At February 1, 2009, the Benefit Plans and the restoration
    plan held a total of 20 million shares of the
    Company s common stock in trust for plan participants.

11.       

BASIC AND
    DILUTED WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES  

The reconciliation of basic to diluted weighted average common
    shares for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 is as follows (amounts in
    millions):

Stock plans include shares granted under the Company s
    employee stock plans as described in Note 8 to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements. Options to purchase
    52.2 million, 43.4 million and 45.4 million
    shares of common stock at February 1, 2009,
    February 3, 2008 and January 28, 2007, respectively,
    were excluded from the computation of Diluted Earnings per Share
    because their effect would have been anti-dilutive.

48

Table of Contents   

12.       

COMMITMENTS
    AND CONTINGENCIES  

At February 1, 2009, the Company was contingently liable
    for approximately $695 million under outstanding letters of
    credit and open accounts issued for certain business
    transactions, including insurance programs, trade contracts and
    construction contracts. The Company s letters of credit are
    primarily performance-based and are not based on changes in
    variable components, a liability or an equity security of the
    other party.

The Company is a defendant in numerous cases containing
     class-action 
    allegations in which the plaintiffs are current and former
    hourly associates who allege that the Company failed to provide
    work breaks. The complaints generally seek unspecified monetary
    damages, injunctive relief or both. Class or collective-action
    certification has yet to be addressed in most of these cases.
    The Company has reached a tentative settlement with the
    plaintiffs in certain of these cases, subject to court approval.
    The reserve recorded by the Company for these cases is not
    material to the consolidated financial statements. The Company
    cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss which may arise
    from the remainder of these lawsuits. These matters, if decided
    adversely to or settled by the Company, individually or in the
    aggregate, may result in a liability material to the
    Company s consolidated financial condition or results of
    operations. The Company is vigorously defending itself against
    these actions.

13.       

QUARTERLY
    FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  

The following is a summary of the quarterly consolidated results
    of operations from continuing operations for the fiscal years
    ended February 1, 2009 and February 3, 2008 (dollars
    in millions, except per share data):

Note: The quarterly data may not sum to fiscal year
    totals. 

49

Table of Contents   

Item 9.    

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.  

Not applicable.

Item 9A.    

Controls
    and Procedures.  

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures  

The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as
    defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act) that are designed to ensure
    that information required to be disclosed in the Company s
    Securities Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed,
    summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
    Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms, and
    that such information is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company s management, including the Chief Executive Officer
    and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely
    decisions regarding required disclosure.

The Company s management, with the participation of the
    Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer, have evaluated the effectiveness of the Company s
    disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period
    covered by this report. Based on such evaluation, the Chief
    Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded
    that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, the
    Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting  

There have not been any changes in the Company s internal
    control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act) during the fiscal quarter
    ended February 1, 2009 that have materially affected, or
    are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to Item 8.  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data  of this report.

Item 9B.    

Other
    Information.  

None.

50

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  

Information required by this item, other than the information
    regarding the executive officers of the Company set forth below,
    is incorporated by reference to the sections entitled
     Election of Directors and Director Biographies, 
     Board of Directors Information,   General 
    and  Audit Committee Report  in the Company s
    Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the
     Proxy Statement ).

Executive officers of the Company are appointed by, and serve at
    the pleasure of, the Board of Directors. The current executive
    officers of the Company are as follows:

FRANCIS S. BLAKE, age 59, has been Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer since January 2007. From March 2002 through
    January 2007, he served as the Company s Executive Vice
    President   Business Development and Corporate
    Operations. Mr. Blake serves as a director of The Southern
    Company.

TIMOTHY M. CROW, age 53, has been Executive Vice
    President   Human Resources since February 2007. From
    March 2005 through February 2007, he served as Senior Vice
    President   Human Resources, Organization, Talent and
    Performance Systems and he served as Vice President  
    Human Resources, Performance Systems from May 2002 through March
    2005. Mr. Crow previously served as Senior Vice
    President   Human Resources of K-Mart Corporation, a
    mass merchandising company, from January 2001 through May 2002.

MARVIN R. ELLISON, age 44, has been Executive Vice
    President   U.S. Stores since August 2008. From
    January 2006 through August 2008, he served as
    President   Northern Division. From August 2005
    through January 2006, he served as Senior Vice
    President   Logistics and from October 2004 through
    August 2005 he served as Vice President   Logistics.
    From June 2002 through October 2004, he served as Vice
    President   Loss Prevention. From 1987 until June
    2002, Mr. Ellison held various management and executive
    level positions with Target Corporation, a general merchandise
    retailer. His final position with Target was Director, Assets
    Protection.

CRAIG A. MENEAR, age 51, has been Executive Vice
    President   Merchandising since April 2007. From
    August 2003 through April 2007, he served as Senior Vice
    President   Merchandising. From 1997 through August
    2003, Mr. Menear served in various management and vice
    president level positions in the Company s Merchandising
    department, including Merchandising Vice President of Hardware,
    Merchandising Vice President of the Southwest Division, and
    Divisional Merchandise Manager of the Southwest Division.

RICARDO E. SALD VAR, age 56, has been
    President   Mexico since March 2006. From August 2001
    through March 2006, he served as Region President  
    Mexico. From 1985 to August 2001, Mr. Saldivar held various
    management and executive level positions with Grupo Alfa, a
    Mexican conglomerate. His final position with Grupo Alfa was
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Total Home.

CAROL B. TOM , age 52, has been Chief Financial
    Officer since May 2001 and Executive Vice President
      Corporate Services since January 2007. Prior
    thereto, Ms. Tom  served as Senior Vice President
      Finance and Accounting/Treasurer from February 2000
    through May 2001 and as Vice President and Treasurer from 1995
    through February 2000. From 1992 until 1995, when she joined the
    Company, Ms. Tom  was Vice President and Treasurer of
    Riverwood International Corporation, a provider of paperboard
    packaging. Ms. Tom  serves as a director of United
    Parcel Service, Inc. and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.

JACK A. VANWOERKOM, age 55, has been Executive Vice
    President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since June
    2007. Prior thereto, Mr. VanWoerkom served as Executive
    Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Staples, Inc.,
    an office products company, from March 2003 through May 2007 and
    as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of
    Staples, Inc. from March 1999 until March 2003.
    Mr. VanWoerkom serves as a director of Wright Express
    Corporation.

ANNETTE M. VERSCHUREN, age 52, has been President, The Home
    Depot Canada since March 1996 and President, The Home Depot Asia
    since September 2006. From April 2003 through October 2005, she
    also served as President, EXPO Design Center.
    Ms. Verschuren serves as a director of Liberty Mutual
    Holding Company Inc.

51

Table of Contents   

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation.  

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Executive
    Compensation,   Compensation Discussion  
    Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report  and
     Director Compensation  in the Company s Proxy
    Statement.

Item 12.  Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.  

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Beneficial Ownership of
    Common Stock  and  Executive Compensation  in the
    Company s Proxy Statement.

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.  

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the sections entitled  Board of Directors
    Information  and  General  in the Company s
    Proxy Statement.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services.  

The information required by this item is incorporated by
    reference to the section entitled  Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm s Fees  in the Company s
    Proxy Statement.

52

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules.  

(a)(1)  Financial Statements 

The following financial statements are set forth in Item 8
    hereof:

(2)  

Financial Statement Schedules 

All schedules are omitted as the required information is
    inapplicable or the information is presented in the consolidated
    financial statements or related notes.

Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are incorporated by
    reference to exhibits or appendices previously filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission, as indicated by the
    references in brackets. All other exhibits are filed herewith.
    Our Current, Quarterly and Annual Reports are filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission under File
     No. 1-8207. 
    Our Registration Statements have the file numbers noted wherever
    such statements are identified in the following list of exhibits.

53

Table of Contents   

54

Table of Contents   

55

Table of Contents   

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required
    to be filed as an exhibit to this form pursuant to
    Item 15(a) of this report. 

56

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. 
           (Registrant)

By: 

/s/   Francis
    S. Blake 

(Francis S. Blake, Chairman   CEO)

Date: March 25, 2009

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Francis
    S. Blake 

(Francis
    S. Blake)

Chairman   Chief Executive Officer (Principal
    Executive Officer)

March 25, 2009

/s/   Carol
    B. Tom  

(Carol
    B. Tom )

Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President  
    Corporate Services (Principal Financial Officer and Principal
    Accounting Officer)

March 25, 2009

/s/   F.
    Duane Ackerman 

(F.
    Duane Ackerman)

Director

March 24, 2009

/s/   David
    H. Batchelder 

(David
    H. Batchelder)

Director

March 20, 2009

/s/   Ari
    Bousbib 

(Ari
    Bousbib)

Director

March 20, 2009

/s/   Gregory
    D. Brenneman 

(Gregory
    D. Brenneman)

Director

March 20, 2009

/s/   Albert
    P. Carey 

(Albert
    P. Carey)

Director

March 30, 2009

/s/   Armando
    Codina 

(Armando
    Codina)

Director

March 31, 2009

/s/   Bonnie
    G. Hill 

(Bonnie
    G. Hill)

Director

March 30, 2009

/s/   Karen
    L. Katen 

(Karen
    L. Katen)

Director

March 25, 2009

57

Table of Contents   

INDEX
    OF ATTACHED EXHIBITS   

12

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

21

List of Subsidiaries of the Company.

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31

.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14(a) 
    promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended.

31

.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to
     Rule 13a-14(a) 
    promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended.

32

.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer, pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32

.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer, pursuant to
    18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

58

Table of Contents   

10-Year 
    Summary of Financial and Operating Results 
    The Home Depot, Inc. and Subsidiaries  

F-1

Table of Contents   

(4)   

Includes Net Sales at locations open greater than
    12 months, including relocated and remodeled stores. Stores
    become comparable on the Monday following their 365th day of
    operation. Comparable store sales is intended only as
    supplemental information and is not a substitute for Net Sales
    or Net Earnings presented in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles.  

(5)   

Comparable store sales in fiscal years prior to 2002 were
    reported to the nearest percent.  

F-2

<EX-12>
 2
 x17422exv12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

Exhibit 12 

THE HOME DEPOT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
STATEMENT OF COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
($ in millions, except ratio data) 

(1)  
       
      Fiscal years 2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 refer to the fiscal years ended February 1,
2009, February 3, 2008, January 28, 2007, January 29, 2006 and January 30, 2005, respectively.
Fiscal year 2007 includes 53 weeks; all other fiscal years reported include 52 weeks.  

(2)  
       
      For purposes of computing the ratios of earnings to fixed charges,  earnings  consist of
earnings from continuing operations before income taxes plus fixed charges, excluding
capitalized interest.  Fixed charges  consist of interest incurred on indebtedness including
capitalized interest, amortization of debt expenses and the portion of rental expense under
operating leases deemed to be the equivalent of interest. The ratios of earnings to fixed
charges are calculated as follows:  

(earnings
from continuing operations before income taxes) (fixed
charges)-(capitalized interest)   
 (fixed charges) 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 x17422exv21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21 

LISTS
OF SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY 

STATE OR JURISDICTION  

NAME OF SUBSIDIARY  
       
      OF INCORPORATION  
       
      D/B/A  

Home Depot International, Inc.

Delaware

(Not Applicable) 

Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.

Delaware

The Home Depot 

EXPO Design Center 

Creative Touch Interiors 

Yardbirds Electric and Plumbing Supply 

HD Development of Maryland, Inc.

Maryland

(Not Applicable) 

Certain subsidiaries were omitted pursuant to Item 601(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K under the
Securities Act of 1934, as amended.

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 x17422exv23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors 
The Home Depot, Inc.:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
registration statements (Nos. 333-156655,
333-135280) on Form S-3 and (Nos. 033-58807, 333-61733, 333-38946, 333-110423, 333-151849,
333-56722, 333-62316, 333-62318, 333-72016, 333-125331, 333-153171, 333-125332) on Form S-8 of The
Home Depot, Inc. of our reports dated March 26, 2009, with respect to the consolidated balance
sheets of The Home Depot, Inc. and subsidiaries as of February 1, 2009 and February 3, 2008, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity and comprehensive income, and
cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended February 1, 2009, and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of February 1, 2009, which reports
appear in the February 1, 2009 annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc. Our report refers
to the Company s adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes , effective January 29, 2007, the beginning of the fiscal year ended
February 3, 2008.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Atlanta, Georgia 
April 1, 2009

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 x17422exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

Exhibit 31.1 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Francis S. Blake, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date: March 26, 2009

/s/  F rancis  S.
B lake  

Francis S. Blake  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 x17422exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

Exhibit 31.2 

CERTIFICATION 

I, Carol B. Tom , certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of The Home Depot, Inc.; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

a) 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which
this report is being prepared; 

b) 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and
procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report
based on such evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

a) 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation
of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial
information; and 

b) 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting. 

Date:
March 26, 2009

/s/  C arol 
B. T om   

Carol B. Tom   

Chief Financial Officer and 
Executive Vice President   Corporate Services  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 x17422exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1

EX-32.1 

Exhibit 32.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of The Home Depot, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K ( Form
10-K ) for the period ended February 1, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
I, Francis S. Blake, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to
my knowledge:

(1) 
       
     The Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/  F rancis  S. B lake  

Francis S. Blake  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer March 26, 2009  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 x17422exv32w2.htm
 EX-32.2

EX-32.2 

Exhibit 32.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of The Home Depot, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K ( Form
10-K ) for the period ended February 1, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
I, Carol B. Tom , Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President   Corporate Services of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:

(1) 
       
     The Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/  C arol 
B. T om   

Carol B. Tom   

Chief Financial Officer and
Executive Vice President - Corporate Services March 26, 2009  

</EX-32.2>

