<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080222_10-K_edgar_data_18230_0000018230-08-000052_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>10841037</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>517444</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2082940</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6449293</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>137</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000018230-08-000052.hdr.sgml : 20080222
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080222133959
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000018230-08-000052
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		23
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080222

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CATERPILLAR INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000018230
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIP [3531]
		IRS NUMBER:				370602744
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00768
		FILM NUMBER:		08635705

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3096751000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		100 NE ADAMS ST
		CITY:			PEORIA
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			61629

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CATERPILLAR TRACTOR CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19860623

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WcyKigILaGeJOT2D370iDnMHxKp+sN0NznV+CJSqVwOAs8BBO2HqeJwMFiLoqOcU
 NUoctxBnEVmvevCP7tzorw==

 0000018230-08-000052.txt : 20080222

10-K
 1
 form10k_2007.htm
 FORM 10-K

form10k_2007.htm 

Securities registered pursuant to
      Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Title of each
      class  

Name of each
      exchange  

                     on
      which registered      

Common Stock ($1.00 par
      value)  (1)  

Chicago Stock
      Exchange  

                   New York Stock
      Exchange  

Preferred Stock Purchase
      Rights  

Chicago Stock
      Exchange  

                   New York Stock
      Exchange  

9 3/8% Debentures due August 15,
      2011  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

9 3/8% Debentures due March 15,
      2021  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

8% Debentures due February 15,
      2023  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

5.3% Debentures due September 15,
      2035  

New York Stock
      Exchange  

(1)   
               
                   In addition to the exchanges in
      the United States, Caterpillar common stock is also listed on stock
      exchanges in Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain and
      Switzerland.  

Securities registered pursuant to
      Section 12(g) of the
Act:  None  

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act.    Yes [       ]   No
[    ]  

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.            
    Yes
[    ]   No [       ]  

Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be
filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required
to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past 90 days.   Yes [     ]   No
[    ]  

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
 [    ]  

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of "large accelerated
filer,  and  smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act.  (Check one):  

         Large accelerated filer   [       ]     Accelerated filer
  [  
 ]     Non-accelerated filer
  [ 
   ]  Smaller Reporting
Company  [   ]  

Indicate by check mark whether the
Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).  

         Yes
[    ]   No [       ]  

As of June 30, 2007, there were
639,155,181 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding, and the
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant (assuming only for purposes of this computation that directors and
executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately   $ 49.5 billion.  

As of December 31, 2007, there were
623,986,134 shares of common stock of the Registrant outstanding, and the
aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant (assuming only for purposes of the computation that directors and
executive officers may be affiliates) was approximately $44.8
billion.  

Documents Incorporated by
Reference  

Portions of the documents listed below
have been incorporated by reference into the indicated parts of this Form 10-K,
as specified in the responses to the item numbers involved.  

Part III  

2008 Annual Meeting Proxy
      Statement (Proxy Statement) expected to be filed with the Securities and
      Exchange Commission (SEC) on April 21, 2008 but not later than June 30,
      2008 (within 120 days after the end of the calendar
      year).  

Parts I, II,
    IV  

General and Financial Information
      for 2007 containing the information required by SEC Rule 14a-3 for an
      annual report to security holders filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form
      10-K.  

TABLE OF
      CONTENTS  

Part I  

Item
      1.   

Business  

Item
      1A.   

Risk Factors  

Item
      1B.   

Unresolved Staff
      Comments  

Item
      1C.   

Executive Officers of the
      Registrant as of December 31, 2007  

Item
      2.   

Properties  

Item
      3.   

Legal
      Proceedings  

Item
      4.   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of
      Security Holders  

Part II  

Item
      5.   

Market for Registrant's Common
      Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities   

Item
      6.   

Selected Financial
      Data  

Item
      7.   

Management's Discussion and
      Analysis of Financial     Condition and Results of
      Operations  

Item
      7A.   

Quantitative and Qualitative
      Disclosures About Market Risk  

Item
      8.   

Financial Statements and
      Supplementary Data  

Item
      9.   

Changes in and Disagreements With
      Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  

Item
      9A.   

Controls and
      Procedures  

Item
      9B.   

Other
      Information  

Part III  

Item
      10.   

Directors, Executive Officers and
      Corporate Governance  

Item
      11.   

Executive
      Compensation  

Item
      12.   

Security Ownership of Certain
      Beneficial Owners and Management     and Related Stockholder
      Matters  

Item
      13.   

Certain Relationships and Related
      Transactions, and Director Independence  

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and
      Services  

Part IV  

Item
      15.   

Exhibits and Financial Statement
      Schedules  

PART 
  I   

Item
      1.   Business .  

General  

         The
company was  originally 
organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of
California.  In 1986, the company reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in
the State of Delaware.  As used herein, the term "Caterpillar," "we,"
"us," "our" or "the company" refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries
unless designated or identified otherwise.  

Principal
Lines of Business / Nature of Operations  

        We operate in three
principal lines of business: 

1. 

Machinery    A principal line of business
      which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of
      construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel tractors,
      track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products, skid steer loaders and related parts. Also includes logistics
      services for other companies and the design, manufacture, remanufacture,
      maintenance and services of rail-related products.  

2. 

Engines      A principal line of business
      including the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of engines for
      Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation systems; on-highway
      vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum, construction, industrial,
      agricultural and other applications; and related parts.  Also
      includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and a variety of
      Caterpillar machine and engine components and remanufacturing services for
      other companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power needs ranging
      from 5 to 21,500 horsepower (4 to over 16 000
      kilowatts).  Turbines range from 1,600 to 20,500 horsepower (1
      200 to 15 000 kilowatts).  

3. 

Financial
      Products       A principal line of
      business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial Services
      Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc. (Cat
      Insurance), Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation (Cat Power Ventures)
      and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat Financial provides a
      wide range of financing alternatives to customers and dealers for
      Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well as other
      equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also extends loans
      to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides various forms
      of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and
      lease of our equipment.  Cat Power Ventures is an investor in
      independent power projects using Caterpillar power generation equipment
      and services.  

Due to financial information required by
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131,   Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information,   we have also divided our business into
nine reportable segments for financial reporting
purposes.  Information about our reportable segments, including
geographic information, appears in Note 24    Segment information      of Exhibit 13.  

Other information about our operations
in 2007 and our outlook for 2008, including risks associated with foreign
operations, is incorporated by reference from  "Management's
Discussion and Analysis" of Exhibit 13.  

Company
Strengths     

         Caterpillar is the leader in
construction and mining equipment, and diesel and natural gas engines and
industrial gas turbines in our size range. The company is also a leading
services provider through Cat Financial, Caterpillar Logistics Services Inc.,
Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services Inc. and Progress Rail Services Corporation
(Progress Rail).  Annual sales and revenues were $ 44.958 billion,
making Caterpillar the largest manufacturer in its
industry.  Caterpillar is also a leading U.S.
exporter.  Through direct sales of certain products and a global
network of independent dealers, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with
customers around the world.  For over 80 years, the Caterpillar name
has been associated with the highest level of quality products and
services.  More information is available at   www.CAT.com.  

Page 1 

Competitive
Environment  

        Caterpillar
products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of
highly competitive markets.  In all markets, we compete on the basis
of product performance, customer service, quality and price.  From
time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a
particular industry or region.  Such price discounting puts pressure
on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. 

Outside of the
United States, certain competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to
operating in their home countries or regions. 

Machinery      

The competitive environment for
Caterpillar s machinery business consists of some global competitors and many
regional and specialized local competitors.  Examples of global
competitors include, but are not limited to, Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction
Equipment (part of the Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Hitachi Construction
Machinery Co., Terex Corporation, J.C. Bamford Ltd. and Doosan Infracore Co.,
Ltd.  Each of these companies have varying numbers of product lines
that compete with Caterpillar product lines and each have varying degrees of
regional focus.  John Deere Construction and Forestry Division (part
of Deere   Co.), for example, has numerous product lines that compete with
Caterpillar primarily in North America and Latin America.  Others,
like Hitachi, offer a limited range of products that compete globally against
Caterpillar.  

During 2007, global
industry demand continued to be strong and most competitors experienced
increased sales and operating profits, despite weak construction activity in
North America. Solid economic and industry growth was experienced in most of the
world outside North America, particularly in emerging markets.  The
overall competitive environment in the machinery business continues to be
intense, and the overall financial health of the industry continues to
improve. 

Caterpillar's logistics business
provides integrated supply chain services for Caterpillar and over 65 other
companies worldwide.  It competes with global, regional and local
competitors, including companies such as DHL Express USA, Inc. and United Parcel
Service, Inc.  The unit has grown rapidly since its inception in 1987,
and the contract logistics industry is expected to continue to grow at rates
above that of the global economy as a whole.  

Since its acquisition by Caterpillar in
June 2006, wholly owned subsidiary Progress Rail has continued its position in
North America as a leading provider of a broad range of
products.  Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a leading
provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products and services
to the North American railroad industry.  The company also has one of
the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North
America.  Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is a strong
fit with our strategic direction and will leverage Caterpillar s global
remanufacturing capabilities.  

In February 2007, Caterpillar acquired
certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Franklin Power Products and
International Fuel Systems, Inc., subsidiaries of Remy
International.    These businesses joined other
Caterpillar remanufacturing facilities in the United States, Mexico, Europe and
Asia, increasing our overall product and service offering and providing a
platform for future growth opportunities for remanufactured
products.  

In November 2007, Caterpillar announced
the acquisition of the assets of the Blount Forestry Division and assumed
product design, development and manufacturing responsibilities, offering a full
range of products and services for logging, millyard, road-building and land
management.  Competition in this market comes from John Deere Forestry
Division (part of Deere   Co), Komatsu Ltd. and others.  

Engines        

Caterpillar operates in a very
competitive engine/turbine manufacturing and packaging environment. The company
designs, manufactures, markets and sells diesel, heavy fuel and natural gas
reciprocating engines for Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation
systems; on-highway vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum, construction,
industrial, agricultural and other applications.  In addition,
Caterpillar provides industrial turbines and turbine related services for oil
and gas and power generation applications.  

Page 2 

The competitive environment for
reciprocating engines in marine, petroleum, construction, industrial,
agriculture and electric power generation systems along with turbines consists
of a few global competitors who compete in a variety of Caterpillar s markets,
and a larger set of companies who compete in a limited size range and/or
application. Principal global competitors include, but are not limited to,
Cummins Inc., MTU Friedrichshafen and MTU Detroit Diesel (both part of Tognum
GmbH) and Wartsila Corp. Other competitors, such as John Deere Power Systems
(part of Deere   Co.), Siemens Power Generation (part of Siemens AG), GE
Energy, MAN AG, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries LTD and Volvo Penta (part of Volvo
Group AB) compete in a portion of Caterpillar s markets. An additional set of
competitors, including Generac Power Systems, Inc., Kohler Co., Kawasaki Heavy
Industries, Ltd., Rolls-Royce Group plc and others, are packagers who source
engines and/or other components from domestic and international suppliers and
market products regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution
channels.  

In the North American on-highway
heavy-duty and mid-range diesel engine markets, competitors include, but are not
limited to, Cummins Inc.,  Detroit Diesel Corp. and Mercedes-Benz (both
part of Daimler AG), Navistar International Corp. and  Volvo Group AB . O n-highway diesel engine competitors in
overseas markets include, but are not limited to, Mercedes-Benz and Mitsubishi
Fuso Truck   Bus Corp. (both part of Daimler AG), DAF Trucks N.V., Iveco
Motors (part of Fiat S.p.A), MAN AG, Scania AB and Volvo Group AB. Some of these
competitors are truck and/or bus manufacturers with proprietary diesel engines
who also offer engines from independent manufacturers such as
Caterpillar.  

Since the introduction of our four
engine models with ACERT  Technology beginning in 2003, Caterpillar has shipped
over 550,000 ACERT engines into the North American on-highway truck
market.   Customer acceptance of Caterpillar engine performance,
quality and reliability continues to be strong, as evidenced by receiving a J.D.
Power and Associates Award in customer satisfaction in 2007 for an unprecedented
seventh year.  

Caterpillar also
continued to focus investment and resources on leveraging ACERT Technology into
off-road markets, as well as into more of our engine platforms. The building
blocks for ACERT Technology are very flexible and scaleable and are being
applied as needed based on engine platform and application.  From
October 2004 through year-end 2007, Caterpillar has shipped over 65,000
Caterpillar machines powered by engines with ACERT Technology.  A line
of ACERT industrial, electric power and marine engines has been released to
further leverage the technology throughout Caterpillar s businesses and engine
platforms. 

We believe ACERT
provides Caterpillar a valuable foundation now and in the future to meet
emissions and performance requirements, and we plan to continue investing in
developing and leveraging ACERT Technology systems and components. 

Caterpillar s
remanufacturing business provides services for a variety of products and
services to Caterpillar and other external clients.  The
remanufacturing business competes on a regional basis with similarly sized or
smaller companies.  The company launched the remanufacturing business
in the 1970s with engines/turbines and is now one of the world s largest
remanufacturers, processing more than two million units annually and recycling
more than 100 million pounds of remanufactured products each
year.   The business continues to grow at rates well above that
of the global economy as a whole. 

Financial   Products          

Cat Financial,
incorporated in Delaware, is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of
Caterpillar.  Cat Financial's primary business is to provide retail
financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers around the
world.  Such retail financing is primarily comprised of financing of
Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines.  In addition, Cat
Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and
marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products.  In addition to retail financing,
 Cat Financial provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers and
purchases short-term dealer receivables from Caterpillar.   The various financing plans offered by
Cat Financial are designed to increase the opportunity for sales of Caterpillar
products and generate financing income for Cat Financial.  A
significant portion of Cat Financial's activities is conducted in North
America.  However, Cat Financial has additional offices and
subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Europe and Latin
America.  

For over 25 years,
Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it
participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends,
product structuring and customer needs. 

Page 3 

In certain
instances, Cat Financial's operations are subject to supervision and regulation
by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be
subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing
various requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate
credit granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish
maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require
disclosures to customers, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection,
foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use
and reporting of information related to a borrower's credit
experience. 

Cat Financial's
retail financing leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 64 percent*)
include: 

Tax leases
      that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial
      accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the
      lease.  For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner
      of the equipment (18 percent*). 

Finance
      (non-tax) leases where the lessee is considered the owner of the equipment
      during the term of the lease, and the agreement either requires or allows
      the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price at the end of the
      term  (20
      percent*).  

Installment
      sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to
      purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structured payments
      over time (25 percent*). 

Governmental
      lease-purchase plans in the United States that offer low interest rates
      and flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1
      percent*). 

Retail notes
receivables (21 percent*) include: 

Loans that
      allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment as
      collateral to obtain financing. 

Wholesale notes
receivables, finance leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 15
percent*) include: 

Inventory/rental
      programs which provide assistance to dealers by financing their inventory,
      rental fleets and rental facilities  (6
      percent*).  

Short-term
      dealer receivables that Cat Financial purchases from Caterpillar and
      subsidiaries at a discount (9
percent*). 

__________ 

        *Indicates the
percentage of Cat Financial's total portfolio at December 31,
2007.  We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of
unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating
leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat
Financial's concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 8    Finance
receivables  of Exhibit 13. 

The retail
financing business is highly competitive, with financing for users of
Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally
commercial banks and finance and leasing companies.  Cat Financial's
competitors include CIT Group Inc.; CitiCapital, a business unit of Citigroup;
General Electric Capital Corporation and various local banks and finance
companies.  In addition, many of our manufacturing competitors use
below-market interest rate programs (subsidized by the manufacturer) to assist
machine sales.  Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide
a broad array of financial merchandising programs around the world to respond to
these competing offers. 

Cat Financial's results are largely
dependent upon Caterpillar dealers' ability to sell equipment and customers'
willingness to enter into financing or leasing agreements.  It is also
affected by the availability of funds from its financing sources and general
economic conditions such as inflation and market interest
rates.  

Cat Financial has a "match funding"
policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile
(fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate
profile of its receivable portfolio (loans and leases with customers and
dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis.  In
connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with a similar interest
rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate swap agreements to
manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some
cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds. For more information regarding match
funding, please see Note 3    Derivative financial instruments and risk
management  of Exhibit 13.  

Page 4 

In managing foreign currency risk for
Cat Financial's operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility
resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance
sheet positions.  This policy allows the use of foreign currency
forward and option contracts to address the risk of currency mismatch between
the receivable and debt portfolios.  None of these foreign currency
forward and option contracts are designated as a hedge.  

Cat Financial
provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met.  Credit
decisions are based on, among other things, the customer's credit history,
financial strength and equipment application.  Cat Financial typically
maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical
damage insurance coverage on financed equipment.  Cat Financial
finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers' sales and inventory of
Caterpillar equipment, especially in North America.  Cat Financial's
competitive position is improved by marketing programs, subsidized by
Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers, which allow it to offer below-market
interest rates.  Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the dealer,
subsidizes an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat Financial then
recognizes as revenue over the term of the financing.  Transaction
processing time and supporting technologies continue to drive Cat Financial in
its efforts to respond quickly to customers and improve internal processing
efficiencies.  We believe Cat Financial's web-based Cat Financ Express  SM 
transaction processing and information tool currently available in the United
States, France, Canada and Australia provides Cat Financial a competitive
advantage in those areas.  Cat Financ Express  collects information
on-line to provide finance quotes and credit decisions and then prints the
related documents, all in a very short time frame. 

Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in
Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of
Insurance.  The insurance company is licensed to conduct property and
casualty insurance business in 49 states and the District of Columbia, and as
such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well.  The State of
Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and monitors Caterpillar
Insurance Company s financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with
minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by
the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  

Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a
wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in
Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of
Insurance.  The insurance company is licensed to conduct life and
accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of
Columbia, and as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of
Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial
status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as
well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of
Insurance Commissioners.  Caterpillar Life Insurance Company also
provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary Employees'
Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of salaried
retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA.  

Caterpillar
Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance is a captive
insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary
Authority.   Caterpillar
Insurance Co. Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance
Amendment Act of 1995), which primarily insures affiliates and, as such, the
Bermuda Monetary Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of
monitoring compliance with solvency requirements.  

Caterpillar Product Services
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company
domiciled in Missouri.   It conducts a machine extended service
contract program in Italy, France and Germany by providing machine extended
warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in those
countries.  

Caterpillar Insurance Services
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a Tennessee
insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District of
Columbia.  It provides brokerage services for all property and
casualty and life and health lines of business.  

Caterpillar s insurance group provides
protection for claims under the following programs:  

Contractual
      Liability Insurance to Caterpillar dealers and Original Equipment
      Manufacturers (OEMs) for extended service contracts (parts and labor)
      offered by third party dealers and
OEMs. 

Cargo
      insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar
      products. 

Contractors'
      Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by
      Caterpillar s OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party
      dealers. 

Page 5 

General
      liability, employer's liability, auto liability and property insurance for
      Caterpillar. 

Mortgagee s
      Interest Insurance to Cat Financial for its marine loan
      portfolio. 

Retiree
      Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the
    VEBA. 

Brokerage
      services for property and casualty and life and health
      business. 

Cat Power Ventures,
a wholly owned   subsidiary of
Caterpillar, primarily invested equity and took ownership interests in power
generation projects throughout the world that utilize Caterpillar power
generation equipment. In some cases, these projects also utilize construction
and operations and maintenance services that are provided by other Caterpillar
subsidiaries. Cat Power Ventures has investments in power projects in Poland,
the Dominican Republic and Tunisia and has created direct and indirect
subsidiaries and affiliates to hold these investments.  In December
2005, Cat Power Ventures decided that it would no longer invest equity in power
generation projects.  As a result, Cat Power Ventures will not make
any new equity investments in power generation projects and will sell its
project investment portfolio. 

Business
Developments in 2007  

         In 2007, Caterpillar   continued to focus on the execution of
our Vision 2020 strategy that was   introduced in
2005.    Through
Vision 2020, we established key enterprise goals for 2010 grouped under the
 3Ps  of people, performance and profitable growth.  Our people goals
include a highly engaged workforce and world-class safety.  The
performance, product and process goals are related to improved quality and
market leadership in every major product group we serve.  The
profitable growth goals include a 2010 sales and revenues target and earnings
per share growth.  

Strategy Update  

        In April 2007, the
company s Chairman and CEO, Jim Owens, updated analysts and investors on the
execution of the company s strategy.  Highlights of the 2007 status
update include: 

Implementation
      of the Caterpillar Production System (CPS) expected to improve safety,
      employee engagement, dealer repair frequency, product availability,
      inventory turns and labor productivity through
  2010; 

Improvement
      in recordable injuries and lost time
cases; 

Continued
      growth in China; and 

Continued
      planning to managing earnings per share and return on assets in a trough
      cycle. 

Financial
Results and Stockholder Value 

         Further progress toward financial goals
and increased stockholder value was made in 2007.  Full year 2007
results marked the fifth straight year of record sales and revenues and the
fourth consecutive year of record profit for Caterpillar, including sales and
revenues of $44.958 billion and profit of $3.541 billion, or $5.37 per
share.  We also reduced the number of shares outstanding by
repurchasing 33.5 million shares in 2007 at a cost of  $2.405 billion
in support of our Board authorized $7.5 billion stock repurchase program
approved in February 2007 to be completed by 2011.  

Caterpillar
Production System 

        We continued our
internal focus on global deployment of CPS with 6
Sigma.  Implementation of CPS is fundamental to reaching our 2010
goals to reduce product availability by three times and improve inventory turns
by more than 40 percent. 

Sustainability 

        In 2007, the
company continued our efforts in sustainable development and commitment to make
sustainable development a "strategic area of improvement" in our enterprise
strategy.  The company was selected as a member of the Dow Jones
Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) for the seventh consecutive
year.  DJSI uses a best-in-class approach designed to identify best
practices across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of corporate
sustainability.  In October 2007, Caterpillar received a prestigious
J.D. Power and Associates Award for ranking highest in customer satisfaction in
the  Pickup and Delivery  category of their 2007 Heavy Duty Truck
Engine/Transmission Customer Satisfaction Study.  This award is the
tenth Caterpillar has received from J.D. Power and Associates for heavy-duty
truck engine customer satisfaction. 

Page 6 

Growth in China  

         In 2007, the company made progress
toward its  commitment to continue expansion of our business in China in
support of our overall enterprise strategy and Vision 2020. 

In March
      2007, Caterpillar Marine Asia Pacific, the regional headquarters of
      Caterpillar Marine Power Systems in Shanghai, P. R. China, moved to a new
      office shared with Lei Shing Hong Machinery Ltd., Caterpillar s marine
      dealer for Eastern China.  This move better allows Caterpillar
      Marine Asia Pacific to serve the fast-growing marine markets in China, as
      well as India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and
      Australia. 

As part of
      our long-term strategic plan to support manufacturing growth in China and
      at its operations around the world, Caterpillar celebrated the grand
      opening of new manufacturing operations in Wuxi, China in May
      2007.  The Wuxi campus is located in Jiangsu Province in East
      China and includes nearly 47 acres.  Caterpillar (China)
      Machinery Components Co. Ltd. (CCMC), a wholly owned Caterpillar company,
      will manufacture a range of components to be used primarily in Caterpillar
      machines and to be sold to select original equipment manufacturers
      (OEMs).  Using leased buildings, Caterpillar has produced
      hydraulic hose assemblies in Wuxi since mid-2006 and it has fabricated and
      assembled cabs for core Caterpillar machines since early
      2007.  The establishment of the Wuxi campus for key components
      is an important element in our enterprise strategy for 2010, as we
      continue to support our growing customer base in China and other key Asian
      markets. 

In August
      2007, Caterpillar announced a major investment In China with plans to
      build state-of-the-art small and medium diesel engines in Wuxi, Jiangsu
      Province, China.  Caterpillar signed a non-binding memorandum of
      understanding with the Wuxi National High-Tech Industrial Development Zone
      outlining a significant multi-year investment to develop and manufacture
      Perkins and Caterpillar branded engines in Wuxi.  Construction
      of the engine facilities in Wuxi is subject to a final agreement being
      reached between Caterpillar and the Wuxi government and to other
      applicable approvals.  The plan to build these engines in China
      demonstrates our long-term commitment to this critically important market
      and to our customers. 

Other Growth
Initiatives  

         In support of our efforts toward
achieving market leadership and planning for performance through a trough cycle,
Caterpillar took the following actions during 2007.  

In February 2007, Caterpillar
      acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Franklin Power
      Products and International Fuel Systems, Inc., subsidiaries of Remy
      International.    The acquisition increased our overall
      product and service offering and provided a platform for future growth
      opportunities for remanufactured
products. 

In February
      2007, Caterpillar, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (MHI) and Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) signed a nonbinding memorandum of
      understanding to conclude a plan that would result in a new ownership
      structure for SCM, whereby Caterpillar would own the majority of the
      outstanding shares of SCM and MHI would own the remaining
      shares.  As of the end of 2007, definitive agreements for the
      plan had not yet been finalized. 

In April
      2007, Caterpillar completed its purchase of Eurenov S.A.S. (Eurenov), a
      remanufacturer of engines, transmissions and components for leading
      European automotive manufacturers. Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services
      (Cat Reman) recently concluded the two-phase purchase process, which was
      first announced in June 2005. Eurenov operates its primary facility in
      Chaumont, France, and another facility in Radom, Poland.  The
      acquisition strengthens our position in the remanufacturing market by
      allowing Cat Reman greater access to the European automotive and
      industrial engine and transmission remanufacturing market with expansion
      into Eastern Europe. 

In November
      2007, Caterpillar acquired the assets of  Blount International,
      Inc. 's Forestry Division. The acquisition included manufacturing
      and other facilities that will join Caterpillar's global facilities that
      produce and support forestry equipment. Since 2003, Caterpillar and Blount
      have had an agreement to jointly produce and market products globally
      under the Caterpillar and former Timberking brands. The acquisition of
      Blount's operations will bring all product design, development and
      manufacturing under Caterpillar and support our corporate objective to be
      the forestry market leader.  Cat Forest Products now offers the
      broadest product line in the industry with a full range of products and
      services for logging, millyard, road-building and land
      management. 

Page 7 

In December
      2007, six Caterpillar dealers purchased certain assets of PMHC LLC (the
      Pioneer group), including Pioneer Machinery LLC, a premier distributor of
      forestry products in the southeastern United States.  Prior to
      this sale, PMHC LLC and its operating companies were jointly owned by
      Caterpillar and these six Caterpillar dealers, whose service territories
      cover the same area of the southeastern United States.  As a
      result of the sale, operations of the Pioneer group were transitioned to
      these six Caterpillar dealers.  This strategic move is expected
      to strengthen Caterpillar's Customer Support Network in the Forestry
      Industry and enhance the Company's ability to serve its forestry customers
      in the southeastern United States, while also providing better continuity
      for the strong Pioneer brand and the Company's forestry product
      distribution channel with that of the traditional Caterpillar dealer
      business model.  The Caterpillar dealers involved in the
      transaction were Blanchard Machinery, Carolina Tractor, Carter Machinery,
      Gregory Poole, Ring Power and Yancey
Brothers. 

Acquisitions
and Alliances  

         Information related to acquisitions and
alliances appears in Note 25      Alliances and
acquisitions    of Exhibit
13.  

Order
Backlog  

         The dollar amount of backlog believed to
be firm was approximately $17.8 billion at December 31, 2007, and $14.5 billion
at December 31, 2006.  Of the total backlog, approximately $2.5
billion at December 31, 2007, and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2006, was not
expected to be filled in the following year.  Our backlog is generally
highest in the first and second quarters because of seasonal buying trends in
our industry.  

Dealers  

         Our machines are distributed
principally through a worldwide organization of independent dealers (dealer
network ), 53 
located in the United States and 128 located outside the United
States.  Worldwide, these dealers serve 182 countries and
 operate  3,645
  places of
business, including 1,606     dealer rental outlets.
 Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and
to other manufacturers for use in their products. Some of the reciprocating
engines manufactured by Perkins Engines Company Limited (Perkins) also are sold
through a worldwide network of 132 distributors located in 181
countries.   The FG Wilson branded electric power generation
systems are sold through a worldwide network of 200 dealers located in 180
countries. 

These dealers do
not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and
servicing of our products are the dealers' principal
businesses.  Turbines and large medium speed reciprocating engines are
sold through sales forces employed by the company.  At times, these
employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

The company's
relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard
sales and service agreement.  Pursuant to this agreement, the company
grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the
products in a specified geographic service territory.  Prices to
dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on
transactional pricing in the marketplace.  The company also agrees to
defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support
to the dealer.  The agreement further grants the dealer a
non-exclusive license to use the company's trademarks, service marks and brand
names.  In some instances a separate trademark agreement exists
between the company and a dealer. 

In exchange for
these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale
of the company's products to current and prospective customers in the dealer's
service territory.  Each dealer specifically agrees to employ adequate
sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company's products,
demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company's product improvement
programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe
operation of any of the company's products and maintain detailed books and
records of the dealer's financial condition, sales and inventories and make
these books and records available at the company's reasonable
request. 

These sales and
service agreements are terminable at will by either party upon 90 days written
notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for
bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking
protection from creditors. 

Page 8 

Patents
and Trademarks   

         Our products are sold primarily under
the brands "Caterpillar," "CAT," design versions of "CAT" and "Caterpillar,"
"Solar Turbines," "MaK," "Perkins," "FG Wilson," "Olympian" and  Progress
Rail.   We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been
obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we manufacture and
the services we provide.  These patents and trademarks have been of
value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the
future.  We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon
any single patent or group of patents.  

Research and
Development  

        We have always
placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to
the development of new or improved machines, engines and major
components.  In 2007, 2006 and 2005, we spent $1,404  million,  $1,347 million and
$1,084 million, or 3.1 percent, 3.2 percent and 3.0 percent of our sales and
revenues, respectively, on our research and development programs. 

Employment  

        As of December 31,
2007, we employed 101,333 persons of whom 50,788 were located outside the United
States.  From a global, enterprise perspective, we believe our
relationship with our employees is very good.  We build and maintain a
productive, motivated workforce by treating all employees fairly and
equitably. 

In the United States, most of our 50,545
employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of
employment contract or agreement.  At select business units, certain
highly specialized employees have been hired under employment contracts that
specify a term of employment and specify pay and other
benefits.  

As of December 31, 2007, there were
15,045 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by collective
bargaining agreements with various labor unions.  The United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents
12,235 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement that will
expire March 1, 2011.  The International Association of Machinists
represents 2,002 employees under labor agreements that expire on May 23, 2010,
and April 30, 2012.  

Outside the United States, the company
enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such
relationships are mandatory or customary.  The provisions of these
agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the
subject jurisdiction.  

Sales  

         Sales outside the United States were 63
percent of consolidated sales for 2007  ,   54 percent  for 2006 and 53
percent for 2005 .  

Environmental
Matters  

         The company is regulated by federal,
state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and
disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our
manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of
our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air
emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. Compliance with
these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures,
earnings or global competitive position.  

We are engaged in remedial activities at
a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state
laws.  When it is reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a
site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against
our earnings.  In formulating that estimate, we do not consider
amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or
others.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not
material and  is included in the line item  Accrued Expenses  in Statement
2    Consolidated Financial Position at December 31   of Exhibit 13.  

We cannot reasonably estimate costs at
sites in the very early stages of remediation.  Currently, we have a
few sites in the very early stages of remediation, and there is no more than a
remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual
site, or at all sites in the aggregate, will be required.  

Page 9 

Available
Information  

         The company files electronically with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form
10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders
as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and any other form
or report as required.  The public may read and copy any materials the
company has filed with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, N.E., Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
(800) SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site (  www.sec.gov  ) that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC.  Copies of our annual report on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any
amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free
of charge through our Internet site (  www.CAT.com/secfilings  ) as soon as reasonably practicable
after filing with the SEC.  Copies of our board committee charters,
our board's Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct
and other corporate governance information are available on our Internet site
(  www.CAT.com/governance  ), or upon written request to the
Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams Street, Peoria, Illinois
61629-7310.  

Additional company information may
be obtained as follows:  

Current information
- -  

phone our Information Hotline -
      (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080 (outside U.S. or Canada)
      to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of
      Caterpillar's latest financial results and current outlook, or to request
      a copy of results by facsimile or
mail  

request, view, or download
      materials on-line or register for email alerts at   www.CAT.com/materialsrequest  

Historical information
      -  

view/download on-line at
        www.CAT.com/historical  

Item
      1A.  Risk
Factors.  

The statements in
this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be
considered carefully in conjunction with the  Management s Discussion and
Analysis   of Exhibit
13.   In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary
statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The
discussion and analysis in this Form 10-K and in our 2007 Annual Report to
Stockholders that are forward-looking and involve uncertainties that could
significantly impact results. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking
statements in other materials we issue to the public or in the form of oral
presentation to the public. Forward-looking statements give current expectations
or forecasts of future events about the company. You can identify these
statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by
the use of words such as "believe," "expect," "estimate," "anticipate," "will
be," "should,"  plan,   project,   intend,   could,  and similar words or
expressions that identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of
Caterpillar. 

In particular,
these forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions,
prospective products, products  approvals, future performance or results of
current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates,
foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies and financial results. The
statements are based on assumptions or on known or unknown risks and
uncertainties. Although, we believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, we
cannot guarantee the realization of these statements. Achievement of future
results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate
assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ
from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. Uncertainties
include factors that affect international businesses, as well as matters
specific to the company and the markets it serves. 

The company
undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether
as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You may; however,
consult any further related disclosures we make in our Form 10-Q or any Form 8-K
reports to the SEC. 

The following is a
cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe
are significant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the
aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from
expected and past results. You should note it is impossible to predict or
identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the
following factors to be a complete discussion of risks and
uncertainties. 

Page 10 

Changes in
Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies  

        Most countries have
established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic
activities, generally by adjusting interest rates.  Interest rate
changes affect overall economic growth, which alter demand for residential and
nonresidential structures, energy and mined products, which in turn affect sales
of our products that serve these activities.  Also, interest rates
affect customers  abilities to finance machine purchases and can change the
optimal time to keep machines in a fleet.  Our outlooks typically
include assumptions about interest rates in a number of
countries.  Interest rates higher than those assumptions could result
in lower sales than anticipated. 

Government policies
on taxes and spending affect our businesses.  Throughout the world,
government spending finances much infrastructure development, such as highways,
airports, sewer and water systems and dams.  Tax regulations determine
depreciation lives and the amount of money users can retain, both of which
influence investment decisions.  Developments more unfavorable than
anticipated, such as declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public
spending or increases in taxes, could negatively impact our
results. 

Government can also
impact international trade and investment through a variety of policies, such as
import quotas, inspections, capital controls or tariffs.  Developments
worse than anticipated in the outlook, which could include lower import quotas,
more detailed inspections or higher tariffs, could negatively impact our
results. 

Environmental
Regulations  

        Our facilities and
operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and
regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air,
discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation,
treatment and disposal of general, non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials.
While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these
environmental laws and regulations, we cannot ensure that we will not be
adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or
subsequently acquired operations, under present laws and regulations or those
that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 

Particularly our
engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing
emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory
agencies in the U.S. and other various regulatory agencies around the
world.  For instance, governments may set new standards that could
impact our operations in ways that are difficult to anticipate with
accuracy.  Thus, significant changes in standards, or the adoption of
new standards, have the potential to impact our results negatively. 

Changes in
Economic Conditions of Industries We Serve  

        The energy and
mining industries are major users of our machines and
engines.  Decisions to purchase our machines and engines are dependent
upon performance of these industries. If demand of output in these industries
increases, the demand for our products would likely increase and vice
versa.  Prices of commodities in these industries are frequently
volatile and change in response to economic growth, commodity inventories and
any disruptions in production.  We assume certain prices for key
commodities in preparing our outlooks.  Commodity prices lower than
those assumed have the potential to negatively impact our sales. 

The rates of
infrastructure spending, housing starts, and commercial construction, play a
significant role in our results.  Our products are an integral
component of these activities, and as these activities increase or decrease in
the U.S. or abroad, demand for our products may be significantly
impacted. 

Changes in
Price and Significant Shortages of Component Products  

        We are a
significant user of steel and many commodities required for the manufacture of
our products.  So, increases in the prices of such commodities likely
would boost costs higher than expected, negatively impacting
profits. 

We rely on
suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the
manufacture of our products. A disruption in deliveries from our suppliers or
decreased in availability of such components or commodities could have an
adverse affect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase
our operating costs. We believe our source of supply of raw materials will be
generally sufficient for our need in the foreseeable future. However, our
results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted should
the supply turn out to be insufficient for our operations. 

Page 11 

Currency
Fluctuations  

        The reporting
currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets,
liabilities, expenses and revenues, are denominated in currencies other than the
U.S. dollar. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate
those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the
applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of
the U.S. dollar vis- -vis other currencies will affect the amount of these items
in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in
their original currency.  This
could have significant impact on our results if such increase or decrease in the
value of the U.S. dollar is substantial . 

Dealer/Original
Equipment Manufacturers Sourcing Practices  

        We sell finished
products through an independent dealer network or directly to
OEMs.  Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing
operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future
needs.  Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or
negatively. 

In particular, some
of our engine customers are truck manufacturers or OEMs that manufacture or
could in the future manufacture engines for their own
products.  Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these
customers have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due
to the quality of our engine products and in order to reduce costs, eliminate
production risks and maintain company focus.  However, we cannot
assure that these customers will continue to outsource engine manufacture in the
future. Increased levels of production insourcing by these customers could
result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers  business
strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the
inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of
low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries.  A significant
reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our truck
manufacturers or OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and,
accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. 

Impact of
Acquisitions  

        We may from time to
time engage in acquisitions involving some potential risks, including failure to
successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such
acquisitions.  For example, with any past or future acquisitions,
there is the possibility that: 

the business
      culture of the acquired business may not match well with our
      culture; 

technological
      and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not
      occur as expected; 

the company
      may acquire or assume unexpected
liabilities; 

unforeseen
      difficulties may arise in integrating operations and
    systems; 

the company
      may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired
      business; 

higher than
      expected finance costs due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade,
      environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any
      jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations;
      and 

the company
      may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer
      bases. 

Failure to continue
implementing the company s acquisition strategy, including successfully
integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Competition  

        We operate in a
highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of the
company's share of industry sales predicated on our ability to compete with
others in the marketplace.  The company competes on the basis of
product performance, customer service, quality and price. There can be no
assurance that our product will be able to compete successfully with these other
companies. Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive
pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or
manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively or
an unexpected buildup in competitors' new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets,
leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used
equipment prices. 

The environment
remains competitive from a pricing standpoint. Our sales outlook assumes certain
price increases that we announced from time to time will hold in the
marketplace.  While we expect that the environment will continue to
absorb these price actions, changes in marketplace acceptance would negatively
impact our results.  Moreover, additional price discounting to
maintain our competitive position could result in lower than anticipated
realization. 

Page 12 

In addition, our
results and ability to compete may be impacted positively or negatively by
changes in the sales mix.  Our outlook assumes a certain geographic
mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales.  If actual results
vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could
be negatively impacted. 

Litigation
and Contingency  

        We face an inherent
business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits. We are
involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty,
environmental claims and lawsuits, including other legal proceedings that arise
in the ordinary course of our business. Although it is not possible to predict
with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit, we believe these lawsuits
and claims will not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on
our results. However, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into
settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations in any particular period. In addition, while we
maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, we may not be able
to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any
such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such
claims. 

As required by U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves based on our
assessment of such contingencies.  Subsequent developments in legal
proceedings, may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency
recorded as a reserve requiring us to make additional materials payments, which
could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Risks to
Global Operations  

        Our global
operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the
U.S. and internationally, countries with political and economic instability,
exposing our business operations to certain political and economic risks
inherent in operating in some countries. These risks include: 

changes in
      regulations; imposition of currency restrictions and other
      restraints; 

imposition of
      burdensome tariffs and quotas; 

national and
      international conflict, including terrorist acts;
  and 

economic
      downturns, political instability and war or civil unrest may severely
      disrupt economic activity in affected
countries. 

As
a  normal 
practice, we do not assume such events in our outlooks unless already happening
when the outlook is issued.  So the occurrence of one of these events
has the potential to negatively impact our results.  

Risks
to Financial Services Segment  

           Inherent
in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its
customers.  The creditworthiness of each customer, and the rate of
delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly
impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, relevant industry
and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and
expertise of the customer's management team, commodity prices, political events
and the sustained value of the underlying collateral.  

Changes
in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market liquidity
conditions could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and cash
flows.  Because a significant amount of loans made by us are made at
fixed interest rates, our business is subject to fluctuations in interest
rates.  Changes in market interest rates may influence our financing
costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative
contracts and could reduce our earnings and cash flows.  In addition,
since we make a significant amount of loans in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could also reduce our
earnings and cash flows.  We also rely on a number of diversified
global debt capital markets and funding programs to provide liquidity for our
global operations, including commercial paper, medium term notes, retail notes,
variable denomination floating rate demand notes, asset-backed securitizations
and bank loans.   Significant changes in market liquidity
conditions could impact our access to funding and the associated funding cost
and reduce our earnings and cash flows.  Although we manage interest
rate, foreign currency exchange rate and market liquidity risks with a variety
of techniques, including a match funding program, the selective use of
derivatives and a broadly diversified funding program, there can be no assurance
that fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates and market
liquidity conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our earnings and
cash flows.  If any of the variety of instruments and strategies we
use to hedge our exposure to these various types of risk are ineffective, we may
incur losses.  

Page 13 

With
respect to our insurance and investment management operations, changes in the
equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of our investment
portfolio, thus requiring a negative adjustment to earnings.  

Market
Acceptance of Products  

        Our business relies
on continued global demand for our brands and products.  To achieve
business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers,
OEMs and customers.  This is dependent on a number of factors
including our ability to manage and maintain key dealer relationships and our
ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing
programs.  In addition, our continued success is dependent on
leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and
operations.  This means we must be able to obtain patents that lead to
the development of products that appeal to our consumers across the
world.  Failure to continue to deliver quality and competitive
products to the marketplace, or to predict market demands for, or gain market
acceptance of, our products, could have material impact on our
business. 

Natural
Disasters  

        The occurrence of
one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes and
other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in a country in which we operate or
in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and
financial performance.  Such events could result in physical damage to
and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities
or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of
component products from some local and overseas suppliers, disruption in the
transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of
our products to our distribution centers. 

For instance, on
February 5, 2008, a certain portion of our facility in Oxford, Mississippi that
manufactures hose couplings for most of our machinery was physically damaged by
a tornado. For the next few months, assembly operations covering a broad range
of machinery will be sporadically impacted as a result of the tornado damage.
This event could adversely impact our results. 

Not
applicable. 

Page 14 

Item 2.
      Properties.  

General
Information  

         Caterpillar's operations are highly
integrated.  Although the majority of our plants are involved
primarily in the production of either machines or engines, several plants are
involved in the manufacturing of both.  In addition, several plants
are involved in the manufacturing of components which are used in the assembly
of both machines and engines.  Caterpillar's parts distribution
centers are involved in the storage and distribution of parts for machines and
engines.  Also, the research and development activities carried on at
our Technical Center involve both machines and engines.  

Properties we own are believed to be
generally well maintained and adequate for present use.  Through
planned capital expenditures, we expect these properties to remain adequate for
future needs.  Properties we lease are covered by leases expiring over
terms of generally one to ten years.  We anticipate no difficulty in
retaining occupancy of any leased facilities, either by renewing leases prior to
expiration or by replacing them with equivalent leased
facilities.  

Headquarters
and Other Key Offices  

         Our corporate headquarters are in
Peoria, Illinois.  Additional marketing headquarters are located both
inside and outside the United States.  The Financial Products Division
is headquartered in leased offices located in Nashville,
Tennessee.  

Distribution  

         Distribution of our parts is conducted
from parts distribution centers inside and outside the United States. Cat
Logistics distributes other companies' products, utilizing certain of our
distribution facilities as well as other non-Caterpillar facilities located both
inside and outside the United States.  We also own or lease other
storage facilities that support distribution activities.  

Changes in
Fixed Assets  

         During the five years ended December 31,
2007, changes in our investment in property, plant and equipment were as follows
(stated in millions of dollars):  

At December 31, 2007, the net book value
of properties located outside the United States represented about 44.2 percent
of the net book value of all properties reflected in our consolidated financial
position.  Additional information about our investment in property,
plant and equipment appears in Note 1F    Depreciation and amortization  and
Note 10    Property, plant and equipment  of Exhibit 13.  

Technical
Center, Training Centers, Demonstration Areas and Proving
Grounds  

         We own a Technical Center located in
Mossville, Illinois, and various other training centers, demonstration areas and
proving grounds located both inside and outside the United
States.  

Manufacturing,
Remanufacturing, and Overhaul  

         Manufacturing, remanufacturing and
overhaul of our products are conducted primarily at the following
locations.  These facilities are believed to be suitable for their
intended purposes with adequate capacities for current and projected needs for
existing products.  

Page 15 

Inside
      the U.S. 

Kansas  

Ohio  

Surrey 

Malaysia  

Arkansas  

Fort
      Scott 

Dayton 1  

Winnipeg 

Kuala
      Lumpur 1  

Little
      Rock 

Lawrence 

Pennsylvania  

England  

Mexico  

Alabama  

Wamego 

Steelton 

Barwell 

Monterrey 

Albertville 

Kentucky  

South
    Carolina  

Desford 

Nuevo
      Laredo 

Montgomery 

Ashland 

Greenville 

Ferndown 

Reynosa 

California  

Corbin 

Jackson 

Peterborough 

Saltillo 

Gardena 

Danville 

Lexington 

Peterlee 

Santa
      Catarina 

Mohave 

Decoursey 

Newberry 

Skinningrove 

Tijuana 

Rocklin 

Louisville 

Summerville 

Rushden 

Torreon 

San
      Diego 

Mayfield 

Sumter 

Shrewsbury 

Veracruz 

Colorado  

Raceland 

Tennessee  

Stafford 

The
    Netherlands  

Pueblo 

Louisiana  

Dyersburg 

Stockton 

Almere 

Florida  

New
      Orleans 

Knoxville 

Wimborne 

Den
      Bosch 

Jacksonville 

Michigan  

Texas  

Wolverhampton 

s'-Hertogenbosch 

Wildwood 

Menominee 

Amarillo 

France  

Nigeria  

Georgia  

Minnesota  

Channelview 

Arras 

Port
      Harcourt 2  

Alpharetta 

Grand
      Rapids 1  

De
      Soto 

Chaumont 1  

Northern
      Ireland  

Griffin 

Minneapolis 

Mabank 

Echirolles 

Larne 

Jefferson 

New
      Ulm 

San
      Antonio 

Grenoble 

Monkstown 

LaGrange 

Owatonna 

Sherman 

Rantigny 

Springvale 

Patterson 

Mississippi  

Waco 

Germany  

Peoples
      Republic  

Thomasville 

Corinth 

Waskom 

Kiel 

of China  

Toccoa 

Oxford 

Virginia  

Rostock 

Erliban 1  

Illinois  

Prentiss
      County 

Petersburg 

Hungary  

Foshan 

Alorton 

Missouri  

Roanoke 

G d ll  

Qingzhou 1  

Aurora 

Boonville 

Wisconsin  

India  

Shanghai 

Champaign 1  

Kansas
      City 

Prentice 

Bangalore 

Tianjin 2  

Chicago 

West
      Plains 

Wyoming  

Pondicherry 

Wuxi 

Decatur 

Montana  

Bill 

Thiruvallur 

Xuzhou 2  

Dixon 

Laurel 

Laramie 

Indonesia  

Poland  

East
      Peoria 

Nebraska  

Rock
      Springs 

Bandung 2  

Janow
      Lubelski 

Granite
      City 

Alliance 

Outside
      the U.S. 

Jakarta 

Radom 1  

Joliet 

Gering 

Australia  

Italy  

Sosnowiec 

Mapleton 

Lincoln 

Burnie 

Anagni 

Russia  

Mossville 

Northport 

Melbourne 

Atessa 

Tosno 

Peoria 

Sidney 

Wivenhoe 

Bazzano 

Scotland 

Pontiac 

South
      Morrill 

Belgium  

Fano 

Aberdeen 

Sterling 

Nevada  

Gosselies 

Frosinone 

South
  Africa  

Woodridge 1  

Sparks 

Brazil  

Jesi 

Boksburg 

Indiana  

North
    Carolina  

Curitiba 

Marignano 

Switzerland  

Charlestown 

Clayton 

Parana 

Milan 

Riazzino 

East
      Chicago 

Franklin 

Piracicaba 

Minerbio 

Tunisia 

Franklin 

Morganton 

Canada  

Japan  

Sfax 

Lafayette 

Sanford 

Edmonton 

Akashi 1  

Zebulon 

Montreal 

Sagamihara 1  

1   
                      Facility of affiliated company
      (50 percent or less owned)   

2   
                      Facility of partially owned
      subsidiary (more than 50 percent, less than 100
  percent)   

Page 16 

Item
      3.  Legal
Proceedings.  

We have disclosed certain individual
legal proceedings in this filing.  Additionally, we are involved in
other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course of business. The
most prevalent  of these unresolved actions  involve disputes related to product
design, manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and
welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues or intellectual property
rights.   Although it is not possible to predict with certainty
the outcome of these unresolved legal actions we believe that these actions will
not individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
operations.  

On May 14, 2007, the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of Violation to Caterpillar Inc.,
alleging various violations of Clean Air Act Sections 203, 206 and
207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar violated such sections by shipping
engines and catalytic converter after-treatment devices separately, introducing
into commerce a number of uncertified and/or misbuilt engines, and failing to
timely report emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is currently
engaging in negotiations with EPA to resolve these issues, but it is too early
in the process to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and, based
upon initial discussions, and although penalties could potentially exceed $100
thousand, management does not believe that this issue will have a material
adverse impact on our financial position.  

On September 29,
2004, Kruse Technology Partnership (Kruse) filed a lawsuit against Caterpillar
in the United States District Court for the Central District of California
alleging that certain Caterpillar engines built from October 2002 to the present
infringe upon certain claims of three of Kruse's patents on engine fuel
injection timing and combustion strategies.  Kruse seeks monetary
damages, injunctive relief and a finding that the alleged infringement by
Caterpillar was willful.  Caterpillar denies Kruse's allegations,
believes they are without merit and filed a counterclaim seeking a declaration
from the court that Caterpillar is not infringing upon Kruse's patents and that
the patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The counterclaim filed by
Caterpillar is pending, and no trial date is currently scheduled.  In
the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of this matter will not have
a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or
results of operations. 

Item
      4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
      Holders.  

Not
applicable. 

PART 
  II   

Item
      5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder
      Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
      Securities.  

Information required by Item 5 is
incorporated by reference from the  Management s Discussion and Analysis  and
 Supplemental Stockholder Information  of Exhibit 13.  

Non-U.S.
Employee Stock Purchase Plans  

         We have 30 employee stock purchase plans
administered outside the United States for our foreign employees.  As
of December 31, 2007, those plans had approximately 11,600 participants in the
aggregate.  During the fourth quarter of 2007, approximately 117,000
shares of Caterpillar common stock or foreign denominated equivalents were
distributed under the plans.  Participants in some foreign plans have
the option of receiving non-U.S. share certificates (foreign-denominated
equivalents) in lieu of U.S. shares of Caterpillar common stock upon withdrawal
from the plan.  These equivalent certificates are tradable only on the
local stock market and are included in our determination of shares
outstanding.  

Page 17 

Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities  

(1)  
               
                  In February
      2007, the Board of Directors authorized a $7.50 billion stock repurchase
      program over the next five years, expiring on December 31, 2011. Through
      December 31, 2007, all share repurchases were open market
      purchases.  In August 2007, the Board of Directors authorized
      the use of derivative contracts for stock repurchases in addition to open
      market purchases. 

Other
Purchases of Equity Securities  

Period  

Total
      number 

                  of
      Shares 

                    Purchased (1)    

Average
      Price 

                  Paid
      per Share 

Total
      Number 

                  of
      Shares Purchased Under the Program 

Approximate
      Dollar Value of Shares that may yet be Purchased under the
      Program 

(  1)   

Represents shares delivered
      back to issuer for the payment  of  taxes resulting from
      the exercise of stock options by employees and
      Directors  

Item
      6.  Selected Financial
  Data.  

Information required by Item 6 is
incorporated by reference from the "Five-year Financial Summary" and
"Management s Discussion and Analysis  of Exhibit 13.  

Item
      7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
      and Results of
Operations.  

Information
required by Item 7 is incorporated by reference from the  Management s
Discussion and Analysis  of Exhibit 13. 

This Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in
conjunction with our discussion of cautionary statements and significant risks
to the company s business under Item 1A. (Risk Factors and Cautionary Factors
That May Affect Future Results) of this Form 10-K.  

Page 18 

Item
      7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
      Risk.  

Information required by Item 7A appears
in Note 1    Operations and summary of significant accounting policies,  Note 3
  Derivative financial instruments and risk management,  Note 19    Fair values
of financial instruments  and Note 20    Concentration of credit risk  of
Exhibit 13.  Other information required by Item 7A is incorporated by
reference from the   Management s Discussion and Analysis  of Exhibit
13.  

Item
      8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary
      Data.  

Information required by Item 8 is
incorporated by reference from the   Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm  and from the   Financial Statements and Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements  of Exhibit 13.  Other
information required by Item 8 is included in "Computation of Ratios of Earnings
to Fixed Charges" filed as Exhibit 12 to this Form 10-K.  

Item
      9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
      Financial Disclosure.  

Not Applicable.  

Item
      9A. Controls and
Procedures  

Disclosure
Controls and Procedures  

Under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and our
chief financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls
and procedures; as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule
13a-15(e).  Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and
our chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual
report.  

Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

         The management of Caterpillar is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Our
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. Management assessed the effectiveness of the
company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In
making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in   Internal Control  
Integrated Framework  . Based
on our assessment we concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, the company's
internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those
criteria.  

The effectiveness
of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2007, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm. The report appears under the  Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm  of Exhibit 13. 

Page 19 

Changes in Internal Control
over Financial Reporting  

         During the last fiscal quarter, there
has been no significant change in the company's internal control over financial
reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the company's internal control over financial
reporting.  

Item
      9B. Other
Information.   

Not Applicable.  

PART 
    III   

Item
      10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance.  

Identification
of Directors and Business Experience  

         Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Identification
of Executive Officers and Business Experience  

         Information required by this Item
appears in Item 1C of this Form 10-K.  

Family
Relationships  

         There are no family relationships
between the officers and directors of the company.  All officers serve
at the pleasure of the board of directors and are elected annually at a meeting
of the board.  

Legal
Proceedings Involving Officers and Directors  

         Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Audit
Committee Financial Expert  

         Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Identification
of Audit Committee  

         Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Stockholder
Recommendation of Board Nominees  

         Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act  

         Information required by this Item
relating to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
is incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Code of
Ethics  

         Our Worldwide Code of Conduct (Code),
first published in 1974 and most recently amended in 2005, sets a high standard
for honesty and ethical behavior by every employee, including the principal
executive officer, principal financial officer, controller and principal
accounting officer.  The Code is posted on our website at   www.CAT.com/governance   and is incorporated by reference as
Exhibit 14 to this Form 10-K.  To obtain a copy of the Code at no
charge, submit a written request to the Corporate Secretary at 100 NE Adams
Street, Peoria, Illinois 61629-7310.   We will post on our
website any required amendments to or waivers granted under our Code pursuant to
SEC or New York Stock Exchange disclosure rules. 

Page 20 

Item
      11. Executive
Compensation.  

Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Item
      12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
      Related Stockholder
Matters.  

Information required by this Item
relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Information
required by this item relating to securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans is included in the following table: 

1   
               
                  Excludes any
      cash payments in-lieu-of stock. 

Item
      13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
      Independence.  

Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.  

Item
      14. Principal Accountant Fees and
  Services.  

Information required by this Item is
incorporated by reference from the 2008 Proxy Statement.   

Page 21 

PART 
  IV   

Item
      15. Exhibits and Financial Statement
      Schedules.  

(a)       The following documents are incorporated
by reference from Exhibit 13:  

           1.  Financial
Statements:  

Report of Independent Registered
      Public Accounting Firm  

Statement 1
      -  Consolidated Results of
  Operations  

Statement 2
      -  Consolidated Financial
  Position  

Statement 3 -  Changes
      in Consolidated Stockholders'
Equity  

Statement 4
      -  Consolidated Statement of Cash
  Flow  

Notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements  

2.  Financial Statement
Schedules:  

All
      schedules are omitted because the required information is shown in the
      financial statements or the notes thereto incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 13 or considered to be immaterial.  

Page 22 

10.5 

Caterpillar
      Inc. Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, effective as of January 1,
      2002  (incorporated
      by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to  the 2002 Form
    10-K). 

10.6 

Directors'
      Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated through January 1,
      2005 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.6 to the 2006 Form
      10-K). 

10.7 

Directors'
      Charitable Award Program (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10(h) to
      the 1993 Form 10-K). 

10.8 

Deferred
      Employees' Investment Plan, as amended and restated through February 16,
      2005 (incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.8 to the 2005 Form
      10-K). 

10.9 

Five year
      Credit Agreement dated September 21, 2006 among Caterpillar Inc.,
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International
      Finance p.l.c and Caterpillar Finance Corporation, certain financial
      institutions named therein, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
      UFJ, Ltd., Citibank International p.l.c., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Bank of
      America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Soci t 
      G n rale and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed September 26, 2006). 

10.10 

Japan Local
      Currency Addendum to the Five year Credit Agreement dated September 21,
      2006 among Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation, the Japan Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A.,
      and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K filed September 26,
2006). 

10.11 

Local Currency
      Addendum to the Five year Credit Agreement dated September 21, 2006 among
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar International
      Finance p.l.c., the Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank,
      N.A.,  and Citibank International plc (incorporated by reference
      from Exhibit 99.3 to For 8-K filed September 26, 2006). 

10.12 

Five year
      Credit Agreement dated September 20, 2007 among Caterpillar Inc.,
      Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation, certain financial institutions named therein, Citibank, N.A.,
      The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Bank of
      America, N.A., Barclays Bank PLC, J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc., Soci t 
      G n rale and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed September 25, 2007). 

10.13 

Japan Local
      Currency Addendum to the Five year Credit Agreement dated September 20,
      2007 among Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation, Caterpillar Finance
      Corporation, the Japan Local Currency Banks named therein, Citibank, N.A.
      and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (incorporated by reference from
      Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K filed September 25,
2007). 

11 

Computations
      of Earnings per Share. 

12 

Computation of
      Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 

13 

General and
      Financial Information for 2007 containing the information required by SEC
      Rule 14a-3 for an annual report to security holders. 

14 

Caterpillar
      Worldwide Code of Conduct (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 14 to
      the 2005 Form 10-K). 

21 

Subsidiaries
      and Affiliates of the Registrant. 

23 

Consent of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 

31.1 

Certification
      of James W. Owens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar
      Inc., as required pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
      of 2002. 

31.2 

Certification
      of David B. Burritt, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
      Caterpillar Inc., as required pursuant to Section 302 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

32 

Certification
      of James W. Owens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Caterpillar
      Inc. and David B. Burritt, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
      Caterpillar Inc., as required pursuant to Section 906 of the
      Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

99.1 

Annual CEO
      certification to the New York Stock Exchange for fiscal year
      2007. 

Page 23 

Form 10-K  

                   SIGNATURES  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
      of 1934, the company has duly caused this report to be signed on its
      behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

CATERPILLAR
      INC. 

                  (Registrant) 

February 22,
      2008 

By: 

/s/James
      B. Buda 

James B.
      Buda,  Secretary  

Pursuant
      to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
      has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant
      and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 

February 22,
      2008  

/s/James W.
      Owens  

Chairman of the Board,
      Director  

                   and Chief Executive
      Officer  

(James W.
      Owens)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/Richard P.
      Lavin  

Group
    President  

(Richard P.
      Lavin)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/Stuart L.
      Levenick  

Group
    President  

(Stuart L.
      Levenick)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/Douglas R.
      Oberhelman  

Group
    President  

(Douglas R.
      Oberhelman)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/Edward J.
      Rapp  

Group
    President  

(Edward J.
      Rapp)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/Gerard R.
      Vittecoq  

Group
    President  

(Gerard R.
      Vittecoq)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/Steven H.
      Wunning  

Group
    President  

(Steven H.
      Wunning)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/David B.
      Burritt  

Chief Financial
      Officer  

                    and Vice
      President  

(David B.
      Burritt)  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/Bradley M.
      Halverson  

Controller  

(Bradley M.
      Halverson)  

February 22,
      2008     

/s/Jananne A.
      Copeland  

Chief Accounting
      Officer   

(Jananne A.
      Copeland)  

Page 24 

Page 25 

<EX-10.1>
 2
 ex_10-1.htm
 1996 STOCK OPTION & LONG-TERM INCENTIVE

ex_10-1.htm 

Exhibit
10.1 

Caterpillar
Inc. 

1996
Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan 

(Amended and
Restated through Third Amendment) 

Section
1.  Purpose 

The Caterpillar
Inc. 1996 Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan ( Plan ) is designed to
attract and retain outstanding individuals as non-employee directors, officers
and key employees of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the
 Company ), and to furnish incentives to such individuals through awards based
upon the performance of the Company and its stock.  To this end, the
Plan provides for grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights
( SARs ) ,  restricted
stock, restricted stock units, and performance awards, or combinations thereof,
to non-employee directors, officers and other key employees of the Company, on
the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Plan. 

Section
2.  Shares Subject to the Plan 

2.1   Shares Reserved for
Issuance  

Sixty-Four Million
shares of Company common stock ( Shares ) shall be available for issuance under
the Plan either from authorized but unissued Shares or from Shares acquired by
the Company, including Shares purchased in the open market.  An
additional four million Shares authorized but unissued under prior Company stock
option plans shall be available for issuance under this Plan. 

2.2   Reacquired
Shares  

If Shares subject
to an award under the Plan are not acquired by participants, or Shares issued
under the Plan are reacquired by the Company, because of lapse, expiration, or
termination of an award, such Shares shall again become available for issuance
under the Plan.  Shares tendered upon exercise of an option by a Plan
participant may be added back and made available solely for future awards under
the Plan. 

2.3   Adjustments in Authorized
Shares  

In the event of any
corporate event or transaction (including, but not limited to, a change in the
shares of the Company or the capitalization of the Company) such as a merger,
consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization, separation, stock dividend,
stock split, reverse stock split, split up, spin-off, or other distribution of
stock or property of the Company, combination of Shares, exchange of Shares,
dividend in kind, or other like change in capital structure or distribution
(other than normal cash dividends) to stockholders of the Company, or any
similar corporate event or transaction, the Committee, in its sole discretion,
in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants  rights under the
Plan, shall substitute or adjust, as applicable, the number and kind of Shares
that may be issued under the Plan or under particular forms of awards, the
number and kind of Shares subject to outstanding awards, the option exercise
price or base price applicable to outstanding awards, the annual award limits,
the limits on awards set forth in Sections 5.1(a), 6.1(b) and 8.2, and other
value determinations applicable to outstanding awards. 

Page 1 

The Committee, in
its sole discretion, may also make appropriate adjustments in the terms of any
awards under the Plan related to such changes or distributions and to modify any
other terms of outstanding awards, including modifications of performance goals
and changes in the length of Performance Periods.  The determination
of the Committee as to the foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive
and binding on Participants under the Plan. 

Section
3.  Administration 

Unless otherwise
provided in the Plan, the Committee shall have the authority to grant awards
under the Plan to non-employee directors, officers, and other key employees of
the Company. Except as limited by the express provisions of the Plan or by
resolutions adopted by the Board, the Committee also shall have the authority
and discretion to interpret the Plan, to establish and revise rules and
regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it
believes necessary or advisable for administration of the Plan, except to the
extent that such authority or discretion would cause an award to fail to qualify
as performance based compensation for purposes of Section 162(m) of the
Code. 

The Committee shall
be composed solely of members of the Board that satisfy applicable tax,
securities and stock exchange rules, and other requirements determined to be
necessary or advisable by the Board.  The Committee may delegate to
one or more of its members or to one or more officers of the Company, and/or its
Subsidiaries and Affiliates or to one or more agents or advisors such
administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Committee or
any person to whom it has delegated duties or powers as aforesaid may employ one
or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the
Committee or such person may have under the Plan. 

Section
4.  Eligibility and Participation 

4.1   Eligibility  

Individuals
eligible to participate in this Plan include non-employee directors, officers,
and other key employees. 

4.2   Actual
Participation  

Subject to the
provisions of the Plan, the Committee may, from time to time, select from all
eligible officers and key Employees those to whom awards shall be
granted.  The Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, the
nature of any and all terms (as permissible by law) and the amount of each
award. Directors who are not employees shall only receive awards in accordance
with the terms set forth in this Plan. 

Section
5.  Stock Options 

5.1   Company
Employees  

(a)
Eligibility 

The Committee shall
determine Company officers and key employees to whom options shall be granted,
the timing of such grants, and the number of shares subject to the option;
provided that the maximum number of Shares upon which options may be granted to
any employee in any calendar year shall be 400,000.  All Options
granted under the Plan will be evidenced by an Award Agreement. 

Page 2 

(b) Option Exercise
Price 

The exercise price
of each option shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of Shares
underlying the option at the time the option is granted.  The fair
market value for purposes of determining the exercise price shall be the mean
between the high and the low prices at which Shares are traded on the New York
Stock Exchange on the day the option is granted.  In the event this
method for determining fair market value is not practicable, fair market value
shall be determined by such other reasonable method as the Committee shall
select. 

(c) Option
Exercise 

Options shall be
exercisable in such installments and during such periods as may be fixed by the
Committee at the time of grant.  Each Option granted to a Participant
shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the time of grant;
provided, however, no Option shall be exercisable later than the tenth (10 th )
anniversary date of its grant. 

Payment of the
exercise price shall be made upon exercise of all or a portion of any
option.  Such payment shall be in cash or by tendering Shares that
have been owned by the participant for at least six months having a fair market
value equal to 100% of the exercise price.  The fair market value of
Shares for this purpose shall be the mean between the high and low prices at
which Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of
exercise.  Upon exercise of an option, any applicable taxes the
Company is required to withhold shall be paid to the Company.  Shares
to be received upon exercise may be surrendered to satisfy withholding
obligations. 

(d) 
Termination of Employment 

The Committee may
require a period of continued employment before an option can be
exercised.  That period shall not be less than one year, except that
the Committee may permit a shorter period in the event of termination of
employment by retirement or death. 

Termination of
employment with the Company shall terminate remaining rights under options then
held; provided, however, that an option grant may provide that if employment
terminates after completion of a specific period, the option may be exercised
during a period of time after termination.  That period may not exceed
sixty months where termination of employment is caused by retirement or death or
sixty days where termination results from any other cause provided that such
period shall not extend beyond the original maximum term of the
option.  If death occurs after termination of employment but during
the period of time specified, such period may be extended to not more than
sixty-six months after retirement, or thirty-eight months after termination of
employment for any other cause provided that such period shall not extend beyond
the original maximum term of the option.  In the event of termination
within two years after a Change of Control as defined in Section 10.2 of the
Plan, options shall be exercisable for a period of sixty months following the
date of termination or for the maximum term of the option, whichever is
shorter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may change the
post-termination period of exercisability of an option provided that change does
not extend the original maximum term of the option. 

Page 3 

(e) 
Transferability of Options 

(i)  Except as
otherwise permitted in Section 4.1(e)(ii), options shall not be transferable
other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a
qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act.  Options are exercisable during the
holder s lifetime only by the holder, unless the holder becomes incapacitated or
disabled, in which case the option may be exercised by the holder s authorized
representative.  A holder may file with the Company a written
designation of beneficiaries with the authority to exercise options in the event
of the holder s death. 

(ii) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1(e)(i), and in addition to the
permissible transfers under that provision, options granted to persons at the
level of Vice President and above, as well as directors of the Company and
persons retired from those positions, may be transferred to any one or more
 Permitted Transferees,  as long as those options are not incentive stock
options as defined below and are fully vested.  Options granted to
employees below the level of Vice President may be transferred upon prior
approval of the Company s Director of Compensation and Benefits pursuant to the
terms of this section. 

(iii)  For
purposes of Section 4.1(e)(ii), the term "Permitted Transferees" shall mean the
members of the group that consists exclusively of the individual to whom the
option is granted, the spouse of the individual to whom the option is granted,
the lineal descendants of the individual to whom the option is granted, the
spouses of the lineal descendents to whom the option is granted, the lineal
descendants of any spouse or former spouse of the individual to whom the option
is granted, the spouses of the lineal descendants of any spouse or former spouse
of the individual to whom the option is granted, the estate (and any trust that
serves a distributive function of an estate) of the Permitted Transferee, all
trusts that an individual who is a Permitted Transferee can revoke and all
trusts, corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies and other
entities in which, directly or indirectly, but for the exercise of a power of
appointment or the death of the survivor of the individual who are Permitted
Transferees.  Each owner of an equitable interest is an individual who
is a Permitted Transferee. 

(f)  Incentive
Stock Options 

Incentive stock
options ( ISOs ), as defined in Section 422 of the Code, may be granted to key
employees under the Plan. The decision to grant ISOs to particular persons is
within the Committee s discretion. An Option Award Agreement shall specify
whether the Option is intended to be an ISO or a Non-Qualified Stock Option
( NQSO ).  A NQSO is an option that does not meet the definition of an
ISO.  ISOs shall not be exercisable after expiration of ten years from
the date of grant. The amount of ISOs vesting in a particular calendar year for
an option recipient under this Plan and all incentive stock option plans of the
Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation cannot exceed $100,000, based on
the fair market value of the Shares subject to the options on the date of grant;
provided that any portion of an option that cannot be exercised as an ISO
because of this limitation may be converted by the Committee to another form of
option.  If any employee or former
employee shall make any disposition of Shares issued pursuant to the exercise of
an ISO under the circumstances described in Section 421(b) of the Code (relating
to certain disqualifying dispositions), such employee or former employee shall
notify the Company of such disposition within ten (10) days
thereof.   The Board may amend the Plan to comply with Section
422 of the Code or other applicable laws and to permit options previously
granted to be converted to ISOs. 

Page 4 

5.2   Non-Employee
Directors  

(a) 
Terms 

Subject to the
share ownership requirements, options with a term of ten years are granted to
each non-employee director for 4,000 Shares, effective as of the close of each
annual meeting of stockholders at which an individual is elected a director or
following which such individual continues as a director.  Options
granted to non-employee directors shall become exercisable by one-third at the
end of each of the three successive one-year periods since the date of
grant.  The exercise price of each option shall be 100% of the fair
market value of Shares underlying the option on the date of grant. 

(b) 
Termination of Directorship 

An option awarded
to a non-employee director may be exercised any time within sixty months of
the date the director terminates such status.  In the event of a
director s death, the director s authorized representative may exercise the
option within sixty months of the date of death, provided that if the director
dies after cessation of director status, the option is exercisable within
sixty-six months of such cessation.  In no event shall an option
awarded to a non-employee director be exercisable beyond the expiration date of
that option. 

Section
6.  Stock Appreciation Rights 

6.1   Company
Employees  

(a)  Types of
SARs 

The Committee may
grant  tandem  and  non-tandem  SARs under the Plan.  A tandem SAR
shall be granted at the same time as an option and may be exercised by the
recipient as an alternative to the option.  The term of a tandem SAR,
its exercisability and any conditions or restrictions applicable to it shall be
the same as its related option, and its base price shall be equal to the
exercise price of the related option.  In addition, upon the exercise
of the option, the tandem SAR (or the portion related to the exercise) shall
expire and upon exercise of the tandem SAR, the related option (or such portion)
shall expire.  The terms of a non-tandem SAR shall be established by
the Committee.  A SAR that is not otherwise designated but is granted
at the same time as an option shall be a tandem SAR. 

(b) 
Eligibility 

The Committee shall
determine Company officers and employees to whom SARs shall be granted, the
timing of such grants, and the number of shares subject to the SAR; provided
that the maximum number of Shares upon which non-tandem SARs may be granted to
any employee in any calendar year shall be 400,000. 

Page 5 

(c)  SAR Base
Price 

The base price of
each non-tandem SAR shall not be less than one hundred percent of the fair
market value of Shares underlying the SAR at the time the SAR is
granted.  The fair market value for purposes of determining the base
price shall be the mean between the high and the low prices at which Shares are
traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the day the SAR is
granted.  In the event this method for determining fair market value
is not practicable, fair market value shall be determined by such other
reasonable method as the Committee shall select. 

(d)  SAR
Exercise 

Non-tandem SARs
shall be exercisable in such installments and during such periods as may be
fixed by the Committee at the time of grant.  Non-tandem SARs shall
not be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the date of
grant. 

Upon exercise of an
SAR, the recipient shall be entitled to receive from the Company that number of
Shares having an aggregate fair market value as of the date of exercise equal to
the product of (i) the number of Shares as to which the recipient is exercising
the SAR, and (ii) the excess of the fair market value (at the date of exercise)
of a Share over the base price of the SAR, provided that the Committee may elect
to settle all or a portion of the Company's obligation arising out of the
exercise of an SAR by the payment of cash in an amount equal to the fair market
value as of the date of exercise of the Shares it would otherwise be obligated
to deliver.  The fair market value of Shares for this purpose shall be
the mean between the high and low prices at which Shares are traded on the New
York Stock Exchange on the date of exercise.  Upon exercise of an SAR,
any applicable taxes the Company is required to withhold shall be paid to the
Company.  Shares to be received upon exercise may be surrendered to
satisfy withholding obligations. 

(d) 
Termination of Employment 

The Committee may
require a period of continued employment before a non-tandem SAR can be
exercised.  That period shall not be less than one year, except that
the Committee may permit a shorter period in the event of termination of
employment by retirement or death. 

Termination of
employment with the Company shall terminate remaining rights under non-tandem
SARs then held; provided, however, that a non-tandem SAR grant may provide that
if employment terminates after completion of a specific period, the SAR may be
exercised during a period of time after termination.  That period may
not exceed sixty months where termination of employment is caused by retirement
or death or sixty days where termination results from any other cause provided
that such period shall not extend beyond the original maximum term of the
SAR.  If death occurs after termination of employment but during the
period of time specified, such period may be extended to not more than sixty-six
months after retirement, or thirty-eight months after termination of employment
for any other cause provided that such period shall not extend beyond the
original maximum term of the SAR.  In the event of termination within
two years after a Change of Control as defined in Section 10.2 of the Plan,
non-tandem SARs shall be exercisable for a period of sixty months following the
date of termination or for the maximum term of the SAR, whichever is
shorter.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may change the
post-termination period of exercisability of a non-tandem SAR provided that
change does not extend the original maximum term of the SAR. 

Page 6 

(f) 
Transferability of SARs 

(i)  Except as
otherwise permitted in Section 6(f)(ii), non-tandem SARs shall not be
transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined by the Code or the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act.  Non-tandem SARs are
exercisable during the holder s lifetime only by the holder, unless the holder
becomes incapacitated or disabled, in which case the SAR may be exercised by the
holder s authorized representative.  A holder may file with the
Company a written designation of beneficiaries with the authority to exercise
non-tandem SARs in the event of the holder s death. 

(ii) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6(f)(i), and in addition to the
permissible transfers under that provision, non-tandem SARs granted to persons
at the level of Vice President and above, as well as directors of this
corporation and persons retired from those positions, may be transferred to any
one or more  Permitted Transferees,  as long as those SARs are fully
vested.  Non-tandem SARs granted to employees below the level of Vice
President may be transferred upon prior approval of the Company s Director of
Compensation and Benefits pursuant to the terms of this section. 

(iii)  For
purposes of Section 6(f)(ii), the term "Permitted Transferees" shall mean the
members of the group that consists exclusively of the individual to whom the
non-tandem SAR is granted, the spouse of the individual to whom the non-tandem
SAR is granted, the lineal descendants of the individual to whom the non-tandem
SAR is granted, the spouses of the lineal descendents to whom the non-tandem SAR
is granted, the lineal descendants of any spouse or former spouse of the
individual to whom the non-tandem SAR is granted, the spouses of the lineal
descendants of any spouse or former spouse of the individual to whom the
non-tandem SAR is granted, the estate (and any trust that serves a distributive
function of an estate) of the Permitted Transferee, all trusts that an
individual who is a Permitted Transferee can revoke and all trusts,
corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies and other entities in
which, directly or indirectly, but for the exercise of a power of appointment or
the death of the survivor of the individual who are Permitted
Transferees.  Each owner of an equitable interest is an individual who
is a Permitted Transferee. 

6.2   Non-Employee
Directors  

(a) 
Terms 

The Committee may
grant SARs to non-employee directors.  With respect to the grant of
SARs to non-employee directors and subject to any share ownership requirements,
each year the Committee shall determine (i) the type of such  SAR
grant (i.e., tandem or non-tandem), (ii)  the timing of such SAR grant
and (iii) the number of shares subject to the SAR.  All SARs granted
under this provision of the Plan will be evidenced by an Award
Agreement. 

SARs granted to
non-employee directors shall have a term of ten years and become exercisable by
one-third at the end of each of the three successive one-year periods since the
date of grant. The base price of each SAR shall be 100% of the fair market value
of Shares underlying the SAR on the date the SAR is granted. 

Page 7 

(b) 
Termination of Directorship 

A SAR granted to a
non-employee director may be exercised any time within sixty months of the
date the director terminates such status.  In the event of a
director s death, the director s authorized representative may exercise the SAR
within sixty months of the date of death, provided that if the director dies
after cessation of director status, the authorized representative may exercise
the SAR within sixty-six months of such cessation.  In no event shall
a SAR granted to a non-employee director be exercisable beyond the original
expiration date of that SAR. 

Section
7.  Restricted Stock 

7.1   Company
Employees  

(a) 
Eligibility 

The Committee may
determine whether restricted stock or restricted stock units shall be awarded to
Company officers and employees, the timing of award, and the conditions and
restrictions imposed on the award.  Restricted stock units are similar
to restricted stock except that no Shares are actually awarded to the employee
on the date of grant.  Shares are awarded only on the date of
exercise. 

(b) 
Terms 

With respect to
restricted stock grants, during the restriction period the recipient shall have
a beneficial interest in the restricted stock and all associated rights and
privileges of a stockholder, including the right to vote and receive dividends,
subject to any restrictions imposed by the Committee at the time of
grant.  The recipient shall have no voting or dividend rights with
respect to any restricted stock units granted hereunder.  The
Committee may grant dividend equivalents on restricted stock units with such
terms and conditions as the Committee shall specify. 

The following
restrictions will be imposed on Shares of restricted stock (and restricted stock
units where specified) until expiration of the restriction period: 

(i)  The
recipient shall not be entitled to delivery of the certificates for the
Shares; 

(ii)  None of
the restricted stock units or   Shares issued as
restricted stock may be transferred other than by will or by the laws of descent
and distribution; and 

(iii) 
Restricted stock units or Shares issued as restricted stock shall be forfeited
if the recipient terminates employment with the Company, except for termination
due to retirement after a specified age, disability, death or other special
circumstances approved by the Committee. 

Page 8 

Shares awarded as
restricted stock will be issued subject to a restriction period set by the
Committee of no less than two nor more than ten years.  The Committee,
except for restrictions specified in the preceding paragraphs, shall have the
discretion to remove any or all of the restrictions on a restricted stock award
whenever it determines such action appropriate.  Except with respect
to a maximum of five percent of the Shares authorized in Section 2, any awards
of restricted stock or restricted stock units which vest on the basis of the
recipient s continued employment with or provision of service to the Company
shall not provide for vesting which is any more rapid than annual pro rata
vesting over a three year period and any awards of restricted stock or
restricted stock units which vest upon the attainment of performance goals shall
provide for a performance period of at least twelve months.  Upon
expiration of the restriction period, the Shares will be made available to the
recipient, subject to satisfaction of applicable tax withholding
requirements. 

7.2            Non-Employee
Directors  

(a)  On
January 1 of each year, 400 Shares of restricted stock shall be granted to each
director who is not currently an employee of the Company.  The stock
will be subject to a restriction period of three years from the date of
grant.  During the restriction period, the recipient shall have a
beneficial interest in the restricted stock and all associated rights and
privileges of a stockholder, including the right to vote and receive
dividends. 

The following
restrictions will be imposed on restricted stock until expiration of the
restricted period: 

(i)  The
recipient shall not be entitled to delivery of the Shares; 

(ii)  None of
the Shares issued as restricted stock may be transferred other than by will or
by the laws of descent and distribution; and 

(iii)  Shares
issued as restricted stock shall be forfeited if the recipient ceases to serve
as a director of the Company, except for termination due to death, disability,
or retirement under the Company s Directors  Retirement Plan. 

Upon expiration of
the restriction period, the Shares will be made available to the recipient,
subject to satisfaction of applicable tax withholding requirements. 

(b)  Each
January 1st, 350 shares of restricted stock, in addition to shares described in
Section 7.2(a), shall be awarded to each director who is not currently and has
not been an employee of the Company. Shares awarded under this Section 7.2(b)
will be held in escrow until the director terminates service with the Company.
During the restriction period, the recipient shall have a beneficial interest in
the restricted stock and all associated rights and privileges of a stockholder
except as discussed below. 

The following
restrictions will be imposed on restricted stock awarded under this Section
7.2(b) until it is made available to the recipient: 

Page 9 

(i)  The
recipient shall not receive dividends on the shares, but an amount equal to such
dividends will be credited to the director s stock equivalent account in the
Company s Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan; 

(ii)  The
recipient shall not be entitled to delivery of the shares; 

(iii)  None of
the shares awarded may be transferred other than by will or by the laws of
descent and distribution; and 

(iv)  The
right to receive shares shall be subordinate to the claims of general creditors
of the Company. 

Upon termination of
service, restricted shares will be made available to the recipient subject to
satisfaction of applicable tax withholding requirements; provided, however, that
if the recipient has not served on the Board for at least five years at the time
of such termination, all restricted shares awarded under this Section 7.2(b)
shall be forfeited. 

Pursuant to
termination of the Company s Directors  Retirement Plan effective December 31,
1996, each director continuing in office was awarded an amount of restricted
stock equal to the accumulated value of past pension accruals as determined by
the Company s actuary.  Those shares will be subject to the same
restrictions as shares awarded annually pursuant to this Section
7.2(b). 

(c)  Effective
January 1, 2002, shares of restricted stock shall no longer be granted under
Section 7.2(a) of the Plan or awarded under Section 7.2(b) of the
Plan.  Shares of restricted stock that were granted or awarded prior
to January 1, 2002, shall be subject to the same restrictions and provisions as
determined in 7.2(a) and 7.2(b). 

(d)  With
respect to the award of restricted stock units, the Committee in its sole
discretion may determine (i) whether restricted stock units shall be awarded to
non-employee directors, (ii) the timing of award, and (iii) the conditions and
restrictions imposed on the award. 

Section
8  Performance Awards 

8.1   Eligibility and
Terms  

The Committee may
grant awards to officers and other key employees ( Performance Awards ) based
upon Company performance over a period of years ( Performance
Period ).  The Committee shall have sole discretion to determine
persons eligible to participate, the Performance Period, Company performance
factors applicable to the award ( Performance Measures ), and the method of
Performance Award calculation. 

Page 10 

At the time the
Committee establishes a Performance Period for a particular award, it shall also
establish Performance Measures and targets to be attained relative to those
measures ( Performance Targets ).  Performance Measures may be based
on any of the following factors, alone or in combination, as the Committee deems
appropriate: (i) return on assets; (ii) return on equity; (iii) return on sales;
(iv) total stockholder return; (v) cash flow; (vi) economic value added; (vii)
net earnings; and (viii) earnings per share relative to a peer
group.  The Committee may establish the peer group referenced above
and amend the peer group as the Committee determines
desirable.  Performance Targets may include a minimum, maximum and
target level of performance with the size of Performance Awards based on the
level attained.  Once established, Performance Targets and Performance
Measures shall not be changed during the Performance Period; provided, however,
that the Committee may eliminate or decrease the amount of a Performance Award
otherwise payable to a participant.  Upon completion of a Performance
Period, the Committee shall determine the Company s performance in relation to
the Performance Targets for that period and certify in writing the extent to
which Performance Targets were satisfied. 

8.2   Payment of
Awards  

Performance Awards
may be paid in cash, stock, restricted stock (pursuant to terms applicable to
restricted stock awarded to Company employees as described in the Plan), or a
combination thereof as determined by the Committee. Performance Awards shall be
made not later than ninety days following the end of the relevant Performance
Period. The fair market value of a Performance Award payment to any individual
employee in any calendar year shall not exceed Two Million Five Hundred Thousand
and NO/100 Dollars ($2,500,000.00).  The fair market value of Shares
to be awarded shall be determined by the average of the high and low price of
Shares on the New York Stock Exchange on the last business day of the
Performance Period. Federal, state and local taxes will be withheld as
appropriate. 

8.3   Termination  

To receive a
Performance Award, the participant must be employed by the Company on the last
day of the Performance Period.  If a participant terminates employment
during the Performance Period by reason of death, disability or retirement, a
payout based on the time of employment during the Performance Period shall be
distributed.  Participants employed on the last day of the Performance
Period, but not for the entire Performance Period, shall receive a payout
prorated for that part of the Performance Period for which they were
participants.  If the participant is deceased at the time of
Performance Award payment, the payment shall be made to the recipient s
designated representative. 

Section
9.  Election to Receive Non-Employee Director Fees in
Shares 

Effective April 8,
1998, non-employee directors shall have the option of receiving all or a portion
of their annual retainer fees, as well as fees for attendance at meetings of the
Board and committees of the Board (including any Committee Chairman stipend), in
the form of Shares. 

The number of
Shares that may be issued pursuant to such election shall be based on the amount
of cash compensation subject to the election divided by the fair market value of
one Share on the date such cash compensation is payable.  The fair
market value shall be the mean between the high and low prices at which Shares
are traded on the New York Stock Exchange on payable date. 

Page 11 

Shares provided
pursuant to the election shall be held in book-entry form by the Company on
behalf of the non-employee director.  Upon request, the Company shall
deliver Shares so held to the non-employee director.  While held in
book-entry form, the Shares shall have all associated rights and privileges,
including voting rights and the right to receive dividends. 

Section
10.  Change of Control 

10.1   Effect on Grants and
Awards  

Unless the
Committee shall otherwise expressly provide in the agreement relating to a grant
or award under the Plan, upon the occurrence of a Change of Control as defined
below: (i) all options and SARs then outstanding under the Plan shall become
fully exercisable as of the date of the Change of Control; (ii) all terms and
conditions of restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards, and other
stock-based awards for which no performance goals have been established then
outstanding shall be deemed satisfied as of the date of the Change of Control;
and (iii) all Performance Awards or other stock-based awards for which
performance goal(s) have been established for a Performance Period not completed
at the time of the Change of Control shall be payable in an amount equal to the
product of the maximum award opportunity for the Performance Award or other
stock-based award, and a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
months that have elapsed since the beginning of the Performance Period through
the later of (A) the date of the Change of Control or (B) the date the
participant terminates employment, and the denominator of which is the total
number of months in the Performance Period; provided, however, that if this Plan
shall remain in force after a Change of Control, a Performance Period is
completed during that time, and the participant s employment has not terminated,
this provision (iii) shall not apply. 

10.2   Change of Control
Defined  

For purposes of the
Plan, a  Change of Control  shall be deemed to have occurred if: 

(a)  Any
person becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
fifteen percent or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then
outstanding common stock, unless the Board by resolution negates the effect of
this provision in a particular circumstance, deeming that resolution to be in
the best interests of Company stockholders; 

(b)  During
any period of two consecutive years, there shall cease to be a majority of the
Board comprised of individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted
the Board; 

(c)  The
stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation which would result
in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity) less than fifty percent of the
combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving
entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation;
or 

(d)  Company
stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an
agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all
of its assets. 

Page 12 

Section
11.  Amendment and Termination 

11.1   Amendment, Modification, Suspension,
and Termination  

Subject to Section
11.3, the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, alter, amend,
modify, suspend, or terminate the Plan and any Award Agreement in whole or
in part; provided, however, that, no amendment of the Plan shall be made without
stockholder approval if stockholder approval is required by law, regulation, or
stock exchange rule. 

11.2   Adjustment of Awards Upon the
Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events  

The Committee may
make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in,
awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without
limitation, the events described in Section 2.3 hereof) affecting the Company or
the financial statements of the Company or of changes in applicable laws,
regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Committee determines that
such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent unintended dilution or
enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available
under the Plan.  The determination of the Committee as to the
foregoing adjustments, if any, shall be conclusive and binding on Participants
under the Plan. 

11.3   Awards Previously
Granted  

Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan to the contrary, no termination, amendment,
suspension, or modification of the Plan or an Award Agreement shall adversely
affect in any material way any award previously granted under the Plan,
without the written consent of the Participant holding such award. 

Section
12.  Regulatory Compliance 

Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan, the issuance or delivery of any Shares may be
postponed for such period as may be required to comply with any applicable
requirements of any national securities exchange or any requirements under any
other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or delivery of such
Shares.  The Company shall not be obligated to issue or deliver any
Shares if such issuance or delivery shall constitute a violation of any
provision of any law or regulation of any governmental authority or national
securities exchange. 

Section
13.  Dividend Equivalents 

Any participant
selected by the Committee may be granted dividend equivalents based on the
dividends declared of Shares that are subject to any award, to be credited as of
dividend payment dates, during the period between the date the award is granted
and the date the award is exercised, vests, or expires, as determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion.  Such dividend equivalents shall be
converted to cash or additional Shares by such formula and at such time and
subject to such limitations as may be determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion. 

Page 13 

Section
14.  Beneficiary Designation 

Each Participant
under the Plan may, from time to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries
(who may be named contingently or successively) to whom any benefit under the
Plan is to be paid in case of his or her death before he or she receives any or
all of such benefit.  Each such designation shall revoke all
prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the
Committee, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing
with the Company during the Participant s lifetime.  In the absence of
any such designation, benefits remaining unpaid at the Participant s death shall
be paid to the Participant s estate. 

Section
15.  Rights of Participants 

15.1   Employment  

Nothing in the Plan
or an Award Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the
Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries, to terminate any Participant s
employment or service on the Board at any time or for any reason not prohibited
by law, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue his or her
employment or service as a Director for any specified period of
time. 

Neither an award
nor any benefits arising under this Plan shall constitute an employment contract
with the Company, its Affiliates, and/or its Subsidiaries and, accordingly,
subject to Sections 3 and 11, this Plan and the benefits hereunder may be
terminated at any time in the sole and exclusive discretion of the Committee
without giving rise to any liability on the part of the Company, its Affiliates,
and/or its Subsidiaries. 

15.2   Participation  

No individual shall
have the right to be selected to receive an award under this Plan, or, having
been so selected, to be selected to receive a future award. 

15.3   Rights as a
Stockholder  

Except as otherwise
provided herein, a Participant shall have none of the rights of a stockholder
with respect to Shares covered by any award until the Participant becomes the
record holder of such Shares. 

15.4   Clawback
Provision  

Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including Section 11.3 which
prohibits material and adverse modifications to any award previously granted
under the Plan, any participant who is an officer of the Company whose
negligent, intentional or gross misconduct contributes to the Company s having
to restate all or a portion of its financial statements, will be required to
forfeit awards granted under this Plan and repay the Company the total amount of
award gain realized by the participant upon the exercise of an option or
settlement of an award, as determined by the Board of Directors, an authorized
committee, or its designee, pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Guidelines on
Corporate Governance Issues as adopted on February 14, 2007 and any subsequent
amendments.  Any award granted under this Plan prior to February 14,
2007 is subject to the provisions of this Section 15.4 only with the written
consent of the participant. 

Page 14 

Section
16.  Successors 

All obligations of
the Company under the Plan with respect to awards granted hereunder shall be
binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor
is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or
otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the
Company. 

Section
17.  Nonexclusivity of the Plan 

The adoption of
this Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the
Board or Committee to adopt such other compensation arrangements as it may deem
desirable for any Participant. 

Section
18.  No Constraint on Corporate Action 

Nothing in this
Plan shall be construed to: (i) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company s
or a Subsidiary s or an Affiliate s right or power to make adjustments,
reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business
structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer
all or any part of its business or assets; or, (ii) limit the right or power of
the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate to take any action which such entity
deems to be necessary or appropriate. 

Section
19.  Governing Law 

The Plan and each
Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Illinois,
excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise
refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of
another jurisdiction.  Unless otherwise provided in the Award
Agreement, recipients of an award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the
exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Illinois, to
resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any
related Award Agreement. 

Section
20.  Duration of the Plan 

Unless sooner
terminated as provided herein, the Plan shall terminate ten years from the date
it was initially adopted. After the Plan is terminated, no awards may be granted
but awards previously granted shall remain outstanding in accordance with their
applicable terms and conditions and the Plan s terms and
conditions. 

Section
21.  Effective Date 

This Plan
Restatement shall be effective February 14, 2007. 

Page 15  

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 ex_10-2.htm
 2006 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

ex_10-2.htm 

Exhibit
10.2 

      Caterpillar
Inc. 

2006
Long-Term Incentive Plan 

(Amended and
Restated through Third Amendment) 

Section
1.                       

      Establishment,
Objectives and Duration 

1.1. 
   Establishment  .    Subject to the approval of
the stockholders of Caterpillar Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ),
the Company has established the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan
(the  Plan ), as set forth herein.  The Plan supersedes and replaces
all prior equity and non-equity long-term incentive compensation plans or
programs maintained by the Company; provided that, any prior plans of the
Company shall remain in effect until all awards granted under such prior plans
have been exercised, forfeited, canceled, expired or otherwise terminated in
accordance with the terms of such grants  .  

1.2. 
   Purpose  .   The
Plan is intended to provide certain present and future employees and Directors
cash-based incentives, stock-based incentives and other equity interests in the
Company thereby giving them a stake in the growth and prosperity of the Company
and encouraging the continuance of their services with the Company or its
Subsidiaries. 

1.3. 
   Effective
Date . The Plan is effective as of the later of (a) the date the Plan is
adopted by the Board or (b) the date the Company s stockholders approve the Plan
(the  Effective Date ).  The Plan will be deemed to be approved by the
stockholders if it receives the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of
the shares of stock of the Company present or represented and entitled to vote
at a meeting duly held in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Company. 

1.4. 
   Duration  .     The Plan shall remain
in effect, subject to the right of the Company s Board of Directors to amend or
terminate the Plan at any time pursuant to Section 16, until all Shares subject
to the Plan shall have been purchased or granted according to the Plan s
provisions.  However, in no event may an Award be granted under the
Plan on or after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.  Upon
termination of the Plan, no Awards may be granted but Awards previously granted
shall remain outstanding in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the
applicable Award Document. 

Section
2.                       

      Definitions
and Construction 

When a word or
phrase appears in the Plan with the initial letter capitalized, and the word or
phrase does not commence a sentence, the word or phrase shall generally be given
the meaning ascribed to it in this Section unless a clearly different meaning is
required by the context.  The following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings: 

2.1. 
      Award     means,
individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Nonqualified Stock
Options, Incentive Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock,
Performance Shares or Performance Units. 

2.2. 
      Award
Document     means
any agreement, contract, or other written instrument that evidences an Award
granted to the Participant under the Plan and sets forth the terms and
provisions applicable to such Award. 

Page 1 

2.3. 
      Award
Gain       means   (a) with respect to a
given Option exercise, the product of (X) the excess of the Fair Market Value of
a Share on the date of exercise over the Option Price times (Y) the number of
shares as to which the Option was exercised at that date, and (b) with respect
to any other settlement of an Award granted to the Participant, the Fair Market
Value of the cash or Shares paid or payable to the Participant (regardless of
any elective deferral pursuant to Section 13) less any cash or the Fair Market
Value of any Shares or property (other than an Award that would have itself then
been forfeitable hereunder and excluding any payment of tax withholding) paid by
the Participant to the Company as a condition of or in connection such
settlement. 

2.4. 
      Board     .  means the
Board of Directors of the Company. 

2.5. 
      Cause     .  means,
except as otherwise provided in an Award Document, a willful engaging in gross
misconduct materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.  For
this purpose,  willful  means an act or omission in bad faith and without
reasonable belief that such act or omission was in or not opposed to the best
interests of the Company. 

2.6. 
      Change
of Control     .  means the occurrence of any of
the following events: (a) any person becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined
in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of
the Company representing 15 percent or more of the combined voting power of the
Company s then outstanding common stock, unless the Board by resolution negates
the effect of this provision in a particular circumstance, deeming that
resolution to be in the best interests of Company stockholders; (b) during any
period of two consecutive years, there shall cease to be a majority of the Board
comprised of individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the
Board; (c) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation
which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding
immediately prior thereto representing (either by remaining outstanding or by
being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) less than fifty
percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or
such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or
consolidation; or (d) Company stockholders approve a plan of complete
liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all of its assets. 

2.7. 
      Code     .  means the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, or any successor
legislation thereto. 

2.8. 
      Committee     .  means the
Compensation Committee of the Board, appointed to administer the Plan, as
provided in Section 3. 

2.9. 
      Company     .  means Caterpillar Inc., a
Delaware corporation, and any successor to such entity as provided in Section
18. 

2.10. 
      Director     .  means any individual who is a
member of the Board. 

2.11. 
      Disability     .  means, unless otherwise
provided for in an employment, change of control or similar agreement in effect
between the Participant and the Company or a Subsidiary or in an Award Document,
(a) in the case of an Employee, the Employee qualifying for long-term disability
benefits under any long-term disability program sponsored by the Company or
Subsidiary in which the Employee participates, and (b) in the case of a
Director, the inability of the Director to engage in any substantial gainful
business activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental
impairment that can be expected to result in death, or which has lasted or can
be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, as
determined by the Committee, based upon medical evidence. 

2.12. 
      Effective
Date     .  means the
date specified in Section 1.3. 

Page 2 

2.13. 
      Employee     .  means any
employee of the Company or any Subsidiary. 

2.14. 
      Exchange
Act     .  means the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, or any successor act
thereto. 

2.15. 
      Fair
Market Value     .  means, as of any given date,
the fair market value of a Share on a particular date determined by such methods
or procedures as may be established from time to time by the
Committee.  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Fair
Market Value of a Share as of any date shall be the mean between the high and
low prices at which the Share is traded on the New York Stock Exchange for that
date or, if no prices are reported for that date, the prices on the next
preceding date for which prices were reported.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of Section
6.5(d) of the Plan, Fair Market Value means the actual price at which the Shares
used to acquire Shares are sold. 

2.16. 
      Family
Member     means
any (a) child; (b) stepchild; (c) grandchild; (d) parent; (e) stepparent; (f)
grandparent; (g) spouse; (h) former spouse; (i) sibling; (j) niece; (k) nephew;
(l) mother-in-law; (m) father-in-law; (n) son-in-law; (o) daughter-in-law; (p)
brother-in-law; or (q) sister-in-law of the Participant (including adoptive
relationships).  Family Member also shall mean any person sharing in
the Participant s household (other than a tenant or an employee). 

2.17. 
      Good
Reason     .  means,
except as otherwise provided in an Award Document, the occurrence of any of the
following circumstances (unless such circumstances are fully corrected by the
Company before a Participant s termination of employment): 

(a)     the Company s
assignment of any duties materially inconsistent with the Participant s position
within the Company, or which have a significant adverse alteration in the nature
or status of the responsibilities of the Participant s employment;
or 

(b)     a material
reduction by the Company in the Participant s annual base salary, unless such
reduction is part of a compensation reduction program affecting all similarly
situated management employees. 

2.18. 
      Incentive
Stock Option     .  or     ISO     means
the right to purchase Shares pursuant terms and conditions that provide that
such right will be treated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of
Code Section 422, as described in Section 6. 

2.19. 
      Long
Service Separation     means,
except as otherwise provided in an Award Document, a termination of employment
with the Company or a Subsidiary after the attainment of age 55 and the
completion of ten or more years of service with the Company and/or its
Subsidiaries. 

2.20. 
      Named
Executive Office  r   .  means a
Participant who is one of the group of covered employees as defined in the
regulations promulgated under Code Section 162(m), or any successor provision or
statute. 

2.21. 
      Nonqualified
Stock Option     .  or     NQSO     .  means the right to purchase
Shares pursuant to terms and conditions that provide that such right will not be
treated as an Incentive Stock Option, as described in Section 6. 

2.22. 
      Option     . 
means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option, as described in
Section 6. 

2.23. 
      Option
Price     .  means the
per share price of a Share available for purchase pursuant to an
Option. 

2.24. 
      Participant     . 
means an Employee, prospective Employee, Director, beneficiary or any other
person who has outstanding an Award granted under the Plan, and includes those
former Employees and Directors who have certain post-termination rights under
the terms of an Award granted under the Plan. 

Page
3 

2.25. 
      Performance-Based
Exception     .  means the
exception for performance-based compensation from the tax deductibility
limitations of Code Section 162(m). 

2.26. 
      Performance
Period     .  means the
time period during which performance goals must be achieved with respect to an
Award, as determined by the Committee. 

2.27. 
      Performance
Share     .  means an Award granted to a
Participant, as described in Section 9. 

2.28. 
      Performance
Unit     .  means an
Award granted to a Participant, as described in Section 9. 

2.29. 
      Period
of Restriction     .  means the period during which
the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock is limited in some way, and the
Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture, as provided in Section
8. 

2.30. 
      Permitted
Transferee     means
any one or more of the following: (a) Family Members; (b) a trust in which the
Participant and/or Family Members have more than fifty percent of the beneficial
interest; (c) a foundation in which the Participant and/or Family Members
control the management of the assets; or (d) any other entity in which the
Participant and/or Family Members own more than fifty percent of the voting
interests. 

2.31. 
      Plan     .  means the Caterpillar Inc. 2006
Long-Term Incentive Plan, as set forth herein. 

2.32. 
      Restricted
Stock     .  means an
Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8. 

2.33. 
      Section
16 Officer     means
any Employee who is considered an officer of the Company for purposes of Section
16 of the Exchange Act. 

2.34. 
      Share      or      Shares     .  means shares
of common stock of the Company.  

2.35. 
      Stock
Appreciation Right      or      SAR     .  means an Award, granted alone
or in connection with a related Option, designated as an SAR, pursuant to the
terms of Section 7. 

2.36. 
      Subsidiary     .  means any corporation,
partnership, joint venture, affiliate, or other entity in which the Company is
at least a majority-owner of all issued and outstanding equity interests or has
a controlling interest. 

2.37. 
      Tandem
SAR     .  means a SAR that is granted in
connection with a related Option pursuant to Section 7, the exercise of which
shall require forfeiture of the right to purchase a Share under the related
Option (and when a Share is purchased under the Option, the Tandem SAR shall
similarly be forfeited). 

2.38. 
      Non-Tandem
SAR     .  means a SAR
that is granted independently of any Options, as described in Section
7. 

Section
3.                       

      Administration 

3.1. 
    Plan
Administration  .   The Committee, or
any other committee appointed by the Board, shall administer the
Plan.  The Committee or other committee appointed to administer the
Plan shall consist of not less than two non-Employee Directors of the Company,
within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act and not less than two
outside directors, within the meaning of Code Section 162(m).  The
Board may, from time to time, remove members from, or add members to, the
Committee.  Members of the Board shall fill any vacancies on the
Committee.  Acts of a majority of the Committee at a meeting at which
a quorum is present, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by unanimous
consent of the members of the Committee, shall be valid acts of the
Committee. 

Page
4 

3.2. 
   Authority
of the Committee  .   Except
as limited by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws of the
Company, and subject to the provisions herein, the Committee shall have full
power to select Employees, prospective Employees and Directors who shall
participate in the Plan; determine the sizes and types of Awards; determine the
terms and conditions of Awards in a manner consistent with the Plan; construe
and interpret the Plan and any agreement or instrument entered into under the
Plan; establish, amend, or waive rules and regulations for the Plan s
administration; and amend the terms and conditions of any outstanding Award to
the extent such terms and conditions are within the sole discretion of the
Committee as provided in the Plan and subject to Section 16.  Further,
the Committee shall make all other determinations, which may be necessary or
advisable for the administration of the Plan.  As permitted by law,
the Committee may delegate the authority granted to it herein. 

3.3. 
   Electronic
Administration . The Committee may, in its discretion, utilize a system
for complete or partial electronic administration of the Plan and may replace
any written documents described in the Plan with electronic counterparts, as
appropriate. 

3.4. 
   Decisions
Binding  .   All
determinations and decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of
the Plan and all related orders and resolutions of the Board shall be final,
conclusive and binding on all persons, including the Company, its stockholders,
Employees, Participants, and their estates and beneficiaries. 

Section
4.                       

      Shares
Subject to the Plan and Maximum Awards 

4.1.    Shares
Available for Awards .  

(a)     The Shares
available for Awards may be either authorized and unissued Shares or Shares held
in or acquired for the treasury of the Company.  The aggregate number
of Shares that may be issued or used for reference purposes under the Plan or
with respect to which Awards may be granted shall not exceed twenty million
(20,000,000) Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in Section
4.3.  In addition, seventeen million six hundred thousand (17,600,000)
Shares authorized but unissued pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. 1996 Stock
Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan shall be reserved and available for grant
under the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the aggregate number
of Shares with respect to which ISOs may be granted shall not exceed the number
specified above, and provided further, that up to an aggregate of twenty percent
(20%) of the authorized Shares under the Plan may be issued with respect to
Awards of Restricted Stock and up to an aggregate of twenty percent (20%) of the
authorized Shares under the Plan may be issued with respect to Awards of
Performance Shares. 

(b)     Upon: 

(i)   a payout of a Non-Tandem SAR or Tandem
SAR in the form of cash  ;  

(ii)     a cancellation,
termination, expiration, forfeiture, or lapse for any reason (with the exception
of the termination of a Tandem SAR upon exercise of the related Options, or the
termination of a related Option upon exercise of the corresponding Tandem SAR)
of any Award; or 

(iii)     payment of an
Option Price or payout of any Award with previously acquired Shares or by
withholding Shares which otherwise would be acquired on exercise or issued upon
such payout, 

Page
5 

the number of
Shares underlying any such Award that were not issued as a result of any of the
foregoing actions shall again be available for the purposes of Awards under the
Plan.  In addition, in the case of any Award granted in substitution
for an award of a company or business acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary,
Shares issued or issuable in connection with such substitute Award shall not be
counted against the number of Shares reserved under the Plan, but shall be
available under the Plan by virtue of the Company s assumption of the plan or
arrangement of the acquired company or business. 

4.2. 
   Individual
Participant Limitations  .   Unless
and until the Committee determines that an Award to a Named Executive Officer
shall not be designed to comply with the Performance-Based Exception, the
following rules shall apply to grants of such Awards under the
Plan: 

(a)     Subject to
adjustment as provided in Section 4.3, the maximum aggregate number of Shares
(including Options, SARs, Restricted Stock and Performance Shares to be paid out
in Shares) that may be granted in any one fiscal year to a Participant shall be
800,000 Shares. 

(b)     Except as otherwise
provided in Section 7.5(b) regarding SAR exercise, the maximum aggregate cash
payout (including Performance Units and Performance Shares paid out in cash)
with respect to Awards granted in any one fiscal year that may be made to any
Participant shall be $5 million. 

4.3. 
   Adjustments
in Authorized Shares  .   In
the event of any change in corporate capitalization, such as a stock split, or a
corporate transaction, such as any merger, consolidation, separation, including
a spin-off, or other distribution of stock or property of the Company, any
reorganization (whether or not such reorganization comes within the definition
of such term in Code Section 368) or any partial or complete liquidation of the
Company, an adjustment shall be made in the number and class of Shares available
for Awards, the number and class of and/or price of Shares subject to
outstanding Awards granted under the Plan and the number of Shares set forth in
Sections 4.1 and 4.2, to prevent dilution or enlargement of
rights.  Such adjustment shall be made in a manner determined by the
Committee, in its sole discretion, to be appropriate and equitable; provided,
however, that (a) no such adjustment shall cause an increase in the fair value
of an Award for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004) or any successor thereto; and (b) the number of Shares subject to
any Award shall always be a whole number by rounding any fractional Share (up or
down) to the nearest whole Share. 

Section
5.                      

      Eligibility
and Participation 

5.1. 
   Eligibility  .     Persons eligible to
participate in the Plan include all current and future Employees (including
officers), persons who have been offered employment by the Company or a
Subsidiary (provided that such prospective Employee may not receive any payment
or exercise any right relating to an Award until such person begins employment
with the Company or Subsidiary), and Directors, as determined by the
Committee. 

5.2.  
   Participation  .     Subject to the
provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall determine and designate, from time
to time, the Employees, prospective Employees, and Directors to whom Awards
shall be granted, the terms of such Awards, and the number of Shares subject to
such Award. 

Page
6 

5.3.      Foreign
Participants .  In order to assure the viability of Awards
granted to Participants employed in foreign countries, the Committee may provide
for such special terms as it may consider necessary or appropriate to
accommodate differences in local law, tax policy, or
custom.  Moreover, the Committee may approve such supplements to, or
amendments, restatements, or alternative versions of the Plan as it may consider
necessary or appropriate for such purposes without thereby affecting the terms
of the Plan as in effect for any other purpose; provided, however, that no such
supplements, amendments, restatements, or alternative versions shall increase
the share limitations contained in Section 4 of the Plan. 

Section
6.                       

      Stock
Options 

6.1.    Grant of
Options .   

(a)      Option
Grant  .    Subject to the terms and
provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to one or more Participants in
such number, upon such terms and provisions, and at any time and from time to
time, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.  The
Committee may grant either Nonqualified Stock Options or (in the case of Options
granted to Employees) Incentive Stock Options, and shall have complete
discretion in determining the number of Options of each granted to each
Participant, subject to the limitations of Section 4.  Each Option
grant shall be evidenced by a resolution of the Committee approving the Option
grant. 

(b)      Award
Document  .     All Options shall be
evidenced by an Award Document.  The Award Document shall specify the
Option Price, the term of the Option, the number of Shares subject to the
Option, and such other provisions as the Committee shall determine, and which
are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan.  The
Award Document shall also specify whether the Option is to be treated as an ISO
within the meaning of Code Section 422.  If such Option is not
designated as an ISO, such Option shall be a NQSO. 

6.2. 
   Option
Price  .     The Committee shall
designate the Option Price for each Share subject to an Option under the Plan,
provided that such Option Price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market
Value of Shares subject to an Option on the date the Option is granted, and
which Option Price may not be subsequently changed by the Committee except
pursuant to Section 4.3.  With respect to a Participant who owns,
directly or indirectly, more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all
classes of the stock of the Company or any Subsidiary, the Option Price of
Shares subject to an ISO shall be at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of such
Shares on the ISO s grant date. 

6.3. 
   Term
of Options  .     Each Option granted to
a Participant shall expire at such time as the Committee shall determine at the
time of grant, but in no event shall be exercisable later than the 10th
anniversary of the grant date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, with
respect to ISOs, in the case of a Participant who owns, directly or indirectly,
more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of the stock of
the Company or any Subsidiary, no such ISO shall be exercisable  later than the fifth anniversary of
the grant date.  

Page
7 

6.4. 
   Exercise
of Options  .    Options granted under
this Section 6 shall be exercisable at such times and be subject to such
restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall in each instance approve,
which need not be the same for each grant or for each Participant, and shall be
set forth in the applicable Award Document.  Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, the Fair Market Value of Shares to which ISOs are
exercisable for the first time by any Participant during any calendar year
(under all plans of the Company and its Subsidiaries) may not exceed
$100,000.  Any ISOs that become exercisable in excess of such amount
shall be deemed NQSOs to the extent of such excess.  If the Award
Document does not specify the time or times at which the Option shall first
become exercisable, such an Option shall become fully vested and exercisable by
the Participant on the third anniversary of the grant date. 

6.5. 
   Payment  .    Options granted under
this Section 6 shall be exercised by the delivery of a notice of exercise to the
Company (or its designated agent(s)), setting forth the number of Shares with
respect to which the Option is to be exercised, accompanied by full payment for
the Shares.  The Option Price upon exercise of any Option shall be
payable to the Company in full either: 

(a)     in cash or its
equivalent, or 

(b)     by tendering
previously acquired Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value at the time of
exercise equal to the total Option Price, or 

(c)     by cashless
exercise through delivery of irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly
deliver to the Company the amount of proceeds from a sale of shares having a
Fair Market Value equal to the purchase price. 

6.6. 
   Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .     The Committee, in its
sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award Document the extent to
which a Participant shall have the right to exercise the Option or Options
following termination of his or her employment with the Company or any
Subsidiary or following termination of his or her service as a
Director.  Such provisions need not be uniform among all Options
issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons
for such termination, including, but not limited to, termination for Cause or
for Good Reason, or reasons relating to the breach or threatened breach of
restrictive covenants.  Subject to Section 15, in the event that
a Participant s Award Document does not set forth such provisions, the following
provisions shall apply: 

(a)      Long
Service Separation, Death or Disability  .  If a Participant s
employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as a Director
terminates by reason of Long Service Separation, death or Disability, to the
extent that the Option is not exercisable, all Shares covered by his or her
Options shall immediately become fully vested and shall remain exercisable until
the earlier of (i) the remainder of the term of the Option, or (ii) 60 months
from the date of such termination.  In the case of the Participant s
death, the Participant s beneficiary or estate may exercise the
Option. 

(b)      Termination
for Cause  .  If a
Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as a
Director terminates for Cause, all Options granted to such Participant shall
expire immediately and all rights to purchase Shares (vested or nonvested) under
the Options shall cease upon such termination. 

Page
8 

(c  )       Other
Termination  .  If
a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as
a Director terminates for any reason other than Long Service Separation, death,
Disability, or for Cause, all Options shall remain exercisable until the earlier
of (i) the remainder of the term of the Option, or (ii) 60 days from the date of
such termination.  In such circumstance, the Option shall only be
exercisable to the extent that it was exercisable as of such termination date
and shall not be exercisable with respect to any additional
Shares. 

6.7. 
   Restrictions
on Shares  .    The Committee may impose
such restrictions on any Shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Option
granted under this Section 6 as it may deem advisable, including, without
limitation, restrictions under applicable Federal securities laws, under the
requirements of any stock exchange or market upon which such Shares are then
listed and/or traded, and under any blue sky or state or foreign securities laws
applicable to such Shares. 

6.8.    Transferability
of Options .  

(a)      Incentive
Stock Options  .    No ISO granted under the
Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution.  Further, all ISOs granted to a Participant under the
Plan shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such
Participant. 

(b)      Nonqualified
Stock Options  .
 NQSOs may only be transferred in accordance with this Section
6.8(b). 

(i)  Except
as otherwise provided in paragraph (ii) below or in an Award Document, no NQSO
shall be assignable or transferable by a Participant other than by will, by the
laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a Domestic Relations Order (as
such term is defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code). 

(ii)  NQSOs
(whether vested or unvested) held by (A) Participants who are Section 16
Officers; (B) Participants who are Directors; or (C) any Participants who
previously held the positions in clauses (A) and (B) may be transferred by gift
or by domestic relations order to one or more Permitted
Transferees.  NQSOs (whether vested or unvested) held by all other
Participants and by Permitted Transferees may be transferred by gift or by
domestic relations order only to Permitted Transferees upon the prior written
approval of the Company s Director of Compensation + Benefits. 

6.9.    Accleration
of Vesting  .    Notwithstanding
anything in this Section 6 to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole
discretion, shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of Options at any
time. 

Section
7.                      

      Stock
Appreciation Rights 

7.1.    Grant of
SARs .  

(a)      SAR
Grant  .       Subject to the terms and
provisions of the Plan, SARs may be granted to Participants in such number, upon
such terms and provisions, and at any time and from time to time, as determined
by the Committee in its sole discretion.  The Committee may grant
Non-Tandem SARs, Tandem SARs, or any combination of these forms of
SARs.  The Committee shall have complete discretion in determining the
number of SARs granted to each Participant (subject to Section 4) and,
consistent with the provisions of the Plan, in determining the terms and
conditions pertaining to such SARs.  The Committee shall designate, at
the time of grant, the grant price of a Non-Tandem SAR, which grant price shall
not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the grant date of
the SAR.  The grant price of Tandem SARs shall equal the Option Price
of the related Option.  Grant prices of SARs shall not subsequently be
changed by the Committee, except pursuant to Section 4.3. 

Page
9 

(b)      Award
Document  .   All SARs shall
be evidenced by an Award Document.  The Award Document shall specify
the grant price, the term of the SAR, and such other provisions as the Committee
shall determine, and which are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of
the Plan. 

7.2. 
   Term
of SARs  .     The term of a SAR
granted under the Plan shall be determined by the Committee, in its sole
discretion; provided, however, that unless otherwise designated by the
Committee, such term shall not exceed ten years from the grant
date. 

7.3. 
   Exercise
of Tandem SARs  .    Tandem SARs may be
exercised for all or part of the Shares subject to the related Option upon the
surrender of the right to exercise the equivalent portion of the related
Option.  A Tandem SAR may be exercised only with respect to the Shares
for which its related Option is then exercisable.  Notwithstanding any
other provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to a Tandem SAR
granted in connection with an ISO:  (i) the Tandem SAR will expire no
later than the expiration of the underlying ISO; (ii) the value of the payout
with respect to the Tandem SAR may be for no more than 100% of the difference
between the Option Price of the underlying ISO and the Fair Market Value of the
Shares subject to the underlying ISO at the time the Tandem SAR is exercised;
and (iii) the Tandem SAR may be exercised only when the Fair Market Value of the
Shares subject to the ISO exceeds the Option Price of the ISO. 

7.4. 
   Exercise
of Non-Tandem SARs  .     Non-Tandem SARs may be
exercised upon whatever terms and conditions the Committee, in its sole
discretion, imposes upon them. 

7.5. 
   Payment
of SAR Amount  .  

(a)     Upon exercise of a
SAR, a Participant shall be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an
amount determined by multiplying: 

(i)     The excess of the
Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the grant price;
by 

(ii)     The number of
Shares with respect to which the SAR is exercised. 

(b)     Unless otherwise
provided in the Award Document, the payment upon SAR exercise may be in cash, in
Shares of equivalent value, or in some combination thereof.  If, and
to the extent that the payment upon SAR exercise is made in cash, such cash
payment shall not be subject to the limitation of Section 4.2(b). 

7.6. 
   Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .    The Committee, in its
sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award Document the extent to
which a Participant shall have the right to exercise the SAR or SARs following
termination of his or her employment with the Company or any Subsidiary or
following termination of his or her service as a Director.  Such
provisions need not be uniform among all SARs issued pursuant to the Plan, and
may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for such termination, including,
but not limited to, termination for Cause or for Good Reason, or reasons
relating to the breach or threatened breach of restrictive
covenants.  Subject to Section 15, in the event that a Participant s
Award Document does not set forth such provisions, the following provisions
shall apply: 

(a)      Long
Service Separation, Death or Disability  .  If a Participant s
employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as a Director
terminates by reason of Long Service Separation, death or Disability, to the
extent that the SARs are not exercisable, all of his or her SARs shall
immediately become fully vested and shall remain exercisable until the earlier
of (i) the remainder of the term of the SAR, or (ii) 60 months from the date of
such termination.  In the case of the Participant s death, the
Participant s beneficiary or estate may exercise the SAR. 

Page
10 

(b)      Termination
for Cause  .  If a
Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as a
Director terminates for Cause, all SARs shall expire immediately and all rights
thereunder shall cease upon such termination. 

(c)      Other
Termination  .  If
a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as
a Director terminates for any reason other than Long Service Separation, death,
Disability, or for Cause, all SARs shall remain exerciseable until the earlier
of (i) the remainder of the term of the SAR, or (ii) 60 days from the date of
such termination.  In such circumstance, the SAR shall only be
exercisable to the extent it was exercisable as of such termination date and
shall not be exercisable with respect to any additional SARs. 

7.8.    Acceleration
of Vesting  .   Notwithstanding
anything in this Section 7 to the contrary, the Committee, in its sole
discretion, shall have the authority to accelerate the vesting of SARs at any
time. 

Section
8.                       

      Restricted
Stock 

      8.1.    Grant
of Restricted Stock .  

(a)      Grant of
Restricted Stock  .
    Subject to
the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Committee, at any time and from time
to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Participants in such amounts as
the Committee shall determine. 

(b)      Award
Document  .   All
shares of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award
Document.  The Award Document shall specify the Period or Periods of
Restriction (consistent with the next sentence), the number of Shares of
Restricted Stock granted, and such other provisions as the Committee shall
determine pursuant to Section 8.3 or otherwise, and which shall not be
inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan.  Shares of
Restricted Stock not in excess of five percent of the number of shares that may
be issued with respect to Awards of Restricted Stock, as provided in Section
4.1, may have a Period or Periods of Restriction as determined by the Committee
in its sole discretion, and any other shares of Restricted Stock shall have a
Period of Restriction, as determined by the Committee, that shall not lapse in
any respect until on or after the third anniversary of the grant
date.  If no Period of Restriction is set forth in the Award Document,
the transfer and any other restrictions shall lapse (i) to the extent of
one-third of the Shares (rounded to the nearest whole) covered by the Restricted
Stock Award on the third anniversary of the grant date, (ii) to the extent of
two-thirds of the Shares (rounded to the nearest whole) covered by the
Restricted Stock Award on the fourth anniversary of the grant date, and (iii) to
the extent of 100% of the Shares covered by the Restricted Stock Award on the
fifth anniversary of the grant date. 

8.2. 
   Other
Restrictions .  Subject to Section 10 herein, the Committee may
impose such other conditions and/or restrictions on any Shares of Restricted
Stock granted pursuant to the Plan as it may deem advisable including without
limitation, a requirement that Shares will not be issued until the end of the
applicable Period of Restriction, a requirement that Participants pay a
stipulated purchase price for each Share of Restricted Stock, restrictions based
upon the achievement of specific performance goals (Company-wide,
Subsidiary-wide, divisional, and/or individual), time-based restrictions on
vesting, which may or may not be following the attainment of the performance
goals, sales restrictions under applicable shareholder agreements or similar
agreements, and/or restrictions under applicable Federal or state securities
laws.  The Company shall retain the certificates representing Shares
of Restricted Stock in the Company s possession until such time as all
conditions and/or restrictions applicable to such Shares have been
satisfied.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8 or in any
Award Document, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock
grant made under the Plan shall become freely transferable by the Participant
after the last day of the applicable Period of Restriction. 

Page
11 

8.3. 
   Voting
Rights  .     Unless otherwise
designated by the Committee at the time of grant, Participants to whom Shares of
Restricted Stock have been granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights
with respect to those Shares during the Period of Restriction. 

8.4. 
   Dividends
and Other Distributions  .     Unless otherwise
designated by the Committee at the time of grant, Participants holding Shares of
Restricted Stock granted hereunder shall be credited with regular cash dividends
paid with respect to the underlying Shares while they are so held during the
Period of Restriction.  The Committee may apply any restrictions to
the dividends that the Committee deems appropriate.  Without limiting
the generality of the preceding sentence, if the grant or vesting of Shares of
Restricted Stock granted to a Named Executive Officer is designed to comply with
the requirements of the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may apply any
restrictions it deems appropriate to the payment of dividends declared with
respect to such Shares of Restricted Stock, such that the dividends and/or the
Shares of Restricted Stock maintain eligibility for the Performance-Based
Exception.  In the event that any dividend constitutes a derivative
security or an equity security pursuant to the rules under Section 16 of the
Exchange Act, such dividend shall be subject to a vesting period equal to the
remaining vesting period of the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which
the dividend is paid. 

8.5. 
   Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .    The Committee, in its
sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award Document the extent to
which the Participant shall have the right to receive unvested Shares of
Restricted Stock following termination of the Participant s employment with the
Company and/or its Subsidiaries or termination of service as a
Director.  Such provisions need not be uniform among all Shares of
Restricted Stock issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based
on the reasons for termination of employment including; but not limited to,
termination of employment for Cause or for Good Reason, or reasons relating to
the breach or threatened breach of restrictive covenants; provided, however
that, except in the cases of terminations connected with a Change of Control and
terminations by reason of death or Disability, the vesting of Shares of
Restricted Stock that qualify for the Performance-Based Exception and that are
held by Named Executive Officers shall not occur before the time they otherwise
would have, but for the employment termination.  Subject to Section
15, in the event that a Participant s Award Document does not set forth such
termination provisions, the following termination provisions shall
apply: 

(a)      Death and
Disability  .
 Unless the Award qualifies for the Performance-Based Exception, if a
Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as a
Director is terminated due to death or Disability, all Shares of Restricted
Stock of such Participant shall immediately become fully vested on the date of
such termination and any restrictions shall lapse. 

(b)      Other
Termination  .  If
a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as
a Director is terminated for any reason other than death or Disability all
Shares of Restricted Stock that are unvested at the date of termination shall be
forfeited to the Company. 

8.6. 
   Acceleration
of Vesting .  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 8 to the
contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to
accelerate the vesting of Shares of Restricted Stock at any time. 

8.7. 
   Transferability  .   Except as
provided in this Section 8, the Shares of Restricted Stock granted herein may
not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or
hypothecated, voluntarily or involuntarily, until the end of the applicable
Period of Restriction established by the Committee and specified in the Award
Document, or upon earlier satisfaction of any other conditions, as specified by
the Committee in its sole discretion and set forth in the Award
Document.  All rights with respect to the Restricted Stock granted to
a Participant under the Plan shall be available during his or her lifetime only
to such Participant. 

Page
12 

Section
9.                       

      Performance
Units and Performance Shares 

9.1.    Grant of
Performance Units/Shares .  

(a)      Grant of
Performance Unit/Shares  .     Subject to the terms of
the Plan, Performance Units and/or Performance Shares may be granted to
Participants in such amounts and upon such terms, and at any time and from time
to time, as shall be determined by the Committee, which shall not be
inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Plan and shall be set forth in
an Award Document. 

(b)      Award
Document  .  All
Performance Units and Performance Shares shall be evidenced by an Award
Document.  The Award Document shall specify the initial value of the
Award, the performance goals and the Performance Period, as the Committee shall
determine, and which are not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the
Plan. 

9.2. 
   Value
of Performance Units/Shares  .     Each Performance Unit
shall have an initial value (which may be $0) that is established by the
Committee at the time of grant.  Each Performance Share shall have an
initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the grant
date.  The Committee shall set performance goals in its sole
discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met will determine
the number and/or value of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares that will
be paid out to the Participant.  For purposes of this Section 9, the
time period during which the performance goals must be met shall be called a
Performance Period.  Performance Shares not in excess of five percent
of the number of shares that may be issued with respect to Awards of Performance
Shares, as provided in Section 4.1, may have a Performance Period as determined
by the Committee in its sole discretion, and any other Performance Shares shall
have a Performance Period, as determined by the Committee, of not less than one
year. 

9.3. 
   Earning
of Performance Units/Shares  .     Subject to the terms of
the Plan, after the applicable Performance Period has ended, the holder of
Performance Units and/or Performance Shares shall be entitled to receive payout
on the number and value of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares earned by
the Participant over the Performance Period, to be determined as a function of
the extent to which the corresponding performance goals have been achieved, as
established by the Committee. 

9.4. 
   Form
and Timing of Payment of Performance Units/Shares  .     Except as provided
below, payment of earned Performance Units and/or Performance Shares shall be
made in a single lump sum as soon as reasonably practicable following the close
of the applicable Performance Period.  Subject to the terms of the
Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may pay earned Performance Units
and/or Performance Shares in the form of cash or in Shares (or in a combination
thereof) which have an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the value of the
earned Performance Units and/or Performance Shares at the close of the
applicable Performance Period.  Such Shares may be granted subject to
any restrictions deemed appropriate by the Committee.  At the sole
discretion of the Committee, Participants may be entitled to receive any
dividends declared with respect to Shares which have been earned in connection
with grants of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares which have been
earned, but not yet distributed to Participants. 

Page
13 

9.5. 
   Termination
of Employment or Service as a Director  .    The Committee, in its
sole discretion, shall set forth in the applicable Award Document the extent to
which the Participant shall have the right to receive payment for Performance
Units and/or Performance Shares following termination of the Participant s
employment with the Company and/or its Subsidiaries or termination of service as
a Director.  Such provisions need not be uniform among all Performance
Units and/or Performance Shares granted pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect
distinctions based on the reasons for such termination including; but not
limited to, termination for Cause or for Good Reason, or reasons relating to the
breach or threatened breach of restrictive covenants.  Subject to
Section 15, in the event that a Participant s Award Document does not set forth
such termination provisions, the following termination provisions shall
apply: 

(a)      Long
Service Separation, Death or Disability  .  Subject to Section 15, if a
Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as a
Director is terminated during a Performance Period due to Long Service
Termination, death or Disability, the Participant shall receive a prorated
payout of the Performance Units and/or Performance Shares, unless the Committee
determines otherwise.  The prorated payout shall be determined by the
Committee, shall be based upon the length of time that the Participant held the
Performance Units and/or Performance Shares during the Performance Period, and
shall further be adjusted based on the achievement of the preestablished
performance goals.  Unless the Committee determines otherwise in the
event of a termination due to death, Disability or Long Service Separation,
payment of earned Performance Units and/or Performance Shares shall be made at
the same time as payments are made to Participants who did not terminate
employment during the applicable Performance Period. 

(b)      Other
Termination  .  If
a Participant s employment with the Company and/or any Subsidiary or service as
a Director is terminated during a Performance Period for any reason other than
Long Service Termination, death or Disability all Performance Units and/or
Performance Shares shall be forfeited by the Participant to the
Company. 

9.6. 
   Nontransferability  .     Except as otherwise
provided in a Participant s Award Document, Performance Units and/or Performance
Shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated
or hypothecated, other than by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution.  Further, except as otherwise provided in a
Participant s Award Document, a Participant s rights under the Plan shall be
exercisable during the Participant s lifetime only by the Participant or the
Participant s legal representative. 

9.7. 
   Acceleration
of Vesting.   Notwithstanding anything in this Section 9 to the
contrary, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to
accelerate the vesting of Performance Units and/or Performance Shares at any
time. 

Page
14 

Section
10.              

      Performance
Measures 

10.1. 
   Performance
Measures .  Unless and until the Committee proposes for
stockholder vote and stockholders approve a change in the general performance
measures set forth in this Section 10, the attainment of which may determine the
degree of payout and/or vesting with respect to Awards to Named Executive
Officers that are designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the
performance goals to be used for purposes of such grants shall be established by
the Committee in writing and stated in terms of the attainment of specified
levels of or percentage changes in any one or more of the following
measurements: (a) revenue; (b) primary or fully-diluted earnings per Share; (c)
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and/or amortization; (d) pretax
income; (d) cash flow from operations; (e) total cash flow; (f) return on
equity; (g) return on invested capital; (h) return on assets; (i) net operating
profits after taxes; (j) economic value added; (k) total stockholder return; (l)
return on sales; or (m) any individual performance objective which is measured
solely in terms of quantifiable targets related to the Company or the Company s
business; or any combination thereof.  In addition, such performance
goals may be based in whole or in part upon the performance of the Company, a
Subsidiary, division and/or other operational unit under one or more of such
measures. 

10.2. 
   Performance
Procedures .  The degree of payout and/or vesting of such Awards
designed to qualify for the Performance-Based Exception shall be determined
based upon the written certification of the Committee as to the extent to which
the performance goals and any other material terms and conditions precedent to
such payment and/or vesting have been satisfied.  The Committee shall
have the sole discretion to adjust the determinations of the degree of
attainment of the preestablished performance goals; provided, however, that the
performance goals applicable to Awards which are designed to qualify for the
Performance-Based Exception, and which are held by Named Executive Officers, may
not be adjusted so as to increase the payment under the Award (the Committee
shall retain the sole discretion to adjust such performance goals upward, or to
otherwise reduce the amount of the payment and/or vesting of the Award relative
to the pre-established performance goals).  In the event that
applicable tax and/or securities laws change to permit Committee sole discretion
to alter the governing performance measures without obtaining stockholder
approval of such changes, the Committee shall have sole discretion to make such
changes without obtaining stockholder approval.  In addition, in the
event that the Committee determines that it is advisable to grant Awards which
shall not qualify for the Performance-Based Exception, the Committee may make
such grants without satisfying the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and,
thus, which use performance measures other than those specified
above. 

Section 11.       

      Award
Forfeitures 

11.1. 
   Forfeiture
of Options and Other Awards  .     Each Award granted
hereunder shall be subject to the following additional forfeiture conditions, to
which the Participant, by accepting an Award hereunder, agrees.  If
any of the events specified in Section 11.2 occurs (a  Forfeiture Event ), all
of the following forfeitures will result: 

(a)     The unexercised
portion of any Option, whether or not vested, and any other Award not then
settled (except for an Award that has not been settled solely due to an elective
deferral pursuant to Section 13 by the Participant and otherwise is not
forfeitable in the event of any termination of service of the Participant) will
be immediately forfeited and canceled upon the occurrence of the Forfeiture
Event; and 

Page
15 

(b)     The Participant
will be obligated to repay to the Company, in cash, within five business days
after demand is made therefor by the Company, the total amount of Award Gain (as
defined herein) realized by the Participant upon each exercise of an Option or
settlement of an Award (regardless of any elective deferral pursuant to Section
13) that occurred on or after (i) the date that is six months before the
occurrence of the Forfeiture Event, if the Forfeiture Event occurred while the
Participant was employed by the Company or a Subsidiary, or (ii) the date that
is six months before the date the Participant s employment by, or service as a
Director with the Company or a Subsidiary terminated, if the Forfeiture Event
occurred after the Participant ceased to be so employed. 

11.2. 
   Events
Triggering Forfeiture  .    The forfeitures
specified in Section 11.1 will be triggered upon the occurrence of any one of
the following Forfeiture Events at any time during the Participant s employment
by or service as a Director with the Company or a Subsidiary or during the
one-year period following termination of such employment or
service: 

(a)      Non-Solicitation  .   The Participant,
for his or her own benefit or for the benefit of any other person, company or
entity, directly or indirectly, (i) induces or attempts to induce or hires or
otherwise counsels, induces or attempts to induce or hire or otherwise counsel,
advise, encourage or solicit any person to leave the employment of or the
service for the Company or any Subsidiary, (ii) hires or in any manner employs
or retains the services of any individual employed by or providing services to
the Company or any Subsidiary as of the date of his or her termination of
employment, or employed by or providing services to the Company or any
Subsidiary subsequent to such termination, (iii) solicits, pursues, calls upon
or takes away, any of the customers of the Company or any Subsidiary, (iv)
solicits, pursues, calls upon or takes away, any potential customer of the
Company or any Subsidiary that has been the subject of a bid, offer or proposal
by the Company or any Subsidiary, or of substantial preparation with a view to
making such a bid, proposal or offer, within six months before such
Participant s termination of employment with the Company or any Subsidiary, or
(v) otherwise interferes with the business or accounts of the Company or any
Subsidiary. 

(b)      Confidential
Information  .  The
Participant discloses to any person or entity or makes use of any  confidential
or proprietary information  (as defined below in this subparagraph (b)) for his
or her own purpose or for the benefit of any person or entity, except as may be
necessary in the ordinary course of employment with or other service to the
Company or any Subsidiary.  Such  confidential or proprietary
information  of the Company or any Subsidiary, includes, but is not limited to,
the design, development, operation, building or manufacturing of products
manufactured and supplied by the Company and its Subsidiaries, the identity of
the Company s or any Subsidiary s customers, the identity of representatives of
customers with whom the Company or any Subsidiary has dealt, the kinds of
services provided by the Company or any Subsidiary to customers and offered to
be performed for potential customers, the manner in which such services are
performed or offered to be performed, the service needs of actual or prospective
customers, pricing information, information concerning the creation, acquisition
or disposition of products and services, customer maintenance listings, computer
software and hardware applications and other programs, personnel information,
information identifying, relating to or concerning investors in the Company or
any Subsidiary, joint venture partners of the Company or any Subsidiary,
business partners of the Company or any Subsidiary or other entities providing
financing to the Company or any Subsidiary, real estate and leasing
opportunities, communications and telecommunications operations and processes,
zoning and licensing matters, relationships with, or matters involving,
landlords and/or property owners, and other trade secrets. 

Page
16 

11.3. 
   Agreement
Does Not Prohibit Competition or Other Participant Activities  .   Although the
conditions set forth in this Section 11 shall be deemed to be incorporated into
an Award, the Plan does not thereby prohibit the Participant from engaging in
any activity, including but not limited to competition with the Company and its
Subsidiaries.  Rather, the non-occurrence of the Forfeiture Events set
forth in Section 11.2 is a condition to the Participant s right to realize and
retain value from his or her compensatory Awards, and the consequence under the
Plan if the Participant engages in an activity giving rise to any such
Forfeiture Event are the forfeitures specified herein.  This provision
shall not preclude the Company and the Participant from entering into other
written agreements concerning the subject matter of Sections 11.1 and 11.2
and, to the extent any terms of this Section 11 are inconsistent with any
express terms of such agreement, this Section 11 shall not be deemed to modify
or amend such terms. 

11.4. 
   Committee
Discretion  .     The Committee may, in
its sole discretion, waive in whole or in part the Company s right to forfeiture
under this Section 11, but no such waiver shall be effective unless evidenced by
a writing signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company.  In
addition, the Committee may impose additional conditions on Awards, by inclusion
of appropriate provisions in the Award Document.  Nothing contained
herein shall require the Committee to enforce the forfeiture provisions of this
Section 11.  Failure to enforce these forfeiture provisions against
any individual shall not be construed as a waiver of the Company s right to
forfeiture under this Section 11. 

11.5. 
   Clawback
Provision  .   Notwithstanding
any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including Section 16.1 which
prohibits material- and adverse changes to any outstanding Award, any
Participant who is an officer of the Company whose negligent, intentional or
gross misconduct contributes to the Company s having to restate all or a portion
of its financial statements, will be required to forfeit Awards granted under
this Plan and repay the Company the total amount of Award Gain realized by the
Participant upon the exercise of an Option or settlement of an Award, as
determined by the Board of Directors, an authorized committee, or its designee,
pursuant to the Caterpillar Inc. Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, as
adopted on February 14, 2007 and any subsequent amendments.  Any
Awards granted under this Plan prior to February 14, 2007 are subject to the
provisions of this Section 11.5 only with the written consent of the
Participant. 

Section 12.          

      Beneficiary
Designation 

12.1. 
   Beneficiary
Designations .  Each Participant under the Plan may, from time
to time, name any beneficiary or beneficiaries (who may be named contingently or
successively) to whom any benefit under the Plan is to be paid in case of his or
her death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit.  Each
such designation shall revoke all prior designations by the same Participant,
shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when
filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant s
lifetime.  In the absence of any such designation, benefits remaining
unpaid at the Participant s death shall be paid to the Participant s
estate. 

Section
13.                       

      Deferrals 

13.1. 
   Deferrals .  The
Committee may permit a Participant to defer such Participant s receipt of the
payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such
Participant upon the exercise of any Option or by virtue of the lapse or waiver
of restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock, or the satisfaction of any
requirements or goals with respect to Performance Units/Shares.  If
any such deferral election is required or permitted, the Committee shall, in its
sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment
deferrals.  All such deferrals (and rules and procedures) shall be
consistent with Code Section 409A and any other applicable law. 

Page
17 

Section
14.                       

      Rights
and Obligations of Parties 

14.1. 
   No
Guarantee of Employment or Service Rights  .     Nothing in the Plan
shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate
any Participant s employment at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any
right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Subsidiary. 

14.2. 
   Temporary
Absence  .   For
purposes of the Plan, temporary absence from employment because of illness,
vacation, approved leaves of absence, and transfers of employment among the
Company and its Subsidiaries, shall not be considered to terminate employment or
to interrupt continuous employment. 

14.3. 
   Participation  .    No Employee or Director
shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under the Plan, or,
having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award. 

14.4. 
   Right
of Setoff  .     The Company or any
Subsidiary may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, deduct from and set
off against any amounts the Company or Subsidiary may owe to the Participant
from time to time, including amounts payable in connection with any Award, owed
as wages, fringe benefits, or other compensation owed to the Participant, such
amounts as may be owed by the Participant to the Company, although the
Participant shall remain liable for any part of the Participant s payment
obligation not satisfied through such deduction and setoff.  By
accepting any Award granted hereunder, the Participant agrees to any deduction
or setoff under this Section 14. 

14.5. 
   Section
83(b) Election  .     No   election under Section
83(b) of the Code (to include in gross income in the year of transfer the
amounts specified in Code Section 83(b)) or under a similar provision of the
laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States may be made, unless expressly
permitted by the terms of the Award Document or by action of the Committee in
writing before the making of such election.  In any case in which a
Participant is permitted to make such an election in connection with an Award,
the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within ten days of
filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service or other
governmental authority, in addition to any filing and notification required
pursuant to regulations issued under Code Section 83(b) or other applicable
provision. 

14.6. 
   Disqualifying
Disposition Notification  .     If any Participant
shall make any disposition of Shares delivered pursuant to the exercise of an
Incentive Stock Option under the circumstances described in Code Section 421(b)
(relating to certain disqualifying dispositions), such Participant shall notify
the Company of such disposition within ten days thereof. 

Section
15.                       

      Change
of Control 

15.1. 
   Change
of Control .  If a Participant s employment or service with the
Company and/or any Subsidiary terminates either without Cause or for Good Reason
within the 12 month period following a Change of Control, unless otherwise
specifically prohibited under applicable laws, or by the rules and regulations
of any governing governmental agencies or national securities
exchanges: 

(a)     Any and all Options
and SARs granted hereunder shall become immediately exercisable, and shall
remain exercisable throughout their entire term; 

(b)     Any Period of
Restriction and other restrictions imposed on Restricted Stock shall lapse;
and 

Page
18 

(c)     Unless otherwise
specified in an Award Document, the maximum payout opportunities attainable
under all outstanding Awards of Performance Units and Performance Shares shall
be deemed to have been fully earned for the entire Performance Period(s) as of
the effective date of the Change of Control.  The vesting of all such
Awards shall be accelerated as of the effective date of the Change of Control,
and in full settlement of such Awards, there shall be paid out in cash to
Participants within 30 days following the effective date of the Change of
Control the maximum of payout opportunities associated with such outstanding
Awards. 

Section
16.                       

      Amendment,
Modification, and Termination 

16.1. 
   Amendment,
Modification, and Termination  .     The Board may amend,
suspend or terminate the Plan or the Committee s authority to grant Awards under
the Plan without the consent of stockholders or Participants; provided, however,
that any amendment to the Plan shall be submitted to the Company s stockholders
for approval not later than the earliest annual meeting for which the record
date is after the date of such Board action if such stockholder approval is
required by any federal or state law or regulation or the rules of any stock
exchange or automated quotation system on which the Shares may then be listed or
quoted and the Board may otherwise, in its sole discretion, determine to submit
other amendments to the Plan to stockholders for approval; and provided further,
that, without the written consent of an affected Participant, no such Board
action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under
any outstanding Award.  The Committee shall have no authority to waive
or modify any other Award term after the Award has been granted to the extent
that the waived or modified term was mandatory under the Plan. 

Section
17.                       

      Withholding 

17.1. 
   Tax
Withholding  .     The Company shall have
the power and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit
to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy Federal, state, and local taxes,
domestic or foreign, required by law or regulation to be withheld with respect
to any taxable event arising as a result of the Plan. 

17.2. 
   Share
Withholding  .     With respect to
withholding required upon the exercise of Options or SARs, upon the lapse of
restrictions on Restricted Stock, or upon any other taxable event arising as a
result of Awards granted hereunder, the withholding requirement shall be
satisfied by the Company withholding Shares having a Fair Market Value on the
date the tax is to be determined equal to the minimum statutory total tax which
would be imposed on the transaction. 

Section
18.                       

      Miscellaneous 

18.1. 
   Unfunded
Plan  .     The Plan is intended to
constitute an  unfunded  plan for incentive and deferred
compensation.  With respect to any payments not yet made to a
Participant or obligation to deliver Shares pursuant to an Award, nothing
contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Participant any rights
that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company; provided that
the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts and deposit therein cash,
Shares, other Awards or other property, or make other arrangements to meet the
Company s obligations under the Plan.  Such trusts or other
arrangements shall be consistent with the  unfunded  status of the Plan unless
the Committee otherwise determines with the consent of each affected
Participant.  No such funding shall be established that would cause an
amount to be taxable under Code Section 409A before it is received by a
Participant or cause an amount to be subject to additional tax under such
Section. 

Page
19 

18.2. 
   Forfeitures;
Fractional Shares  .   Unless otherwise
determined by the Committee, in the event of a forfeiture of an Award with
respect to which a Participant paid cash consideration, the Participant shall be
repaid the amount of such cash consideration.  No fractional Shares
shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award.  The
Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards or other property shall be
issued or paid in lieu of such fractional Shares or whether such fractional
Shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise
eliminated. 

18.3. 
   Compliance
with Code Section 162(m)  .     The Company intends
that Options and SARs granted to Named Executive Officers and other Awards
designated as Awards to Named Executive Officers shall constitute qualified
 performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and
regulations thereunder, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time
of allocation of an Award.  Accordingly, the terms of Sections 4.2, 6,
7, 8.5, 8.6, 9 and 10, including the definitions of Named Executive Officer and
other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code
Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder.  The foregoing
notwithstanding, because the Committee cannot determine with certainty whether a
given Participant will be a Named Executive Officer with respect to a fiscal
year that has not yet been completed, the Committee may, in its discretion,
extend the terms of such Sections to any Participant that the Committee deems
appropriate.  If any provision of the Plan or any Award Document
relating to a Performance Award that is designated as intended to comply with
Code Section 162(m) does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of
Code Section 162(m) or regulations thereunder, such provision shall be construed
or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements, and
no provision shall be deemed to confer upon the Committee or any other person
sole discretion to increase the amount of compensation otherwise payable in
connection with any such Award upon attainment of the applicable performance
objectives. 

18.4. 
   Gender
and Number; Headings  .     Except where otherwise
indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the
feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include
the plural.  Headings are included for the convenience of reference
only and shall not be used in the interpretation or construction of any such
provision contained in the Plan. 

18.5. 
   Severability  .     In the event any
provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the
illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and
the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision
had not been included. 

18.6. 
   Successors .  All
obligations of the Company under the Plan with respect to Awards granted
hereunder shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the
existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect merger,
consolidation, purchase of all or substantially all of the business and/or
assets of the Company or otherwise. 

18.7. 
   Requirements
of Law  .     The granting of Awards
and the issuance of Shares under the Plan shall be subject to all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, and to such approvals by any governmental agencies
or national securities exchanges as may be required. 

Page
20 

18.8. 
   Securities
Law Compliance  .    With respect to
 insiders,  transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with all
applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors under the Exchange
Act.  To the extent any provision of the Plan or action by the
Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent
permitted by law and deemed advisable by the Committee.  An  insider 
includes any individual who is, on the relevant date, an officer, Director or
more than 10% beneficial owner of any class of the Company s equity securities
that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, all as defined
under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 

18.9. 
   Governing
Law  .    To the extent not
preempted by Federal law, the Plan, and all agreements hereunder, shall be
construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Illinois
without regard to the conflict of law provisions thereof. 

Section
19.  Effective Date 

This Plan
Restatement shall be effective January 1, 2008. 

Page 21 

</EX-10.2>

<EX-11>
 4
 ex_11.htm
 COMPUTATIONS OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

ex_11.htm 

</EX-11>

<EX-12>
 5
 ex_12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

ex_12.htm 

(1) 

Pretax
      income from continuing operations before adjustment for minority interests
      and equity investments' profit  

(2) 

Considered
      to be representative of interest factor in rental
      expense  

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 6
 ex_13.htm
 GENERAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR 2007

ex_13.htm 

EXHIBIT
13 

CATERPILLAR INC. 

          GENERAL
AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 

          2007 

A-1   

TABLE
      OF CONTENTS 

Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
      Reporting  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm  

Consolidated Financial Statements  and  Notes  

Five-year Financial Summary   

Management's Discussion and Analysis
      (MD A)  

Overview   

2007 Compared with 2006  

Fourth Quarter 2007 Compared with Fourth Quarter
      2006  

2006 Compared with 2005  

Glossary of Terms   

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Critical Accounting Policies  

Employment   

Other Matters   

Supplemental Consolidating Data   

Outlook   

Supplemental Stockholder
    Information  

Directors and
Officers  

A-2   

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT  ON 

                    INTERNAL
      CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING  

The management of
Caterpillar Inc. (company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements. 

Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent
or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Management assessed
the effectiveness of the company's internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2007. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set
forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO) in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework . Based on our assessment we concluded that,
as of December 31, 2007, the company's internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria. 

The effectiveness
of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm. Their report appears on
page A-4. 

/s/
      James W. Owens    

James W.
      Owens 

                      Chairman of
      the Board 

                      and Chief
      Executive Officer 

/s/
      David B. Burritt    

David B.
      Burritt 

                      Vice
      President and  Chief Financial Officer 

February 21,
      2008 

A-3   

REPORT  OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  

To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Caterpillar Inc.: 

In our opinion, the accompanying
consolidated statement of financial position and the related statements of
consolidated results of operations, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash
flow, including pages A-5 through A-39, present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial
statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting appearing on page A-3.  Our responsibility is to express
opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control
over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

As discussed in Note 1L to the
consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it
accounts for uncertainty in income taxes in 2007.  As discussed in
Note 1N and 1L, respectively, the Company changed the manner in which it
accounts for stock-based compensation in 2006 and the manner in which it
accounts for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, effective
December 31, 2006.  

A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

           PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 

          Peoria,
Illinois 

          February 21,
2008 

A-4   

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
  STATEMENTS  

STATEMENT
      1  

Caterpillar
      Inc.  

Consolidated
      Results of Operations for the Years Ended
      December 31  

                       (Dollars
      in millions except per share
data)  

1  

Diluted by
      assumed exercise of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury
      stock method. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

A-5   

STATEMENT
      2  

Caterpillar
      Inc.  

Consolidated
      Financial Position at December 31  

                       (Dollars
      in millions)  

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
      Statements.  

A-6   

(Continued)  

A-7   

STATEMENT
      3 

Caterpillar
      Inc. 

Changes
      in Consolidated Stockholders  Equity for the Years Ended December
      31  (Continued) 

(Dollars in
      millions) 

1  

Pension and
      other postretirement benefits includes net adjustments for unconsolidated
      companies of $(9) million, $(6) million and $11 million, and the ending
      balances of $(52) million,  $(43) million and $(37) million for
      the years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

A-8   

STATEMENT
      4  

Caterpillar
      Inc.  

Consolidated
      Statement of Cash Flow for the Years Ended December 31 

                            (Millions of
      dollars) 

All
      short-term investments, which consist primarily of highly liquid
      investments with original maturities of three months or less, are
      considered to be cash equivalents. 

Non-cash
      activities: 

On June 19,
      2006, Caterpillar acquired 100 percent of the equity in Progress Rail
      Services, Inc.  A portion of the acquisition was financed with
      5.3 million shares of Caterpillar stock with a fair value of $379 million
      as of the acquisition date.  See Note 25 for further
      discussion. 

In 2005, $116 million of 9.375%
      debentures due in 2021 and $117 million of 8.00% debentures due in 2023
      were exchanged for $307 million of 5.30% debentures due in 2035 and $23
      million of cash. The $23 million of cash is included in payments on
      debt.   

See
      accompanying notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements. 

A-9   

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
  STATEMENTS  

1. 

Operations
      and summary of significant accounting
policies 

A. 

Nature
      of Operations 

We operate in
      three principal lines of business: 

(1) 

Machinery   A principal
      line of business which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and
      sales of construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel
      tractors, track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products, skid steer loaders and related parts. Also includes
      logistics services for other companies and the design, manufacture,
      remanufacture, maintenance and services of rail-related
      products. 

(2) 

Engines     A
      principal line of business including the design, manufacture, marketing
      and sales of engines for Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation
      systems; on-highway vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum,
      construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications; and related
      parts.  Also includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and
      a variety of Caterpillar machine and engine components and remanufacturing
      services for other companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power
      needs ranging from 5 to 21,500 horsepower (4 to over 16 000
      kilowatts).  Turbines range from 1,600 to 20,500 horsepower (1
      200 to 15 000 kilowatts). 

(3) 

Financial Products   A
      principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc.
      (Cat Insurance), Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation (Cat Power
      Ventures) and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat Financial
      provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and dealers
      for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well as other
      equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also extends loans
      to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides various forms
      of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and
      lease of our equipment.  Cat Power Ventures is an investor in
      independent power projects using Caterpillar power generation equipment
      and services. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations are highly integrated. Throughout the Notes,
      Machinery and Engines represents the aggregate total of these principal
      lines of business. 

Our products
      are sold primarily under the brands "Caterpillar," "Cat," "Solar
      Turbines," "MaK," "Perkins," "FG Wilson" and "Olympian." 

We conduct
      operations in our Machinery and Engines lines of business under highly
      competitive conditions, including intense price competition. We place
      great emphasis on the high quality and performance of our products and our
      dealers' service support. Although no one competitor is believed to
      produce all of the same types of machines and engines that we do, there
      are numerous companies, large and small, which compete with us in the sale
      of each of our products. 

Machines are
      distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers
      (dealer network), 53 located in the United States and 128 located outside
      the United States. Worldwide, these dealers serve 182 countries and
      operate 3,645 places of business, including 1,606 dealer rental outlets.
      Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and
      to other manufacturers for use in products manufactured by them. Some of
      the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins are also sold through a
      worldwide network of 132 distributors located in 181 countries along with
      3,500 supporting dealers. The FG Wilson branded electric power generation
      systems are sold through a worldwide network of 200 dealers located in 180
      countries. Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however,
      in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers'
      principal business. Turbines and large medium speed reciprocating engines
      are sold through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these
      employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

Manufacturing
      activities of the Machinery and Engines lines of business are conducted in
      95 plants in the United States; 12 in the United Kingdom; nine in Italy;
      eight in Mexico; seven in China; five in France; four in Canada; three
      each in Australia, Brazil, India, The Netherlands, Northern Ireland and
      Poland; two each in Germany, Indonesia and Japan; and one each in Belgium,
      Hungary, Malaysia, Nigeria, Russia, Scotland, South Africa, Switzerland
      and Tunisia. Thirteen parts distribution centers are located in the United
      States and 14 are located outside the United States. 

The Financial
      Products line of business also conducts operations under highly
      competitive conditions. Financing for users of Caterpillar products is
      available through a variety of competitive sources, principally commercial
      banks and finance and leasing companies. We emphasize prompt and
      responsive service to meet customer requirements and offer various
      financing plans designed to increase the opportunity for sales of our
      products and generate financing income for our company. Financial Products
      activity is conducted primarily in the United States, with additional
      offices in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and Latin America. 

B. 

Basis
      of consolidation 

The financial
      statements include the accounts of Caterpillar Inc. and its
      subsidiaries. Investments in companies that are owned 20% to 50% or are
      less than 20% owned and for which we have significant influence are
      accounted for by the equity method (see Note 11). We consolidate all
      variable interest entities where Caterpillar Inc. is the primary
      beneficiary. 

Certain
      amounts for prior years have been reclassified to conform with the
      current-year financial statement presentation. 

Shipping and
      handling costs are included in Cost of goods sold in Statement
      1.  Other operating expense primarily includes Cat Financial's
      depreciation of equipment leased to others, Cat Insurance s underwriting
      expenses, gains (losses) on disposal of long-lived assets and long-lived
      asset impairment charges. 

Prepaid
      expenses and other current assets in Statement 2 include prepaid rent,
      prepaid insurance and other prepaid items.  In addition, at
      December 31, 2006, this line included a security deposit of $249 million
      related to a deposit obligation due in 2007 (see Note 16 for further
      discussion).  At December 31, 2005 prepaid expenses related to
      our pension plans of $1.95 billion were also included in this
      line.  No such prepaid pension asset existed at December 31,
      2007 or 2006 as a result of our adoption of SFAS 158, "Employers'
      Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans."
      See Notes 1L and 14 for further
discussion. 

A-10   

C. 

Sales
      and revenue recognition 

Sales of
      Machinery and Engines are generally recognized when title transfers and
      the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to customers or
      independently owned and operated dealers.  Typically, where
      product is produced and sold in the same country, title and risk of
      ownership transfer when the product is shipped.  Products that
      are exported from a country for sale typically pass title and risk of
      ownership at the border of the destination country. 

No right of
      return exists on sales of equipment.  Replacement part returns
      are estimable and accrued at the time a sale is recognized. 

We provide
      discounts to dealers and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) through
      merchandising programs that are administered by our marketing profit
      centers.  We have numerous programs that are designed to promote
      the sale of our products.  The most common dealer programs
      provide a discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted end
      user.  OEM programs provide discounts designed to encourage the
      use of our engines. The cost of these discounts is estimated based on
      historical experience and known changes in merchandising programs and is
      reported as a reduction to sales when the product sale is
      recognized.    

Our standard
      invoice terms are established by marketing region. When a sale is made to
      a dealer, the dealer is responsible for payment even if the product is not
      sold to an end customer and must make payment within the standard terms to
      avoid interest costs. Interest at or above prevailing market rates is
      charged on any past due balance. Our policy is to not forgive this
      interest. In 2007, 2006 and 2005 terms were extended to not more than one
      year for $219 million,  $49 million  and
      $287 million of receivables, respectively. For 2007, 2006 and 2005,
      these amounts represent less than 1% of consolidated sales. 

Sales with
      payment terms of two months or more were as
  follows: 

We establish
      a bad debt allowance for Machinery and Engines receivables when it becomes
      probable that the receivable will not be collected. Our allowance for bad
      debts is not significant.  In 2006, we wrote off approximately
      $70 million of receivables in conjunction with settlement of various legal
      disputes with Navistar International Corporation.  No
      significant write-offs of Machinery and Engines receivables were made
      during 2007 or
2005. 

Revenues of
      Financial Products primarily represent the following Cat Financial
      revenues: 

Retail
      (end-customer) finance revenue on finance leases and installment sale
      contracts is recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate
      of return on the scheduled outstanding principal
      balance.  Revenue on retail notes is recognized based on the
      daily balance of retail receivables outstanding and the applicable
      effective interest rate. 

Operating lease revenue is recorded on a
      straight-line basis in the period earned over the life of the
      contract.  

Wholesale
      (dealer) finance revenue on installment contracts and finance leases is
      recognized over the term of the contract at a constant rate of return on
      the scheduled outstanding principal balance.  Revenue on
      wholesale notes is recognized based on the daily balance of wholesale
      receivables outstanding and the applicable effective interest
      rate. 

Loan
      origination and commitment fees are deferred and then amortized to revenue
      using the interest method over the life of the finance
      receivables. 

Recognition
      of income is suspended when collection of future income is not probable.
      Accrual is resumed, and previously suspended income is recognized, when
      the receivable becomes contractually current and/or collection doubts are
      removed. Cat Financial provides wholesale inventory financing to dealers.
      See Notes 7 and 8 for more information. 

Sales and
      revenue recognition items are presented net of sales and other related
      taxes. 

D. 

Inventories 

Inventories
      are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is principally determined
      using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. The value of inventories on
      the LIFO basis represented about 75% of total inventories at
      December 31, 2007 and 2006, and about 80% of total inventories at
      December 31, 2005. 

If the FIFO
      (first-in, first-out) method had been in use, inventories would have been
      $2,617 million, $2,403 million and $2,345 million higher than
      reported at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
      respectively. 

E. 

Securitized
      receivables 

We
      periodically sell finance receivables in securitization transactions. When
      finance receivables are securitized, we retain interests in the
      receivables in the form of interest-only strips, servicing rights, cash
      reserve accounts and subordinated certificates. The retained interests are
      recorded in  Other assets  at fair value. We estimate fair value based on
      the present value of future expected cash flows using key assumptions for
      credit losses, prepayment speeds and discount rates. See Note 8 for
      more information. 

F. 

Depreciation
      and amortization 

Depreciation
      of plant and equipment is computed principally using accelerated methods.
      Depreciation on equipment leased to others, primarily for Financial
      Products, is computed using the straight-line method over the term of the
      lease. The depreciable basis is the original cost of the equipment less
      the estimated residual value of the equipment at the end of the lease
      term. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, Cat Financial depreciation on equipment
      leased to others was $671 million, $631 million and
      $615 million, respectively, and was included in "Other operating
      expenses" in Statement 1. In 2007, 2006 and 2005 consolidated depreciation
      expense was $1,725 million, $1,554 million and $1,444 million,
      respectively. Amortization of purchased intangibles is computed
      principally using the straight-line method, generally not to exceed a
      period of 20 years.  

A-11   

G. 

Foreign
      currency translation 

The
      functional currency for most of our Machinery and Engines consolidated
      companies is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for most of our
      Financial Products and equity basis companies is the respective local
      currency. Gains and losses resulting from the translation of foreign
      currency amounts to the functional currency are included in "Other income
      (expense)" in Statement 1. Gains and losses resulting from translating
      assets and liabilities from the functional currency to U.S. dollars are
      included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income" in Statement
      2. 

H. 

Derivative
      financial instruments 

Our earnings
      and cash flow are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign
      currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity
      prices.  In addition, the amount of Caterpillar stock that can
      be repurchased under our stock repurchase program is impacted by movements
      in the price of the stock.  Our Risk Management Policy (policy)
      allows for the use of derivative financial instruments to prudently manage
      foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate, commodity price and
      Caterpillar stock price exposures.  Our policy specifies that
      derivatives are not to be used for speculative
      purposes.  Derivatives that we use are primarily foreign
      currency forward and option contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity
      forward and option contracts.  Our derivative activities are
      subject to the management, direction and control of our senior financial
      officers.  Risk management practices, including the use of
      financial derivative instruments, are presented to the Audit Committee of
      the Board of Directors at least annually. 

Payments for
      stock repurchase derivatives are accounted for as a reduction in
      stockholders  equity. All other derivatives are recognized on the
      Consolidated Financial Position at their fair value. On the date the
      derivative contract is entered, we designate the derivative as (1) a
      hedge of the fair value of a recognized liability ("fair value" hedge),
      (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash
      flow to be paid ("cash flow" hedge), or (3) an "undesignated"
      instrument. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is qualified,
      designated and highly effective as a fair value hedge, along with the gain
      or loss on the hedged liability that is attributable to the hedged risk,
      are recorded in current earnings. Changes in the fair value of a
      derivative that is qualified, designated and highly effective as a cash
      flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income until earnings are
      affected by the forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flow and
      are then reported in current earnings. Changes in the fair value of
      undesignated derivative instruments and the ineffective portion of
      designated derivative instruments are reported in current earnings. Cash
      flows from designated derivative financial instruments are classified
      within the same category as the item being hedged on the Consolidated
      Statement of Cash Flow.  Cash flows from undesignated derivative
      financial instruments are included in the investing category on the
      Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow. 

We formally
      document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items,
      as well as the risk-management objective and strategy for undertaking
      various hedge transactions.  This process includes linking all
      derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges to specific
      liabilities on the Consolidated Financial Position and linking cash flow
      hedges to specific forecasted transactions or variability of cash
      flow. 

We also
      formally assess, both at the hedge's inception and on an ongoing basis,
      whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly
      effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flow of hedged
      items. When it is determined that a derivative is not highly effective as
      a hedge or that it has ceased to be a highly effective hedge, we
      discontinue hedge accounting prospectively, in accordance with Statement
      of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 (SFAS 133), "Accounting for
      Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."  See Note 3
      for more information. 

I. 

Impairment
      of available-for-sale securities 

Available-for-sale
      securities are reviewed monthly to identify market values below cost of
      20% or more. If a decline for a debt security is in excess of 20% for six
      months, the investment is evaluated to determine if the decline is due to
      general declines in the marketplace or if the investment has been impaired
      and should be written down to market value pursuant to Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 (SFAS 115), "Accounting
      for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."  After
      the six-month period, debt securities with declines from cost in excess of
      20% are evaluated monthly for impairment. For equity securities, if a
      decline from cost of 20% or more continues for a 12-month period, an other
      than temporary impairment is recognized without continued
      analysis. 

J. 

Income
      taxes 

The provision
      for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach for
      accounting for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS 109), "Accounting for Income
      Taxes."  Tax laws require items to be included in tax filings at
      different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements.
      A current liability is recognized for the estimated taxes payable for the
      current year. Deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences
      expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are
      recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are adjusted for enacted changes in tax
      rates and tax laws. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred
      tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be
      realized. 

K. 

Estimates
      in financial statements 

The
      preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
      management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts.
      The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased assets,
      fair market values for goodwill impairment tests, warranty liability,
      stock-based compensation and reserves for product liability and insurance
      losses, postemployment benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and
      income taxes. 

L. 

New
      accounting standards 

SFAS 155    In February
      2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 155
      (SFAS 155),  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments   an
      amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140.   SFAS 155 allows
      financial instruments that have embedded derivatives to be accounted for
      as a whole, eliminating the need to separate the derivative from its host,
      if the holder elects to account for the whole instrument on a fair value
      basis.  This new accounting standard was effective January 1,
      2007.  The adoption of SFAS 155 did not have a material impact
      on our financial statements. 

A-12  

SFAS 156    In March
      2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 156
      (SFAS 156),  Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets   an amendment
      of FASB Statement No. 140.   SFAS 156 requires that all
      separately recognized servicing rights be initially measured at fair
      value, if practicable.  In addition, this Statement permits an
      entity to choose between two measurement methods (amortization method or
      fair value measurement method) for each class of separately recognized
      servicing assets and liabilities.  This new accounting standard
      was effective January 1, 2007.  The adoption of SFAS 156 did not
      have a material impact on our financial statements. 

FIN 48    In July 2006,
      the FASB issued FIN 48   Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
      Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  to create a single
      model to address accounting for uncertainty in tax positions. FIN 48
      clarifies that a tax position must be more likely than not of being
      sustained before being recognized in the financial statements. As
      required, we adopted the provisions of FIN 48 as of January 1,
      2007.  The following table summarizes the effect of the initial
      adoption of FIN 48. See Note 5 for additional
  information. 

SFAS 157    In September
      2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157
      (SFAS 157),  Fair Value Measurements.  SFAS 157 provides a common
      definition of fair value and a framework for measuring assets and
      liabilities at fair values when a particular standard prescribes it. In
      addition, the Statement expands disclosures about fair value measurements.
      In February 2008, the FASB issued final Staff Positions that will (1)
      defer the effective date of this Statement for one year for certain
      nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities and (2) remove certain
      leasing transactions from the scope of the Statement.  We will
      apply this new accounting standard to all other fair value measurements
      effective January 1, 2008. We do not expect the adoption to have a
      material impact on our financial statements. 

SFAS 158    In September
      2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158
      (SFAS 158),  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
      Postretirement Plans   an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
      132(R).   SFAS 158 requires recognition of the overfunded or
      underfunded status of pension and other postretirement benefit plans on
      the balance sheet.  Under SFAS 158, gains and losses, prior
      service costs and credits and any remaining transition amounts under SFAS
      87 and SFAS 106 that have not yet been recognized through net periodic
      benefit cost are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income
      (loss), net of tax effects, until they are amortized as a component of net
      periodic benefit cost. Also, the measurement date   the date at which the
      benefit obligation and plan assets are measured   is required to be the
      company s fiscal year-end. 

As required
      by SFAS 158, we adopted the balance sheet recognition provisions at
      December 31, 2006, and will adopt the year-end measurement date in
      2008.  We do not expect the adoption of the year-end measurement
      date will have a material impact on our financial statements. SFAS 87
      required the recognition of an additional minimum liability (AML) if the
      market value of plan assets was less than the accumulated benefit
      obligation at the end of the measurement date.  The AML was
      eliminated upon the adoption of SFAS 158.  The following
      summarizes the effect of the required changes in the AML, as well as the
      impact of the initial adoption of SFAS 158, as of December 31, 2006. See
      Note 14 for additional information regarding postemployment
      benefits. 

SFAS 159    In February
      2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159
      (SFAS 159),  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets   Financial
      Liabilities   including an amendment of SFAS No. 115.  SFAS 159 will
      create a fair value option under which an entity may irrevocably elect
      fair value as the initial and subsequent measurement attribute for certain
      financial assets and liabilities on a contract by contract basis, with
      changes in fair values recognized in earnings as these changes occur. SFAS
      159 will become effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15,
      2007. We will adopt this new accounting standard on January 1,
      2008.  We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact
      on our financial statements. 

SFAS 141R    SFAS
      160     In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of
      Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (revised 2007) (SFAS 141R),
       Business Combinations,  and No. 160 (SFAS 160),  Noncontrolling Interests
      in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 . SFAS
      141R requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize
      the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Further, SFAS 141R also
      changes the accounting for acquired in-process research and development
      assets, contingent consideration, partial acquisitions and transaction
      costs.  Under SFAS 160, all entities are required to report
      noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries as equity in the
      consolidated financial statements. In addition, transactions between an
      entity and noncontrolling interests will be treated as equity
      transactions. SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 will become effective for fiscal
      years beginning after December 15, 2008. We will adopt these new
      accounting standards on January 1, 2009.  We are currently
      reviewing the impact of SFAS 141R and SFAS 160 on our financial statements
      and expect to complete this evaluation in
2008. 

A-13   

M. 

Goodwill 

Goodwill
      represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of
      the net assets acquired.  We account for goodwill in accordance
      with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 "Goodwill and
      Other Intangible Assets," which requires that we test goodwill for
      impairment annually and when events or circumstances indicate the fair
      value of a reporting unit may be below its carrying value.  We
      perform our annual goodwill impairment testing in
      September.  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing a
      two-step process.  The first step requires us to identify the
      reporting units and compare the fair value of each reporting unit, which
      we compute using a discounted cash flow analysis, to the respective
      carrying value, which includes goodwill.  If the carrying value
      is higher than the fair value, there is an indication that an impairment
      may exist.  In step two, the implied fair value of goodwill is
      calculated as the excess of the fair value of a reporting unit over the
      fair values assigned to its assets and liabilities.  If the
      implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of the
      reporting unit s goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment
      loss. 

N. 

Stock-based
      compensation 

On January 1,
      2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
      (revised 2004) (SFAS 123R),  Share-Based Payment  using the modified
      prospective transition method. SFAS 123R requires all stock based payments
      to be recognized in the financial statements based on the grant date fair
      value of the award.  Under the modified prospective transition
      method, we are required to record stock-based compensation expense for all
      awards granted after the date of adoption and for the unvested portion of
      previously granted awards outstanding as of the date of adoption. In
      accordance with the modified prospective transition method, our
      Consolidated Financial Statements for prior periods have not been restated
      to reflect, and do not include, the impact of SFAS 123R.  See
      Note 2 for additional information regarding stock-based
      compensation. 

Prior to the
      adoption of SFAS 123R, we used the intrinsic value method of accounting
      for stock-based employee compensation in accordance with Accounting
      Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
      Employees." Under the intrinsic value method no compensation expense was
      recognized in association with our stock awards. The following table
      illustrates the effect on profit and profit per share if we had applied
      SFAS 123R for the 2005 grant using the lattice-based option-pricing
      model:  

2. 

Stock-based
      compensation 

Stock Incentive
      Plans  

In 1996,
      stockholders approved the Stock Option and Long-Term Incentive Plan (the
      1996 Plan), which expired in April of 2006.  The 1996 Plan
      reserved 144 million shares of common stock for issuance (128 million
      under this plan and 16 million under prior plans).  On June 14,
      2006, stockholders approved the 2006 Caterpillar Long-Term Incentive Plan
      (the 2006 Plan).  The 2006 non-employee Directors  grant was
      issued from this plan.  The 2006 Plan reserves 37.6 million
      shares for issuance (20 million under the 2006 Plan and 17.6 million
      transferred from the 1996 Plan).   The plans primarily
      provide for the granting of stock options, stock-settled stock
      appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock units (RSUs) to Officers
      and other key employees, as well as non-employee Directors. Stock options
      permit a holder to buy Caterpillar stock at the stock's price when the
      option was granted. SARs permit a holder the right to receive the value in
      shares of the appreciation in Caterpillar stock that occurred from the
      date the right was granted up to the date of exercise.  A
      restricted stock unit (RSU) is an agreement to issue shares of Caterpillar
      stock at the time of vesting. 

Our
      long-standing practices and policies specify all stock-based compensation
      awards are approved by the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the
      Board of Directors on the date of grant.  The stock-based award
      approval process specifies the number of awards granted, the terms of the
      award and the grant date.  The same terms and conditions are
      consistently applied to all employee grants, including Officers. The
      Committee approves all individual Officer grants.  The number of
      stock-based compensation awards  included in an individual s
      award is determined based on the methodology approved by the
      Committee.  Prior to 2007, the terms of the 1996 Stock Option
      and Long-Term Incentive Plan (which expired in April of 2006) provided for
      the exercise price methodology to be the average of the high and low price
      of our stock on the date of grant.  In 2007, under the terms of
      the Caterpillar Inc. 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (approved by
      stockholders in June of 2006), the Compensation Committee approved the
      exercise price methodology to be the closing price of the Company stock on
      the date of the grant. 

Common stock
      issued from Treasury stock under the plans totaled 11,710,958 for 2007,
      15,207,055 for 2006 and 18,912,521 for 2005. 

A-14   

In   order
      to better align our employee stock option program with the overall market,
      the number of options granted in 2005 was significantly reduced from the
      previous year.  In response to this decrease, we elected to
      immediately vest the 2005 grant.  In order to further align our
      stock award program with the overall market, we adjusted our 2006 grant by
      reducing the overall number of employee awards granted and utilizing a mix
      of SARs and option awards.  In 2007 to further align our stock
      award program with the overall market, we adjusted our 2007 grant by
      reducing the overall number of employee awards and utilizing RSUs in
      addition to the SARs and option awards.  RSUs were granted to
      3,300 employees with a 2007 compensation cost of $19 million. The 2007 and
      2006 awards generally vest three years after the date of
      grant.  At grant, SARs and option awards have a term life of ten
      years.  Upon separation from service, if the participant is 55
      years of age or older with more than ten years of service, the participant
      meets the criteria for a  Long Service Separation".  If the
       Long Service Separation  criteria are met, the vested options/SARs will
      have a life that is the lesser of 10 years from the original grant date or
      five years from the separation date. 

Our
      stock-based compensation plans allow for the immediate vesting upon
      separation for employees who meet the criteria for a  Long Service
      Separation  and who have fulfilled the requisite service period of six
      months.  Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123R, compensation
      expense for awards associated with these employees had been recognized in
      the pro forma net profit over the nominal vesting period.  With
      the adoption of SFAS 123R, compensation expense is now recognized over the
      period from the grant date to the end date of the requisite service period
      for employees who meet the immediate vesting upon retirement
      requirements.  For those employees who become eligible for
      immediate vesting upon retirement subsequent to the requisite service
      period and prior to the completion of the vesting period, compensation
      expense is recognized over the period from grant date to the date
      eligibility is achieved.  Application of the nominal vesting
      period for these employees for the year ended December 31, 2005 decreased
      pro forma profit by $13 million. 

SFAS 123R
      requires companies to estimate the fair value of options/SARs on the date
      of grant using an option-pricing model. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, the fair
      value of the option/SAR grant was estimated using a lattice-based
      option-pricing model.  The lattice-based option-pricing model
      considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest
      rate and historical employee behavior.  Expected volatility was
      based on historical and current implied volatilities from traded options
      on our stock. The risk-free rate was based on U.S. Treasury security
      yields at the time of grant.  The weighted-average dividend
      yield was based on historical information.  The expected life
      was determined from the lattice-based model. The lattice-based model
      incorporated exercise and post vesting forfeiture assumptions based on
      analysis of historical data. The following table provides the assumptions
      used in determining the fair value of the stock-based awards for the years
      ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
  respectively. 

The fair
      value of the RSU grant was determined by reducing the stock price on the
      day of grant by the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid
      during the vesting period.  The estimated dividends are based on
      Caterpillar s weighted-average dividend yield. 

The amount of
      stock-based compensation expense capitalized for the years ended December
      31, 2007 and 2006 did not have a significant impact on our financial
      statements.  Prior to our adoption of SFAS 123R, stock-based
      compensation was not capitalized in our pro forma disclosure. 

At December
      31, 2007, there was $121 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
      from stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the plans, which
      is related to non-vested stock-based awards.  The compensation
      expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of
      approximately 1.8 years. 

Please refer to Tables I and II
      below for additional information on our stock-based
      awards.  

The following
      table summarizes the effect of the adoption of SFAS
  123R: 

(Dollars
      in millions except per share data) 

2006 

Stock-based
      compensation expense, before tax 

$ 

137 

Stock-based
      compensation expense, after tax 

$ 

92 

Income tax
      benefit recognized in net income 

$ 

45 

Decrease in
      profit per share of common stock, basic 

$ 

.14 

Decrease in
      profit per share of common stock, diluted 

$ 

.09 

In 2007,
      before tax stock-based compensation expense was $146 million with a
      corresponding income tax benefit of $48 million. 

In accordance
      with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107  Share-based payment,  we classify
      stock-based compensation within cost of goods sold, selling, general and
      administrative expenses and research and development expenses
      corresponding to the same line item as the cash compensation paid to
      respective employees, officers and non-employee directors.  We
      do not allocate stock-based compensation to reportable
      segments. 

We currently
      use shares that have been repurchased through our stock repurchase program
      to satisfy share award
exercises. 

A-15   

TABLE I Financial
      Information Related to Stock-based Compensation  

The
      computations of weighted-average exercise prices and aggregate intrinsic
      values are not applicable to RSUs since an RSU is released to the employee
      on the date it vests.  At December 31, 2007, there were
      1,253,326 outstanding RSUs with a weighted average remaining contractual
      life of 2.2 years. 

TABLE
      II  Additional Stock-based Award
Information 

A-16   

In November
      2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 123R-3  Transition
      Election Related to Accounting for Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment
      Awards.   In the third quarter of 2006, we elected to adopt the
      alternative transition method provided in the FASB Staff Position for
      calculating the tax effects of stock-based compensation.  The
      alternative transition method includes simplified methods to determine the
      beginning balance of the additional paid-in capital (APIC) pool related to
      the tax effects of stock-based compensation, and to determine the
      subsequent impact on the APIC pool and the Statement of Cash Flow of the
      tax effects of stock-based awards that were fully vested and outstanding
      upon the adoption of SFAS 123R. 

The tax
      benefits realized from stock awards exercised for December 31, 2007, 2006
      and 2005 were $167 million, $170 million and $134 million, respectively.
      We use the direct only method and tax law ordering approach to calculate
      the tax effects of stock-based compensation.  In certain
      jurisdictions, tax deductions for exercises of stock-based awards did not
      generate a cash benefit.  A tax benefit of approximately $20
      million will be recorded in APIC when these deductions reduce our future
      income taxes payable. 

3. 

Derivative
      financial instruments and risk
management 

A. 

Foreign
      currency exchange rate risk 

Foreign
      currency exchange rate movements create a degree of risk by affecting the
      U.S. dollar value of sales made and costs incurred in foreign currencies.
      Movements in foreign currency rates also affect our competitive position
      as these changes may affect business practices and/or pricing strategies
      of non-U.S.-based competitors. Additionally, we have balance sheet
      positions denominated in foreign currency, thereby creating exposure to
      movements in exchange rates. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations purchase, manufacture and sell products in many
      locations around the world. As we have a diversified revenue and cost
      base, we manage our future foreign currency cash flow exposure on a net
      basis. We use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage
      unmatched foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to
      minimize the risk of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S.
      dollar value of our foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for
      managing anticipated foreign currency cash flow for up to five
      years. 

We generally
      designate as cash flow hedges at inception of the contract any Australian
      dollar, Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Chinese yuan,
      euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, Singapore dollar, New Zealand dollar or
      Swiss franc forward or option contracts that meet the requirements for
      hedge accounting. Designation is performed on a specific exposure basis to
      support hedge accounting. The remainder of Machinery and Engines foreign
      currency contracts are undesignated. We designate as fair value hedges
      specific euro forward contracts used to hedge firm
      commitments. 

As of
      December 31, 2007, $25 million of deferred net gains (net of tax)
      included in equity ( Accumulated other comprehensive income  in Statement
      2), are expected to be reclassified to current earnings ( Other income
      (expense)  in Statement 1) over the next twelve months when earnings are
      affected by the hedged transactions.  The actual amount recorded
      in  Other income (expense)  will vary based on exchange rates at the time
      the hedged transactions impact earnings. 

In managing
      foreign currency risk for our Financial Products operations, our objective
      is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the
      remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions. Our policy
      allows the use of foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset
      the risk of currency mismatch between our receivables and debt. All such
      foreign currency forward and option contracts are
      undesignated. 

Gains
      (losses) included in current earnings [Other income (expense)] on
      undesignated contracts: 

Gains and
      losses on the Financial Products contracts above are substantially offset
      by balance sheet translation gains and
losses. 

B. 

Interest
      rate risk 

Interest rate
      movements create a degree of risk by affecting the amount of our interest
      payments and the value of our fixed rate debt. Our practice is to use
      interest rate swap agreements to manage our exposure to interest rate
      changes and, in some cases, lower the cost of borrowed funds. 

Machinery and
      Engines operations generally use fixed rate debt as a source of
      funding.  Our objective is to minimize the cost of borrowed
      funds.  Our policy allows us to enter into fixed-to-floating
      interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to meet that objective
      with the intent to designate as fair value hedges at inception of the
      contract all fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. Designation as a hedge
      of the fair value of our fixed rate debt is performed to support hedge
      accounting.  During 2001, our Machinery and Engines operations
      liquidated all existing fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. The gain
      ($5 million at December 31, 2007) is being amortized to earnings ratably
      over the remaining life of the hedged debt.  Since 2006, we have
      entered into a total of $400 million of interest rate swaps designated as
      fair value hedges of our fixed rate long-term debt. 

Financial
      Products operations have a match funding policy that addresses interest
      rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate)
      of Cat Financial s debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of their
      receivables portfolio within predetermined ranges on an on-going basis. In
      connection with that policy, we use interest rate derivative instruments
      to modify the debt structure to match assets within the receivables
      portfolio. This match funding reduces the volatility of margins between
      interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, regardless of
      which direction interest rates move. 

Our policy
      allows us to use floating-to-fixed, fixed-to-floating and
      floating-to-floating interest rate swaps to meet the match funding
      objective. To support hedge accounting, we designate fixed-to-floating
      interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of the fair value of our fixed
      rate debt at the inception of the contract. Financial Products' practice
      is to designate most floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps as cash flow
      hedges of the variability of future cash flows at the inception of the
      swap contract. Designation as a hedge of the variability of cash flow is
      performed to support hedge accounting. 

A-17   

Financial
      Products liquidated fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps during 2006,
      2005 and 2004, which resulted in deferred net gains.  These
      gains ($5 million remaining at December 31, 2007) are being amortized to
      earnings ratably over the remaining life of the hedged debt. Financial
      Products liquidated floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps during 2007 that
      resulted in deferred net gains that are being amortized to earnings
      ratably over the remaining life of the hedged debt.  The
      unamortized balance of $1 million as of December 31, 2007 will be
      amortized into Interest expense over the next 12
  months. 

Gains
      (losses) included in current earnings [Other income
      (expense)]: 

As of
      December 31, 2007, $2 million of deferred net losses included in
      equity ("Accumulated other comprehensive income" in Statement 2),
      related to Financial Products floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, are
      expected to be reclassified to current earnings ("Interest expense of
      Financial Products" in Statement 1) over the next twelve
      months. 

C. 

Commodity
      price risk 

Commodity
      price movements create a degree of risk by affecting the price we must pay
      for certain raw material. Our policy is to use commodity forward and
      option contracts to manage the commodity risk and reduce the cost of
      purchased materials. 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations purchase aluminum, copper and nickel embedded in
      the components we purchase from suppliers. Our suppliers pass on to us
      price changes in the commodity portion of the component cost. In addition,
      we are also subject to price changes on natural gas purchased for
      operational use. 

Our objective
      is to minimize volatility in the price of these commodities. Our policy
      allows us to enter into commodity forward and option contracts to lock in
      the purchase price of a portion of these commodities within a four-year
      horizon. All such commodity forward and option contracts are undesignated.
      There were no net gains or losses on undesignated contracts for
      2007.  Gains on undesignated contracts of $1 million and
      $7 million were recorded in current earnings ("Other income
      (expense)" in Statement 1) in 2006 and 2005,
  respectively. 

D. 

Stock
      repurchase risk 

In February
      2007, the Board of Directors authorized a $7.5 billion stock repurchase
      program, expiring on December 31, 2011.  The amount of
      Caterpillar stock that can be repurchased under the authorization is
      impacted by movements in the price of the stock.  In August
      2007, the Board of Directors authorized the use of derivative contracts to
      reduce stock repurchase price volatility. 

In connection
      with our stock repurchase program, we entered into capped call
      transactions ( call ) with a major bank during the fourth quarter 2007 for
      3.5 million shares.  We paid the bank approximately $56 million
      upon the establishment of the calls, which was accounted for as a
      reduction to stockholders  equity.  A call permits us to reduce
      share repurchase price volatility by providing a floor and cap on the
      price at which the 3.5 million shares can be repurchased.  The
      floor, cap and strike prices for the calls were based upon the average
      purchase price paid by the bank to purchase our common stock to hedge
      these transactions.  Each call will mature and be exercisable
      within one year after the call was established.  If we exercise
      a call, we can elect to settle the transaction with the bank by physical
      settlement (paying cash and receiving shares), cash settlement (receiving
      a net amount of cash) or net share settlement (receiving a net amount of
      shares).  We will continue to use open market purchases in
      conjunction with the capped call transactions to repurchase our
      stock. 

No shares
      were repurchased pursuant to this capped call program as of December 31,
      2007. 

4. 

Other
      income (expense) 

5. 

Income
      taxes 

The
      components of profit before taxes
were: 

Profit before
      taxes, as shown above, is based on the location of the entity to which
      such earnings are attributable. However, since such earnings are subject
      to taxation in more than one country, the income tax provision shown below
      as U.S. or non-U.S. may not correspond to the earnings shown
      above. 

The
      components of the provision for income taxes
  were: 

A-18   

Reconciliation
      of the U.S. federal statutory rate to effective
  rate: 

The 2006 provision for income
      taxes includes a benefit of $5 million for net changes in tax reserves.
      Favorable settlement of a non-U.S. tax issue resulted in a $25 million
      decrease in reserves. This was partially offset by a $20 million increase
      in tax reserves for an expected IRS assessment, related to transfer
      pricing adjustments for tax years 1992 to 1994, which we plan to continue
      to dispute.   

The net
      impact of repatriation planning and favorable tax settlements resulted in
      a $31 million decrease to our 2005 provision for income taxes. We
      recognized a provision for income taxes of $33 million in 2005 under
      the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act allowing favorable tax
      treatment of repatriated earnings. We recognized a benefit of $38 million
      by reversing a deferred tax liability related to the undistributed profits
      of a few selected non-U.S. subsidiaries.  Favorable tax
      settlements primarily related to non-U.S. tax jurisdictions reduced the
      provision by $26 million.  

We have
      recorded income tax expense at U.S. tax rates on all profits, except for
      undistributed profits of non-U.S. subsidiaries of approximately $7 billion
      which are considered indefinitely reinvested.  Determination of
      the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to indefinitely
      reinvested profits is not feasible.  A deferred tax asset is
      recognized only if we have definite plans to generate a U.S. tax benefit
      by repatriating earnings in the foreseeable future.  It is
      reasonably possible that a change in assertion related to undistributed
      profits of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries will be made in the next year
      allowing a reversal of U.S. tax
accrued. 

Deferred
      income tax assets and
liabilities: 

SFAS 109
      requires that individual tax-paying entities of the company offset all
      current deferred tax liabilities and assets within each particular tax
      jurisdiction and present them as a single amount in the Consolidated
      Financial Position. A similar procedure is followed for all noncurrent
      deferred tax liabilities and assets. Amounts in different tax
      jurisdictions cannot be offset against each other. The amount of deferred
      income taxes at December 31, included on the following lines in
      Statement 2, are as
follows: 

At
      December 31, 2007, amounts and expiration dates of net operating loss
      carryforwards in various non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions
    were: 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

A valuation
      allowance has been recorded at certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that have not
      yet demonstrated consistent and/or sustainable profitability to support
      the recognition of net deferred tax assets. 

At
      December 31, 2007, approximately $390 million of state tax net
      operating losses (NOLs) and $97 million of state tax credit carryforwards
      were available. Of the NOLs, approximately two-thirds expire after 2017.
      The state tax credit carryforwards expire over the next ten years. We
      established a valuation allowance for those NOLs and credit carryforwards
      likely to expire prior to utilization. 

We adopted
      FIN 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  as of January 1,
      2007. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross
      unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including positions
      impacting only the timing of tax benefits, follows. The reduction for tax
      positions related to prior years primarily relates to tax positions for
      which there was uncertainty about the timing of tax
      benefits.  

Reconciliation of unrecognized
      tax benefits:      1      

(Millions
      of dollars) 

Balance at
      January 1, 2007 

$ 

742 

Additions for
      tax positions related to current year 

62 

Additions for
      tax positions related to prior years 

24 

Reductions for
      tax positions related to prior years 

(109 

) 

Reductions for
      settlements 

(7 

) 

Reductions for
      expiration of statute of limitations 

(9 

) 

Balance at
      December 31, 2007 

$ 

703 

1  

Foreign
      currency translation amounts are included within each line as
      applicable. 

A-19   

At adoption, the amount of
      unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective
      tax rate was $486 million.  The corresponding amount at December
      31, 2007 was $537 million.  

We classify interest and penalties
      on tax uncertainties as a component of the provision for income
      taxes.  During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company
      recognized approximately $36 million in interest and penalties. The total
      amount of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2007 was $98
      million.  

It is expected that the amount of
      unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next 12
      months.  However, we do not expect the change to have a
      significant impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial
      position.  

The Internal
      Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its field examination of our U.S. tax
      returns for 1992 to 2004.  For tax years 1992 to 1994, we expect
      to litigate the unagreed adjustments related to transfer
      pricing.   We anticipate the appeals process for tax years
      1995 to 1999, primarily related to foreign sales corporation commissions,
      foreign tax credit calculations and research and development credits, will
      be settled within the next 12 months. For tax years 2000 to 2004, we have
      entered the appeals process for unagreed adjustments primarily related to
      export tax benefits.   In the opinion of management, the
      ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse
      effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
      operations. 

In our major
      non-U.S. jurisdictions, tax years are typically subject to examination for
      three to six years. 

6. 

Sales
      and servicing of trade receivables 

Our Machinery
      and Engines operations generate trade receivables from the sale of
      inventory to dealers and customers. Certain of these receivables are sold
      to Cat Financial. 

Cat Financial
      has sold interests in a certain pool of trade receivables to third-party
      commercial paper conduits. In accordance with SFAS 140, the transfers
      to the conduits are accounted for as sales. Cat Financial services the
      sold trade receivables and receives an annual servicing fee of
      approximately 0.5% of the average outstanding principal balance.
      Consolidated expenses of $15 million, $15 million and $8 million
      related to the sale of trade receivables were recognized during 2007, 2006
      and 2005, respectively, and are included in "Other income (expense)" in
      Statement 1. As of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the outstanding
      principal balance of the sold trade receivables was $240
      million. 

The remaining
      interest in that pool of trade receivables as of December 31, 2007,
      2006 and 2005 of $1,233 million, $2,718 million and $3,028 million,
      respectively, is included in "Receivables trade and other" in Statement 2.
      The cash collections from these receivables held by Cat Financial,
      including those attributable to the third-party conduits, are first
      applied to satisfy any obligations of Cat Financial to the third-party
      conduits. The third-party conduits have no recourse to Cat Financial's
      assets, other than the remaining interest, for failure of debtors to pay
      when due. For Cat Financial's remaining interest in trade receivables, the
      carrying amount approximated fair value due to the short-term nature of
      these receivables. 

7. 

Wholesale
      inventory receivables 

Wholesale
      inventory receivables are receivables of Cat Financial that arise when Cat
      Financial provides financing for a dealer's purchase of inventory. These
      receivables are included in "Receivables trade and other" and "Long-term
      receivables trade and other" in Statement 2 and were $1,496 million,
      $1,215 million and $1,282 million at December 31, 2007,
      2006 and 2005, respectively. Please refer to Note 19 and
      Table IV for fair value
information. 

Contractual
      maturities of outstanding wholesale inventory receivables: 

8. 

Finance
      receivables 

Finance
      receivables are receivables of Cat Financial, which generally can be
      repaid or refinanced without penalty prior to contractual maturity. Total
      finance receivables reported in Statement 2 are net of an allowance
      for credit losses. 

During 2007,
      2006 and 2005, Cat Financial sold certain finance receivables related to
      retail installment sale contracts and finance leases to special purpose
      entities (SPEs) as part of their asset-backed securitization program. The
      SPEs, typically trusts, are considered to be qualifying special purpose
      entities (QSPEs) and thus, in accordance with SFAS 140, are not
      consolidated. The QSPEs issue debt to pay for the finance receivables they
      acquire from Cat Financial.  The primary source for repayment of
      the debt is the cash flows generated from the finance receivables owned by
      the QSPEs.  The assets of the QSPEs are legally isolated and are
      not available to pay the creditors of Cat Financial or any other affiliate
      of Cat Financial.  For bankruptcy analysis purposes, Cat
      Financial has sold the finance receivables to the QSPEs in a true sale and
      the QSPEs are separate legal entities. Cat Financial retained interests in
      the finance receivables that were sold through their asset-backed
      securitization program.  The company s retained interests are
      generally subordinate to the investors  interests and are included in
       Other assets  in Statement 2. For 2007, subordinated interests included
      subordinated certificates with an initial fair value of zero, an interest
      in certain future cash flow (excess) with an initial fair value of $2
      million and a reserve account with an initial fair value of $9 million.
      For 2006, subordinated interests included subordinated certificates with
      an initial fair value of $4 million, an interest in certain future
      cash flow (excess) with an initial fair value of $3 million and a
      reserve account with an initial fair value of $10 million. For 2005,
      subordinated interests included subordinated certificates with an initial
      fair value of $8 million, an interest in certain future cash flow
      (excess) with an initial fair value of $1 million and a reserve
      account with an initial fair value of $12 million. Net gains of $4
      million, $7 million and $12 million were recognized on these
      transactions in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

A-20   

Significant
      assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the retained interests and
      subordinated certificates at the time of the transaction
    were: 

These
      assumptions are based on our historical experience, market trends and
      anticipated performance relative to the particular assets
      securitized. 

The company
      receives annual servicing fees of approximately 1% of the unpaid note
      value. 

As of
      December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the subordinated retained interests
      in the public securitizations totaled $49 million, $68 million
      and  $72 million, respectively. Key assumptions used to
      determine the fair value of the retained interests
  were: 

The investors
      and the securitization trusts have no recourse to Cat Financial's other
      assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. 

We estimated
      the impact of individual 10% and 20% changes to the key economic
      assumptions used to determine the fair value of residual cash flow in
      retained interests on our income. An independent, adverse change to each
      key assumption had an immaterial impact on the fair value of residual cash
      flow. 

We consider
      an account past due if any portion of an installment is due and unpaid for
      more than 30 days. Recognition of income is suspended when management
      determines that collection of future income is not probable (generally
      after 120 days past due). Accrual is resumed, and previously
      suspended income is recognized, when the receivable becomes contractually
      current and/or collection doubts are removed. Cash receipts on impaired
      loans or finance leases are recorded against the receivable and then to
      any unrecognized income. Investment in loans/finance leases on nonaccrual
      status were $232 million, $190 million and $175 million and past
      due over 90 days and still accruing were $47 million, $18 million and
      $31 million as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
      respectively. 

Cat Financial
      provides financing only when acceptable criteria are met. Credit decisions
      are based on, among other things, the customer's credit history, financial
      strength and intended use of equipment. Cat Financial typically maintains
      a security interest in retail financed equipment and requires physical
      damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. 

Please refer
      to Table III for additional finance receivables information and
      Note 19 and Table IV for fair value
  information. 

In estimating
      the allowance for credit losses, we review accounts that are past due,
      non-performing or in bankruptcy. 

9. 

Inventories 

10. 

Property,
      plant and equipment 

We had
      commitments for the purchase or construction of capital assets of
      approximately $570 million at December 31, 2007. Software assets
      with a carrying value of $50 million, primarily related to our dealer
      distribution support system, were abandoned in 2005. The write-off of
      these assets is included in "Other operating expense" in
      Statement 1. 

1  

Included in
      Property, plant and equipment table above. 

2  

Consists
      primarily of machinery and equipment. 

At
      December 31, 2007, scheduled minimum rental payments to be received
      for equipment leased to others
were: 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

11. 

Investments
      in unconsolidated affiliated
companies 

Our
      investments in affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method
      consist primarily of a 50% interest in Shin Caterpillar
      Mitsubishi Ltd. (SCM) located in Japan. Combined financial
      information of the unconsolidated affiliated companies accounted for by
      the equity method (generally on a three-month lag, e.g., SCM results
      reflect the periods ending September 30) was as
    follows: 

A-21   

At
      December 31, 2007, consolidated "Profit employed in the business" in
      Statement 2 included $287 million representing undistributed profit
      of the unconsolidated affiliated companies. 

In 2007, we
      signed a nonbinding memorandum of understanding with Mitsubishi Heavy
      Industries Ltd. and SCM to conclude a plan that would result in
      Caterpillar becoming the majority shareholder of SCM.  The
      companies are in discussions with the intention of reaching definitive
      agreements that would include a new comprehensive joint venture agreement
      as well as certain definitive agreements for implementation of the
      plan.  These definitive agreements would be subject to
      applicable regulatory approvals and certain other
    conditions. 

A-22   

During 2007,
      we acquired finite-lived intangible assets of $89 million as part of the
      purchase of Franklin Power Products.  In 2007, we also acquired
      finite-lived intangible assets of $24 million due to the purchase of the
      Forestry Division of Blount International, Inc. During 2006 we acquired
      finite-lived intangible assets of $223 million due to the purchase of
      Progress Rail Services, Inc (Progress Rail).  See Note 25 for
      details on the acquisition of these assets.  Amortization
      expense related to intangible assets was $52 million, $34 million and $22
      million for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  In 2006, pension
      related intangible assets were eliminated due to the adoption of SFAS
      158.  For further discussion on SFAS 158, see Notes 1L and
      14. 

Amortization
      expense related to intangible assets is expected to
  be: 

B. 

Goodwill 

During 2007,
      we acquired assets with related goodwill of $37 million as part of the
      purchase of Franklin Power Products.  In 2007, we also acquired
      assets with related goodwill of $22 million as part of the purchase of the
      Forestry Division of Blount International, Inc. During 2006, we acquired
      assets with related goodwill of $431 million as part of the purchase of
      Progress Rail.  We also acquired assets with related goodwill of
      $39 million as part of the purchase of the large components business of
      Royal Oak Industries, Inc.  See Note 25 for details on the
      acquisition of these assets.   No goodwill was acquired
      during the year ended December 31, 2005. 

During 2006,
      we determined that the business outlook for the parts and accessories
      distribution business of MG Rover, acquired in 2004, required a specific
      impairment evaluation. The declining outlook of this business resulted
      from MG Rover s cessation of vehicle production and warranties resulting
      from their bankruptcy in 2005. Although the MG Rover parts business
      continues to provide parts to the existing population of vehicles, the
      unit s sales will continue to decline as production of new vehicles has
      ceased. In determining if there was impairment, we first compared the fair
      value of the reporting unit (calculated by discounting projected cash
      flows) to the carrying value. Because the carrying value exceeded the fair
      value, we then allocated the fair value to the assets and liabilities of
      the unit and determined the fair value of the implied goodwill was zero.
      Accordingly, a goodwill impairment charge of $18 million, representing the
      entire goodwill associated with the MG Rover parts and accessories
      business at that date, was included in  Other operating expenses  in
      Statement 1 and reported in the  All Other  category in Note 24. No
      goodwill was impaired or disposed of during the year ended December 31,
      2007 or 2005. 

The changes
      in carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment for the years ended
      December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as
  follows: 

1   
                   
                        All
      Other includes operating segments included in  All Other  category (see
      Note 24).   

13. 

Available-for-sale
      securities 

Financial
      Products, primarily Cat Insurance, has investments in certain debt and
      equity securities at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, that have been
      classified as available-for-sale in accordance with SFAS 115 and
      recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. These fair values
      are included in "Other assets" in Statement 2. Unrealized gains and losses
      arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale securities are
      included, net of applicable deferred income taxes, in equity ("Accumulated
      other comprehensive income" in Statement 2). Realized gains and losses on
      sales of investments are generally determined using the FIFO method for
      debt instruments and the specific identification method for equity
      securities. Realized gains and losses are included in "Other income
      (expense)" in Statement 1. 

A-23   

Government Debt.  The
      unrealized losses on our investments in U.S. Treasury obligations, direct
      obligations of U.S. governmental agencies and federal agency
      mortgage-backed securities are the result of an increase in interest
      rates. There are no credit related events on any of these securities. We
      intend to and have the ability to hold these investments that are less
      than book value until recovery to fair value or maturity. We do not
      consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of
      December 31, 2007. 

Corporate Bonds.  The
      unrealized losses on our investments in corporate bonds relate primarily
      to an increase in interest rates. Individual companies subject to buyouts
      have seen the yield spreads on the debt widen. We currently believe it is
      probable that we will be able to collect all amounts due according to the
      contractual terms of our investments in corporate debt securities. We
      intend to and have the ability to hold these investments that are less
      than book value, for the aforementioned reasons, until recovery to fair
      value or maturity. We do not consider these investments to be
      other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2007. 

Equity Securities.  Cat
      Insurance maintains a well-diversified portfolio consisting of three
      specific mandates: large cap value stocks, small and mid cap growth stocks
      and international growth and income stocks. The individual securities held
      in these portfolios support cash flow, asset allocation and investment
      objectives. Currently, we have no holdings in mutual funds. In each case
      where unrealized losses occur in the individual stocks, company management
      is taking corrective action to increase shareholder value. We currently
      believe it is probable that we will be able to recover all amounts due and
      do not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as
      of December 31, 2007. 

The fair
      value of available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2007, by
      contractual maturity, is shown below. Expected maturities will differ from
      contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to prepay and
      creditors may have the right to call
  obligations. 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

Fair
      Value 

Due in one
      year or less 

$ 

95 

Due after one
      year through five years 

$ 

237 

Due after five
      years through ten years 

$ 

200 

Due after ten
      years 

$ 

559 

14. 

Postemployment
      benefit plans 

We have both
      U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S.
      employees and a portion of our non-U.S. employees, primarily in our
      European facilities. Our defined benefit plans provide a benefit based on
      years of service and/or the employee's average earnings near retirement.
      Our defined contribution plans allow employees to contribute a portion of
      their salary to help save for retirement, and in certain cases, we provide
      a matching contribution. We also have defined-benefit retirement health
      care and life insurance plans covering substantially all of our U.S.
      employees. 

A-24   

As discussed
      in Note 1L, on December 31, 2006, we adopted the balance sheet recognition
      provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS
      158),  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
      Postretirement Plans.  

We use a
      November 30th measurement date for our U.S. pension and other
      postretirement benefit plans and a September 30th measurement date
      for our non-U.S. pension plans. Year-end asset and obligation amounts are
      disclosed as of the plan measurement
dates. 

1  

2007 charge to
      recognize previously unrecorded liabilities related to a subsidiary
      pension plan. 

2  

End of year
      rates are used to determine net periodic cost for the subsequent
      year.  See Note 14E. 

Assumed
      health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts
      reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in
      assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following
      effects: 

(Millions
      of dollars) 

One-percentage- 

                    point
      increase 

One- 

                    percentage- 

                    point
      decrease 

Effect on 2007
      service and interest cost components of other postretirement benefit
      cost 

$ 

32 

$ 

(28 

) 

Effect on
      accumulated postretirement benefit obligation  

$ 

395 

$ 

(346 

) 

A-25   

Our target
      asset allocations reflect our investment strategy of maximizing the
      long-term rate of return on plan assets and the resulting funded status,
      within an appropriate level of risk. The U.S. plans are rebalanced to plus
      or minus five percentage points of the target asset allocation ranges on a
      monthly basis. The frequency of rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies
      depending on the plan. 

The use of
      certain derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and
      necessary for achieving overall investment policy
      objectives.  The U.S. plans currently utilize futures contracts
      to offset current equity positions in order to rebalance the total
      portfolio to the target asset allocation.  During 2006 and 2007,
      approximately 10% of the U.S. pension plans  assets were rebalanced from
      equity to fixed income positions through the use of futures contracts. The
      actual asset allocation percentages above represent this rebalancing
      effort.  The plans do not engage in futures contracts for
      speculative purposes. 

Equity
      securities within plan assets include Caterpillar Inc. common stock
      in the amounts of: 

A-26   

N/A (Not
      Applicable):  The adoption of SFAS 158 (see Note 1L) resulted in
      recognition of previously unrecognized prior service cost and actuarial
      loss on our consolidated financial position.  Overall, the
      prepaid asset was eliminated and a liability recognized through an
      adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income. 

The estimated
      amounts that will be amortized from  Accumulated other comprehensive
      income" at December 31, 2007 into net periodic benefit cost (pre-tax) in
      2008 are as follows: 

The following
      amounts relate to our pension plans with projected benefit obligations in
      excess of plan assets: 

The following
      amounts relate to our pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
      in excess of plan assets: 

The
      accumulated postretirement benefit obligation exceeds plan assets for all
      of our other postretirement benefit
plans. 

A-27   

D. 

Expected
      cash flow 

Information
      about the expected cash flow for the pension and other postretirement
      benefit plans is as follows: 

The above
      table reflects the total employer contributions and benefits expected to
      be paid from the plan or from company assets and does not include the
      participants' share of the cost. The expected benefit payments for our
      other postretirement benefits include payments for prescription drug
      benefits. Medicare Part D subsidy amounts expected to be received by
      the company which will offset other postretirement benefit payments are as
      follows: 

1  

Prior service
      costs for both pension and other postretirement benefits are generally
      amortized using the straight-line method over the average remaining
      service period to the full retirement eligibility date of employees
      expected to receive benefits from the plan amendment.  For other
      postretirement benefit plans in which all or almost all of the plan's
      participants are fully eligible for benefits under the plan, prior service
      costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the remaining life
      expectancy of those participants. 

2  

2007 charge to
      recognize previously unrecorded liabilities related to a subsidiary
      pension plan. 

3  

The
      weighted-average rates for 2008 are 9.0% and 7.6% for U.S. and non-U.S.
      plans, respectively. 

A-28   

The assumed
      discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to
      today's dollars. The U.S. discount rate is based on the Moody's Aa bond
      yield as of our measurement date, November 30, and represents the
      rate at which our benefit obligations could effectively be settled. To
      validate the discount rate, a detailed analysis of the individual plans'
      expected cash flows is made annually. This involves analyzing
      Caterpillar's projected cash flows against a high quality bond yield
      curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate Aa bonds. The
      modeled discount rate that results from matching the aggregate expected
      future cash flows from the Caterpillar benefit plans to the yield curve of
      high quality corporate bonds is consistent with the annualized Moody's Aa
      rate. A comprehensive process is also used to determine the assumed
      discount rate for our non-U.S. plans. This rate is sensitive to changes in
      interest rates. A decrease in the discount rate would increase our
      obligation and future expense. 

Our U.S.
      expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate
      of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities
      weighted by the allocation of our pension assets. Based on historical
      performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management
      of the plan assets. To arrive at our expected long-term return, the amount
      added for active management was 1% for 2007, 2006 and 2005.  A
      similar process is used to determine this rate for our non-U.S.
      plans. 

The assumed
      health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are
      assumed to increase. To calculate the 2007 benefit expense, we assumed an
      increase of 7.5% for 2007.  We expect an increase of 7.9% during
      2008.  The 2007 and 2008 rates are assumed to decrease gradually
      to the ultimate health care trend rate of 5.0% in 2016. This rate
      represents 3.0% general inflation plus 2.0% additional health care
      inflation. 

We determined
      that most of our U.S. retiree health care plans are at least actuarially
      equivalent to Medicare Part D and will qualify for the federal
      subsidy. 

F. 

Other
      postemployment benefit plans 

We offer
      long-term disability benefits, continued health care for disabled
      employees, survivor income benefit insurance and supplemental unemployment
      benefits to substantially all eligible U.S.
  employees. 

G. 

Defined
      contribution plans 

We have both
      U.S. and non-U.S. employee defined contribution plans to help employees
      save for retirement. Our U.S. 401(k) plan allows eligible employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to the plan on a tax-deferred basis,
      and we provide a matching contribution equal to 100% of employee
      contributions to the plan up to 6% of their compensation. Various other
      U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans allow eligible employees to
      contribute a portion of their salary to the plans, and in some cases, we
      provide a matching contribution to the funds. 

Total company
      costs related to U.S. and non-U.S. defined contribution plans were the
      following: 

15. 

Short-term
      borrowings 

The
      weighted-average interest rates on short-term borrowings outstanding
      were: 

Please refer
      to Note 19 and Table IV for fair value information on short-term
      borrowings. 

A-29   

All
      outstanding notes and debentures are unsecured.  The deposit
      obligations have corresponding security deposits that relate to two
      finance arrangements, which provide us a return. These finance
      arrangements require that we commit to certain long-term obligations and
      provide security deposits, which will fulfill these obligations when they
      become due.   The security deposits associated with the
      outstanding deposit obligations for Financial Products are included in
      "Other assets" in Statement 2.  At December 31, 2006, the
      Machinery and Engines deposit obligations are included in  Long-term debt
      due within one year , and the corresponding security deposit is included
      in  Prepaid expenses and other current assets  in Statement
      2.  During the fourth quarter of 2007, the Machinery and Engines
      finance arrangement was terminated, the security deposit was
      converted to cash and the corresponding debt obligation was
      paid. 

On August 8,
      2006, Caterpillar Inc. issued $500 million of 5.70% notes due in 2016 and
      $750 million of 6.05% debentures due in 2036. 

On
      September 13, 2005, $116 million of 9.375% debentures due in
      2021 and $117 million of 8.00% debentures due in 2023 were exchanged
      for $307 million of 5.30% debentures due in 2035 and $23 million
      of cash. At December 31, 2007, the book value of the 5.30% debentures due
      in 2035 was $202 million with an effective yield to maturity of
      8.55%. 

We may redeem
      the 6.55% and 5.70% notes and the 7.25%, 6.625%, 7.30%, 5.30%, 6.05%,
      6.95% and 7.375% debentures in whole or in part at our option at any time
      at a redemption price equal to the greater of 100% of the principal amount
      of the debentures to be redeemed or the sum of the present value of the
      remaining scheduled payments. 

The terms of
      other notes and debentures do not specify a redemption option prior to
      maturity. 

Based on
      medium-term note issuances subsequent to year end, $903 million,
      $408 million and $299 million of commercial paper outstanding at
      December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, was classified as
      long-term debt due after one year. 

Medium-term
      notes are offered by prospectus and are issued through agents at fixed and
      floating rates. These notes have a weighted average interest rate of 4.7%
      with remaining maturities up to 20 years at December 31, 2007.

The aggregate
      amounts of maturities of long-term debt during each of the years 2008
      through 2012, including amounts due within one year and classified as
      current, are: 

1  

We have three global
      credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $6.55 billion
      available in the aggregate to both Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products to support commercial paper programs.  Based on
      management s allocation decision, which can be revised at anytime, the
      portion of the credit facilities allocated to Cat Financial was $5.55
      billion at December 31, 2007.  During 2007, the five-year
      facility of $1.62 billion, which was scheduled to expire in September
      2010, was extended and will expire September 2012.  The
      five-year facility of $2.98 billion has not changed and will expire
      September 2011.  The 364-day facility was increased from $1.85
      billion to $1.95 billion and will expire in September 2008.  The
      facility expiring in September 2008 has a provision that allows
      Caterpillar or Cat Financial to obtain a one-year loan in September 2008
      that would mature in September 2009. At December 31, 2007, there were
      no borrowings under these
lines. 

SARs and
      stock options to purchase 543,971 and 9,626,940 common shares were
      outstanding in 2007 and 2006, respectively, but were not included in the
      computation of diluted earnings per share because the effect would have
      been antidilutive.  There were no antidilutive stock options
      outstanding at December 31, 2005. 

On June 8,
      2005, Caterpillar s Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 stock split in
      the form of a 100 percent stock dividend.  The stock split
      shares were distributed on July 13, 2005 to stockholders of record at the
      close of business on June 22, 2005.  Capital accounts, share
      data and profit per share data reflect the stock split, applied
      retroactively, to all periods
presented. 

19. 

Fair
      values of financial instruments 

We
      used the following methods and assumptions to estimate the fair value of
      our financial instruments: 

Cash and short-term
      investments     carrying amount approximated fair
      value.  

Long-term investments (other
      than investments in unconsolidated affiliated companies  )     fair value for available-for-sale securities
      was estimated based on quoted market prices. Fair value for security
      deposits approximated carrying
value.  

A-30   

Foreign currency forward and
      option contracts  fair value of forward contracts was determined by
      discounting the future cash flow resulting from the differential between
      the contract price and the forward rate. Fair value of option contracts
      was determined by using the Black-Scholes model. 

Finance receivables  fair
      value was estimated by discounting the future cash flow using current
      rates, representative of receivables with similar remaining maturities.
      Historical bad debt experience also was considered. 

Wholesale inventory
      receivables  fair value was estimated by discounting the future cash
      flow using current rates, representative of receivables with similar
      remaining maturities. 

Short-term
      borrowings  carrying amount approximated fair
  value. 

Long-term debt  for
      Machinery and Engines notes and debentures, fair value was estimated based
      on quoted market prices. For Financial Products, fair value was estimated
      by discounting the future cash flow using our current borrowing rates for
      similar types and maturities of debt, except for floating rate notes and
      commercial paper supported by long-term credit agreements for which the
      carrying amounts were considered a reasonable estimate of fair value. For
      deposit obligations carrying value approximated fair value. 

Interest rate swaps  fair
      value was estimated based on the amount that we would receive or pay to
      terminate our agreements as of year-end. 

Guarantees  fair value is
      estimated based on the premium we would require to issue the same
      guarantee in a stand alone arm's-length transaction with an unrelated
      party. 

Please refer
      to Table IV in Note 19 for the fair values of our financial
      instruments. 

20. 

Concentration
      of credit risk 

Financial
      instruments with potential credit risk consist primarily of trade and
      finance receivables and short-term and long-term investments.
      Additionally, to a lesser extent, we have a potential credit risk
      associated with counterparties to derivative contracts. 

Trade
      receivables are primarily short-term receivables from independently owned
      and operated dealers and customers which arise in the normal course of
      business. We perform regular credit evaluations of our dealers and
      customers. Collateral generally is not required, and the majority of our
      trade receivables are unsecured. We do, however, when deemed necessary,
      make use of various devices such as security agreements and letters of
      credit to protect our interests. No single dealer or customer represents a
      significant concentration of credit risk. 

Finance
      receivables and wholesale inventory receivables primarily represent
      receivables under installment sales contracts, receivables arising from
      leasing transactions and notes receivable. We generally maintain a secured
      interest in the equipment financed. No single customer or dealer
      represents a significant concentration of credit risk. 

Short-term
      and long-term investments are held with high quality institutions and, by
      policy, the amount of credit exposure to any one institution is limited.
      Long-term investments, included in "Other assets" in Statement 2, are
      comprised primarily of investments which collateralize deposit obligations
      and investments of Cat Insurance supporting insurance reserve
      requirements. 

A-31   

For
      derivatives contracts, collateral is generally not required of the
      counterparties or of our company. We do not anticipate nonperformance by
      any of the counterparties. Our exposure to credit loss in the event of
      nonperformance by the counterparties is limited to only those gains that
      we have recorded, but have not yet received cash payment. At
      December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the exposure to credit loss was
      $204 million, $149 million and  $141 million,
      respectively. 

Please refer
      to Note 19 and Table IV above for fair value
      information. 

We lease
      certain computer and communications equipment, transportation equipment
      and other property through operating leases. Total rental expense for
      operating leases was $362 million, $319 million and $257 million
      for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 

Minimum
      payments for operating leases having initial or remaining non-cancelable
      terms in excess of one year are: 

22. 

Guarantees
      and product warranty 

We have
      guaranteed to repurchase loans of certain Caterpillar dealers from third
      party lenders in the event of default. These guarantees arose in
      conjunction with Cat Financial's relationship with third party dealers who
      sell Caterpillar equipment. These guarantees generally have one-year terms
      and are secured, primarily by dealer assets.  Additionally, we have provided an
      indemnity to a third party insurance company for potential losses related
      to performance bonds issued on behalf of Caterpillar
      dealers.  The bonds are issued to insure governmental agencies
      against nonperformance by certain Caterpillar dealers.  

We provide
      loan guarantees to third party lenders for financing associated with
      machinery purchased by customers. The loan guarantees are for the remote
      chance that the customers will become insolvent.  These
      guarantees have varying terms and are secured by the
      machinery. 

Cat Financial
      has provided a limited indemnity to a third party bank for
      $30 million resulting from the assignment of certain leases to that
      bank. The indemnity is for the remote chance that the insurers of these
      leases would become insolvent. The indemnity expires December 15,
      2012 and is unsecured.   

No loss has
      been experienced or is anticipated under any of these guarantees. At
      December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the related liability was $12
      million, $10 million and $9 million, respectively. The maximum
      potential amount of future payments (undiscounted and without reduction
      for any amounts that may possibly be recovered under recourse or
      collateralized provisions) we could be required to make under the
      guarantees at December 31 are as
follows: 

Cat Financial
      is party to agreements in the normal course of business with selected
      customers and Caterpillar dealers in which we commit to provide a set
      dollar amount of financing on a pre-approved basis. We also provide lines
      of credit to selected customers and Caterpillar dealers, of which a
      portion remains unused as of the end of the period. Commitments and lines
      of credit generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination
      clauses. It has been our experience that not all commitments and lines of
      credit will be used. Management applies the same credit policies when
      making commitments and granting lines of credit as it does for any other
      financing. We do not require collateral for these commitments/lines, but
      if credit is extended, collateral may be required upon funding. The amount
      of the unused commitments and lines of credit for dealers as of December
      31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $8,249 million,  $6,519 million and
      $4,669 million, respectively. The amount of the unused commitments and
      lines of credit for customers as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was
      $3,001 million, $2,279 million and $1,972 million,
      respectively. 

Our product
      warranty liability is determined by applying historical claim rate
      experience to the current field population and dealer
      inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on
      actual warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine
      size.  Specific rates are developed for each product build month
      and are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim
      experience. 

23. 

Environmental
      and legal matters 

The company
      is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws
      governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of
      emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other
      operations, these laws often impact the development of our products,
      including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions
      standards applicable to internal combustion engines. Compliance with these
      existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures,
      earnings or global competitive position. 

We are
      engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other
      companies, pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is
      reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs
      can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against our
      earnings.  In formulating that estimate, we do not consider
      amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or
      others.  The amount recorded for environmental remediation is
      not material and is included in  Accrued Expenses  in Statement
      2. 

We cannot
      reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of
      remediation.  Currently, we have a few sites in the very early
      stages of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a
      material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all
      sites in the aggregate, will be
required. 

A-32   

We have
      disclosed certain individual legal proceedings in this
      filing.  Additionally, we are involved in other unresolved legal
      actions that arise in the normal course of business. The most prevalent of
      these unresolved actions involve disputes related to product design,
      manufacture and performance liability (including claimed asbestos and
      welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues or intellectual
      property rights.   Although it is not possible to predict
      with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe
      that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a
      material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity
      or results of operations. 

On May 14,
      2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of
      Violation to Caterpillar Inc., alleging various violations of Clean Air
      Act Sections 203, 206 and 207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar
      violated such sections by shipping engines and catalytic converter
      after-treatment devices separately, introducing into commerce a number of
      uncertified and/or mis-built engines, and failing to timely report
      emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is currently engaging in
      negotiations with EPA to resolve these issues, but it is too early in the
      process to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
      penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and,
      based upon initial discussions, and although penalties could potentially
      exceed $100 thousand, management does not believe that this issue will
      have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial
      position. 

On September
      29, 2004, Kruse Technology Partnership (Kruse) filed a lawsuit against
      Caterpillar in the United States District Court for the Central District
      of California alleging that certain Caterpillar engines built from October
      2002 to the present infringe upon certain claims of three of Kruse's
      patents on engine fuel injection timing and combustion
      strategies.  Kruse seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief and
      a finding that the alleged infringement by Caterpillar was
      willful.  Caterpillar denies Kruse's allegations, believes they
      are without merit and filed a counterclaim seeking a declaration from the
      court that Caterpillar is not infringing upon Kruse's patents and that the
      patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The counterclaim filed
      by Caterpillar is pending, and no trial date is currently
      scheduled.  In the opinion of management, the ultimate
      disposition of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our
      consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
      operations. 

24. 

Segment
      information 

A. 

Basis
      for segment information 

Caterpillar
      is organized based on a decentralized structure that has established
      accountabilities to continually improve business focus and increase our
      ability to react quickly to changes in both the global business cycle and
      competitors' actions. Our current structure uses a product, geographic
      matrix organization comprised of multiple profit center and service center
      divisions. 

Caterpillar
      is a highly integrated company.  The majority of our profit
      centers are product focused.  They are primarily responsible for
      the design, manufacture and/or ongoing support of their
      products.  Some of these product focused profit centers also
      have marketing responsibilities.  In addition, we have
      geographically-based profit centers that are focused primarily on
      marketing.  One of these profit centers also has some
      manufacturing responsibilities.  One of our profit centers
      provides various financial services to our customers and
      dealers.  The service center divisions perform corporate
      functions and provide centralized services. 

In the first
      quarter of 2007, four new profit centers were formed from restructuring
      the Construction and Mining Products reportable segment (which was the
      aggregation of three profit centers, Mining and Construction Equipment
      Division, Track-Type Tractor Division and Wheel Loaders and Excavators
      Division) and EAME Product Development and Operations Division (included
      in the  All Other  category).  Two of the new profit centers,
      the Infrastructure Product Development Division and Heavy Construction and
      Mining Division are primarily responsible for medium and large machine
      product management and development while the newly formed U.S. Operations
      Division and the EAME Operations Division are primarily responsible for
      medium and large machine manufacturing in their respective geographic
      regions. Heavy Construction and Mining Division is a reportable segment
      and the remaining three new divisions are included in the  All Other 
      category. The segment information for 2006 and 2005 has been reclassified
      to conform to the 2007 presentation. 

We have
      developed an internal measurement system to evaluate performance and to
      drive continuous improvement. This measurement system, which is not based
      on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), is intended to
      motivate desired behavior of employees and drive performance. It is not
      intended to measure a division's contribution to enterprise results. The
      sales and cost information used for internal purposes varies significantly
      from our consolidated externally reported information, resulting in
      substantial reconciling items. Each division has specific performance
      targets and is evaluated and compensated based on achieving those targets.
      Performance targets differ from division to division; therefore,
      meaningful comparisons cannot be made among the profit or service center
      divisions. It is the comparison of actual results to budgeted results that
      makes our internal reporting valuable to management. Consequently, we feel
      that the financial information required by Statement of Financial
      Accounting Standards No. 131 (SFAS 131), "Disclosures about
      Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" has limited value for
      our external readers. 

Due to
      Caterpillar's high level of integration and our concern that segment
      disclosures based on SFAS 131 requirements have limited value to external
      readers, we are continuing to disclose financial results for our three
      principal lines of business (Machinery, Engines and Financial Products) in
      our Management's Discussion and Analysis beginning on page
      A-41. 

B. 

Description
      of segments 

The
      profit center divisions meet the SFAS 131 definition of "operating
      segments;" however, the service center divisions do not. The following is
      a brief description of our nine reportable segments and the business
      activities included in the  All Other  category. 

Asia/Pacific
      Marketing:  Primarily responsible for marketing machinery
      through dealers in Australia, Asia (excluding Japan) and the Pacific
      Rim.   

Heavy Construction
        Mining:   Primarily responsible for product management,
      development and support of medium and large track-type tractors, mining
      trucks, quarry and aggregate trucks, large wheel loaders, wheel tractor
      scrapers and track
loaders.   

A-33   

EAME
      Marketing:  Primarily responsible for marketing machinery
      through dealers in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of
      Independent States. 

Electric
      Power:  Primarily responsible for the design, manufacture and
      ongoing support of natural gas and diesel powered generator sets as well
      as integrated systems used in the electric power generation industry. Also
      includes marketing through dealers worldwide. 

Financing  
      Insurance Services:  Provides financing to customers and
      dealers for the purchase and lease of Caterpillar and other equipment, as
      well as some financing for Caterpillar sales to dealers. Financing plans
      include operating and finance leases, installment sale contracts, working
      capital loans and wholesale financing plans. The division also provides
      various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the
      purchase and lease of our equipment. 

Large
      Power Products:  Primarily responsible for the design,
      manufacture and ongoing support of C7 and larger reciprocating engines.
      These engines are used in various industries and applications including
      on-highway truck, electric power, industrial/rail, marine, petroleum and
      Caterpillar machinery. 

Latin
      America:  Primarily responsible for marketing machinery and
      engines through dealers in Latin America. Also includes the manufacturing
      of machinery and components used in a variety of construction and mining
      applications. 

North
      America Marketing:  Primarily responsible for marketing
      machinery through dealers in the United States and Canada. 

Power
      Systems   OEM Solutions:   Primarily responsible for
      marketing and ongoing support of reciprocating engines sold into
      on-highway truck, marine and petroleum applications, and integrated
      component solutions to external original equipment
      manufacturers. 

All
      other:   Primarily includes activities such as: service
      support and parts distribution to Caterpillar dealers worldwide; logistics
      services for Caterpillar and other companies; remanufacturing of
      Caterpillar engines and components and remanufacturing services for other
      companies; design, manufacture and ongoing support for reciprocating
      engines used in industrial applications; design, manufacture, marketing
      and ongoing support of turbines; regional manufacturing of construction
      and mining machinery and components in North America, Europe, Asia and
      Australia; design, manufacture and ongoing support of building
      construction, paving and forestry machinery and related components and
      control systems; and the design, manufacture, remanufacture, maintenance
      and services of rail-related products and
  services. 

C. 

Segment
      measurement and reconciliations 

Please refer
      to Table V on pages A-35 to A-37 for financial information regarding our
      segments. There are several accounting differences between our segment
      reporting and our external reporting. Our segments are measured on an
      accountable basis; therefore, only those items for which divisional
      management is directly responsible are included in the determination of
      segment profit/(loss) and assets. In 2006, we began charging business
      segments certain costs that previously were reconciling
      items.  No individual segment was materially impacted as a
      result of the changes.  In addition, we made several
      organizational changes that impacted our segment reporting. The
      information for 2006 and 2005 has been reclassified to conform to the
      2007 presentation.  

The following
      is a list of the more significant accounting
  differences: 

Generally,
      liabilities are managed at the corporate level and are not included in
      segment operations. Segment accountable assets generally include
      inventories, receivables and property, plant and
  equipment.  

We account for
      intersegment transfers using a system of market-based prices. With minor
      exceptions, each of the profit centers either sells or purchases virtually
      all of its products to or from other profit centers within the company.
      Our high level of integration results in our internally reported sales
      being approximately double that of our consolidated, externally reported
      sales.  

Segment inventories
      and cost of sales are valued using a current cost
  methodology.  

Postretirement
      benefit expenses are split; segments are generally responsible for service
      and prior services costs, with the remaining elements of net periodic
      benefit cost included as a methodology
difference.  

Interest expense is
      imputed (i.e., charged) to profit centers based on their level of
      accountable assets.  

Accountable profit
      is determined on a pretax basis.   

Reconciling
      items are created based on accounting differences between segment
      reporting and our consolidated, external reporting. Please refer to Table
      V on pages A-35 to A-37 for financial information regarding significant
      reconciling items. Most of our reconciling items are self-explanatory
      given the above explanations of accounting differences. However, for the
      reconciliation of profit, we have grouped the reconciling items as
      follows: 

Corporate costs:  
      Certain corporate costs are not charged to our segments. These costs are
      related to corporate requirements and strategies that are considered to be
      for the benefit of the entire
organization.  

Timing:  Timing
      differences in the recognition of costs between segment reporting and
      consolidated external reporting.  

Methodology differences: 
      See previous discussion of significant accounting differences between
      segment reporting and consolidated external
  reporting. 

A-34   

A-35   

A-36   

1  

Sales of
      machinery and engines are based on dealer or customer location. Revenues
      from services provided are based on where service is
    rendered. 

2  

Amount
      includes $786 million, $725 million and $692 million of net
      property, plant and equipment located in the United Kingdom as of
      December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
  respectively. 

A-37   

25. 

Alliances
      and acquisitions 

Forestry
      Division of Blount International, Inc. 

                  In November
      2007, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain
      liabilities of Blount International s Forestry Division. The cost of the
      acquisition was $82 million, consisting of $79 million in cash and a net
      employee benefit liability incurred of $3 million.  Blount s
      Forestry Division manufactures, markets and supports timber harvesting and
      processing equipment, loaders and attachments. The acquisition supports
      our corporate objective to be the forestry market leader and enables us to
      offer the broadest product line in the industry with a full range of
      products and services for logging, millyard, road-building and land
      management. 

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $36 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $24 million
      related to customer relationships, intellectual property and trade names
      are being amortized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average
      amortization period of approximately 9 years.  Goodwill of $22
      million, deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost
      over the fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets
      acquired.  These values represent a preliminary allocation of
      the purchase price subject to finalization of fair value appraisals and
      other post-closing procedures.  The results of the acquired
      business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the
      accompanying consolidated financial statements and reported in the  All
      Other  category in Note 24.  Assuming this transaction had been
      made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma
      results would not be materially different from reported
      results. 

Franklin
      Power Products 

                  In February
      2007, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of
      Franklin Power Products, Inc. (FPP) and International Fuel Systems, Inc.
      (IFS), subsidiaries of Remy International. In June 2007, pursuant to the
      acquisition agreement, additional assets were purchased from Remy
      International for $7 million which increased the total purchase price to
      approximately $165 million, consisting of $160 million paid at the
      closings and an additional $5 million post closing adjustment paid in July
      2007.   FPP is a remanufacturer of on-highway light and
      medium duty truck diesel engines and engine components. IFS provides
      remanufactured diesel components such as high-pressure fuel pumps, fuel
      injectors and turbochargers. This acquisition represents a strategic
      expansion of our engine and engine component remanufacturing
      operations. 

This
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings.  Net tangible assets acquired and liabilities
      assumed of $39 million were recorded at their fair
      values.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired of $89 million
      related to customer relationships are primarily being amortized on a
      straight-line basis over 20 years.  Goodwill of $37 million,
      deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the
      fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets
      acquired.  The results of the acquired business for the period
      from the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated
      financial statements and reported in the  All Other  category in Note
      24.  Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of
      any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be
      materially different from reported results. 

Large
      Components Business of Royal Oak Industries, Inc. 

                  In August
      2006, we acquired the large components business of Royal Oak Industries,
      Inc. (Royal Oak), a supplier to our engines business, for $97 million,
      consisting of $92 million at closing and $5 million plus accrued interest
      to be paid in 2009.   The  business acquired
      provides machining of engine cylinder blocks, heads, manifolds and bearing
      caps. This acquisition expands our machining operations in our engine
      manufacturing business. 

The
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings. Net tangible assets acquired of $58 million, consisting of
      property, plant and equipment, accounts receivable and inventory, were
      recorded at their fair values.  No intangible assets were
      acquired.  Goodwill of $39 million,  deductible for income tax
      purposes,  represents the excess of cost over the fair value of the
      acquired net tangible assets.  The results of the acquired
      business for the period from the acquisition date are included in the
      accompanying consolidated financial statements and reported in the  Large
      Power Products  segment in Note 24.  Assuming this transaction
      had been made at the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated
      pro forma results would not be materially different from reported
      results. 

Progress
      Rail Services, Inc. 

                   In June 2006, Caterpillar acquired
      100 percent of the equity in privately held Progress Rail Services, Inc.
      (Progress Rail) for approximately $1 billion, including the assumption of
      $200 million in debt. Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a
      leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products
      and services to the North American railroad industry. The company also has
      one of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North
      America. When acquired, Progress Rail operated more than 90 facilities in
      29 states in the United States, Canada and Mexico, with about 3,700
      employees. Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is a strong
      fit with our strategic direction and will leverage Caterpillar's
      remanufacturing capabilities.  

The
      transaction was financed with available cash and commercial paper
      borrowings of $427 million and Caterpillar stock of $379 million (5.3
      million shares). Net tangible assets acquired, recorded at their fair
      values, primarily were inventories of $257 million, receivables of $169
      million and property, plant and equipment of $260 million. Liabilities
      acquired, recorded at their fair values, primarily consisted of assumed
      debt of $200 million, accounts payable of $148 million and net deferred
      tax liabilities of $115 million. Finite-lived intangible assets acquired
      of $223 million related primarily to customer relationships are being
      amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years. Goodwill of $431
      million, non-deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of
      cost over the fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible
      assets acquired. The results of the acquired business for the period from
      the acquisition date are included in the accompanying consolidated
      financial statements and reported in the  All Other  category in Note 24.
      Assuming this transaction had been made at the beginning of any period
      presented, the consolidated pro forma results would not be materially
      different from reported results. 

A-38   

Global
      Alliance with JLG Industries, Inc. 

                        In
      November 2005, we entered into a global alliance agreement with JLG
      Industries, Inc. (JLG) to produce a full line of Caterpillar branded
      telehandlers. The alliance is a strategic fit for both companies and will
      give Caterpillar dealers and customers greater access to a quality range
      of Caterpillar branded telehandler products. Caterpillar will supply
      components to JLG and JLG will benefit by distributing through the
      Caterpillar dealer network and utilizing our parts distribution
      capabilities. Under the 20 year alliance agreement, telehandler
      production shifted from Caterpillar's manufacturing facility in Desford,
      United Kingdom to JLG's manufacturing facilities.   In accordance with the alliance
      agreement, JLG paid Caterpillar $46 million at closing and $5 million in
      September 2006. The book value of assets acquired by JLG was $10 million.
      The resulting $41 million gain was deferred and is being recognized over
      the alliance agreement.  

As part of
      the telehandler production shift, Caterpillar's Building Construction
      Products Division, part of Caterpillar's "All Other" category, began a
      strategic restructuring to better position its European manufacturing
      operations. This restructuring resulted in approximately $8 million
      in severance costs, charged to "Other operating expenses" in Statement 1.
      The severance costs relate to approximately 400 voluntary and involuntary
      employee separations. 

26. 

Selected
      quarterly financial results
(unaudited) 

27. 

Subsequent
      event - Oxford, Mississippi Facility
Damage 

On February
      5, 2008, our facility in Oxford, Mississippi that manufactures hose
      couplings for most of our machinery was physically damaged by a
      tornado.  We are currently implementing our comprehensive
      business resumption plan for Oxford as well as leveraging internal and
      external resources from around the world to supply hose couplings to the
      affected Caterpillar manufacturing plants.  To date, the
      disruption of operations in Oxford has not stopped production at other
      Caterpillar facilities.  However, for the next few months,
      assembly operations covering a broad range of machinery will be
      sporadically impacted as a result of the tornado damage.  It is
      too early to estimate the impact on the company s consolidated results due
      to the tornado. 

A-39   

1  

Computed on
      weighted-average number of shares outstanding. 

2  

Computed on
      weighted-average number of shares outstanding diluted by assumed exercise
      of stock-based compensation awards, using the treasury stock
      method. 

3  

Represents
      profit divided by average stockholders' equity (beginning of year
      stockholders' equity plus end of year stockholders' equity divided by
      two). 

4  

The per share
      data reflects the 2005 2-for-1 stock split. 

5  

As discussed
      in Note 1L, effective December 31, 2006 we changed the manner in which we
      accounted for postemployment benefits upon the adoption of SFAS
      158. 

6  

As discussed
      in Note 1N, in 2006 we changed the manner in which we accounted for
      stock-based compensation upon the adoption of SFAS
123R. 

7  

As discussed
      in Note 1L, in 2007 we changed the manner in which we accounted for
      uncertain tax positions upon the adoption of FIN
  48. 

A-40   

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
  ANALYSIS  

OVERVIEW   

2007 was the fifth
straight year of record sales and revenues and the fourth consecutive year of
record profit.  Sales and revenues were $44.958 billion, up 8 percent
from 2006, and profit per share was $5.37, up 4 percent from 2006.  We
also reported record fourth-quarter sales and revenues of $12.144 billion, 10
percent higher than the fourth quarter of 2006, and profit per share of $1.50,
up 14 percent from a year ago. 

Our broad global
footprint has enabled us to benefit from strong economic growth outside the
United States, as global markets for mining, energy and infrastructure
development are booming. Our overall 8 percent growth in sales and revenues were
accomplished in a year when end markets in the United States were
weak.  Considering that North American dealers took machine
inventories down $1.1 billion in 2007, our sales story is even more
impressive. 

For the year, sales
and revenues increased $3.441 billion $1.271 billion from higher  sales
volume  including $775 million from the acquisition of Progress Rail, $932
million from improved  price
realization , $890 million from the effects of  currency 
and $348 million from higher  Financial
Products  revenues.  2007  profit 
reflected price realization and higher sales volume offset by higher  core operating
costs .   Machinery and
Engines  operating cash flow of $5.446 billion was up 18 percent from 2006
and was an all time record.  As a result of record Machinery and
Engines operating cash flows over the past three years, our financial position
remained very strong with a year-end  debt-to-capital
ratio  for Machinery and Engines of 31.2 percent. 

For the fourth
quarter, sales and revenues increased $1.141 billion $392 million from improved
price realization, $334 million from the effects of currency, $306 million from
higher sales volume and $109 million from higher Financial Products
revenues.  Fourth-quarter profit increased $93 million. The increase
was due to improved price realization and higher volume, partially offset by
higher core operating costs. 

In 2008, the
company expects another record year with sales and revenues increasing 5 to 10
percent and profit per share increasing 5 to 15 percent from
2007.  Our outlook reflects continued growth at a time when we re
expecting recessionary conditions to persist in key markets we serve in the
United States.  The company is starting 2008 with a very strong order
backlog, particularly for larger products like industrial gas turbines, large
reciprocating engines and mining trucks.  While our expectations are
for anemic growth in the U.S. economy, we continue to see positive conditions
for our sales in most of the rest of the world.  We will be stepping
up Research and Development (R D) for new products and capital investment to
increase capacity around the world.  We expect the world s robust
investment in infrastructure to continue well into the next decade, and we ll
need more capacity to serve our customers.  Our internal focus will be
on continuing our global deployment of the  Caterpillar
Production System (CPS)  with  6
Sigma . 

It is our objective
to provide the most meaningful disclosures in our Management's Discussion and
Analysis in order to explain significant changes in our company's results of
operations and liquidity and capital resources. As discussed in Note 24,
our segment financial information is not based on generally accepted accounting
principles and it is not intended to measure contributions to enterprise
results. Therefore, it is impractical for us to try to discuss our company's
results of operations and liquidity and capital resources solely based on
segment information. Where practical, we have linked our discussions to segment
information provided in Note 24 and Table V on pages A-35 to A-37 (see
"Reconciliation of Machinery and Engines   Sales
by Geographic Region to External Sales by Marketing Segment" on page A-45). Our
discussions will focus on consolidated results and our three principal lines of
business,  Machinery ,
 Engines 
and Financial Products. 

*Glossary of terms
included on pages A-56 to A-57; first occurrence of terms shown in bold
italics. 

A-41   

2007 COMPARED
WITH 2006   

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The
      chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Sales and Revenues between 2006 (at left) and 2007 (at
      right).  Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as
      upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar,
      while items negatively impacting sales and revenues appear as downward
      stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each
      bar.  The bar entitled Machinery Volume includes the change in
      Progress Rail sales.  Caterpillar management utilizes these
      charts internally to visually communicate with the company s Board of
      Directors and employees.  

Sales and revenues
for 2007 were $44.958 billion, up $3.441 billion, or 8 percent, from
2006.  2007 machinery sales were up 9 percent as strong growth outside
North America and a full year of Progress Rail more than offset a weak U.S.
construction market. Machinery volume was up $1.289
billion.  Excluding Progress Rail, machinery volume was up $514
million.  Although sales volume increased moderately, the geographic
shift in sales was significant.  North American machinery sales were
down 11 percent; machinery sales outside of North America were up 33
percent. 

Engines sales
increased 6 percent despite the 59 percent decline in North American on-highway
truck engines. Sales volume was down slightly as growth in engines sales to
industries like oil and gas, electric power, industrial and marine nearly offset
the volume decline in on-highway truck engines. 

In addition, price
realization was more than 2 percent despite an unfavorable geographic
mix.  Currency had a positive impact on sales of $890 million driven
primarily by the stronger euro.  Financial Products revenues were up
13 percent. 

A-42  

Machinery
Sales  

Sales of $28.359
billion were an increase of $2.297 billion, or 9 percent, from
2006. 

Excluding
      Progress Rail, machinery volume increased $514 million.  Sales
      volume decreased in North America but increased in all other
      regions. 

Price
      realization increased $410 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $598 million. 

Geographic
      mix between regions (included in price realization) was $182 million
      unfavorable. 

The
      acquisition of Progress Rail added $775
million. 

North
      American dealers reduced reported inventories substantially in 2007,
      taking them well below a year earlier in months of
      supply.  Inventories in months of supply declined in most other
      regions as well. 

Economic
      factors, primarily in the United States, contributed to lower sales volume
      in North America.  These factors included the collapse in
      housing construction, weakness in nonresidential construction contracts in
      the last half of 2007 and a decline in quarry and aggregate
      production. 

Sales volume
      increased in the rest of the world, offsetting weakness in North
      America.  Positives included relatively low interest rates, good
      economic growth and continued growth in
  construction. 

Metals mining
      was positive in many countries throughout the world.  Metals
      prices increased, and mining companies increased exploration spending by
      more than 40 percent. 

Oil prices
      increased about 10 percent, and natural gas prices increased 4
      percent.  Production and drilling increased in many regions, and
      pipeline construction increased. 

Transportation
      problems, particularly in Australia, contributed to a significant increase
      in international coal prices.  The impact on sales volume
      varied negative for Australia and the United States but positive
      elsewhere. 

North America    Sales
decreased $1,619 million, or 11 percent. 

Sales volume
      excluding Progress Rail decreased $2,540
  million. 

Price
      realization increased $146 million. 

Progress Rail
      increased sales $775 million. 

Dealers
      reduced their reported inventories by about  $1.1 billion in
      2007 compared to a $300 million increase in 2006.  Dealer
      inventories at the end of the year were well below a year earlier in both
      dollars and months of supply. 

An
      unfavorable economic environment caused output to decline in many key
      industries in the United States, prompting users to curtail fleet
      expansions.  In addition, dealers added fewer units to their
      rental fleets and let existing fleets
age. 

Output prices
      for some industries, such as housing and coal mining, softened. Reduced
      profitability and tighter credit likely caused some users to delay
      replacement purchases. 

The housing
      industry weakened throughout the year, with starts down 26 percent in
      2007.  Tighter lending standards, a large number of unsold homes
      and a sharp drop in home sales caused builders to reduce
      construction. 

Nonresidential
      construction spending increased 18 percent, however, contracts awarded for
      new construction declined about 2 percent.  Employment in
      nonresidential construction also weakened in the last half of the
      year.  Factors that contributed to this weakening included
      tighter standards for commercial and industrial loans, higher corporate
      bond spreads and a decline in business cash
  flows. 

Spot coal
      prices declined leading to a 3 percent decline in coal
      production.  Electric utilities reduced coal usage, and
      stockpiles increased.  More positively, coal exports rebounded
      more than 15 percent as a result of U.S. prices falling well below
      international prices. 

Metals
      mining, oil sands and pipeline construction remained
      positive.  Average metals prices increased more than 40 percent,
      and mines in both Canada and the United States increased
      production.  Canada increased crude oil production 7
      percent.  Shipments of line pipe in the United States increased
      14 percent. 

EAME      Sales increased $2,365
million, or 38 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $202 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $434 million. 

Dealers
      reported significant increases in demand and increased inventories to
      support that stronger demand a positive for sales
      volume.  Dealer inventories in months of supply ended the year
      slightly higher than a year
earlier. 

Sales volume
      increased in Europe in response to positive economic growth and large
      gains in both nonresidential building and infrastructure
      construction.  These sectors benefited from increased business
      profits, a 13 percent increase in business borrowing and higher government
      capital expenditures.  However, housing permits declined 8
      percent due to higher lending rates for home purchases and some moderation
      in home prices. 

Africa/Middle
      East turned in another year of very positive volume
      growth.  Interest rates changed little over the past year, and
      most stock markets boomed.  Exports increased significantly,
      allowing the region to increase its foreign exchange holdings 22
      percent.  Higher oil prices encouraged increased drilling in
      both Africa and the Middle East, and both Turkey and South Africa
      experienced more than 10 percent growth in
  construction. 

Sales volume
      in the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) increased rapidly for the
      seventh consecutive year, with large gains occurring in Russia, Ukraine
      and Kazakhstan.  All three governments increased spending more
      than 20 percent, and monetary policies were extremely
      expansive.  Regional oil production increased more than 4
      percent, and Russia increased construction 23
  percent. 

Latin
America     
Sales increased $605 million, or 24 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $466 million. 

Price
      realization increased $87 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $52 million. 

Dealers
      reported much higher demand and built inventory to support that
      demand.  Reported inventories increased in dollars but declined
      in months of supply. 

Sales volume
      increased significantly in Brazil, the result of a 200 basis point
      reduction in interest rates and an improvement in economic
      growth.  Better economic growth contributed to an increase of
      about 4 percent in construction spending, and higher metals prices led to
      a 4 percent increase in mine
production. 

A-43   

Most other
      countries raised interest rates slightly, and economic growth was near 5
      percent.  As a result, construction increased 9 percent in
      Chile, 12 percent in both Colombia and Venezuela and 16 percent in
      Peru. 

Mines
      increased exploration spending 38 percent in response to higher metals
      prices and increased production. 

Higher oil
      prices and declining production caused increased drilling, a positive for
      sales volume. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$946 million, or 31 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $677 million. 

Price
      realization increased $157 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $112 million. 

Dealers
      reported higher demand for machines and inventories
      declined.  As a result, inventories in months of supply were
      well below those at the end of
2006. 

Central banks
      kept interest rates low, and many governments increased
      spending.  These developments produced more than 8 percent
      economic growth, and stock markets boomed.  Construction
      increased more than 20 percent in China, 11 percent in India and 9 percent
      in Australia. 

Australian
      thermal coal spot prices increased 30 percent due to continued strong
      demand and supply problems.  Increased coal production and
      prices contributed to a substantial sales gain in
      Indonesia.  China increased coal production 12
      percent. 

Higher metals
      prices and a 56 percent increase in mine exploration spending benefited
      sales volume growth.  Mine production increased almost 11
      percent in Indonesia, 6 percent in India and 5 percent in
      Australia. 

Engines
Sales  

Sales of $13.603
billion were an increase of $796 million, or 6 percent, from 2006. 

Sales volume
      decreased $18 million. 

Price
      realization increased $522 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales $292 million. 

Geographic
      mix between regions (included in price realization) was $29 million
      favorable. 

Dealer
      reported inventories in dollars were up; months of supply were down as the
      inventories were supported by strong delivery
  rates. 

North America    Sales
decreased $848 million, or 14 percent. 

Price
      realization increased $189 million. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications declined 59 percent with less than
      anticipated demand for the 2007 model-year engines.  This was
      due to the reduction in tonnage hauled and freight rates realized by
      on-highway carriers.  This has also been impacted by the
      transition of several Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to the 2007
      emissions technology engines. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 39 percent due to strong demand in gas
      compression and exploration, along with success from gas pipeline and
      storage construction projects.  The increase in turbines and
      turbine-related services reflects additional customer spending for natural
      gas pipelines and compression
equipment. 

Sales for
      electric power applications increased 22 percent as demand for large
      generator sets increased to support data center installations, which
      offset a slight decline in smaller
units. 

EAME    Sales increased $1.181
billion, or 29 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $756 million. 

Price
      realization increased $186 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $239 million. 

Sales for
      electric power applications increased 29 percent, with strong demand for
      gas units in Russia, expanded scope of project business and growth in
      power modules.  Turbines and turbine-related services increased
      to support power generation. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 42 percent based on widespread demand for
      engines used in drilling and production applications.  Turbines
      and turbine-related services increased to support rising oil production
      and gas transmission demand. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 20 percent, with widespread demand for
      agriculture and other types of OEM equipment driven by good economic
      conditions. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 30 percent, with increased demand for
      workboats, commercial oceangoing vessels and cruise
  ships. 

Latin America    Sales
increased $28 million, or 3 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $5 million. 

Price
      realization increased $32 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $1 million. 

Sales for
      electric power engines increased 35 percent from strong growth across
      Latin America, driven by high oil and gas prices and investment in
      infrastructure as energy shortages continued in several key
      markets. 

Sales into
      truck applications declined 44 percent with reduced
      demand.  Latin American truck facilities decreased exports of
      trucks destined for the United
States. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$435 million, or 26 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $297 million. 

Price
      realization increased $86 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $52 million. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 34 percent as Chinese drill rig builders
      continue to manufacture at record levels for domestic and export
      use.  Turbines and turbine-related services increased to support
      oil production and gas pipeline compression
  demand. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 47 percent, with continued strong demand for
      workboat and offshore shipbuilding.  Large diesel demand grew in
      the offshore and general cargo
applications. 

Sales of
      electric power engines increased 6 percent due to shipments of larger
      generator sets into Asia. 

Financial Products
Revenues  

Revenues of $2.996
billion were an increase of $348 million, or 13 percent, from 2006. 

Growth in
      average  earning
      assets  increased revenues $234
million. 

Revenues from
      earned premiums at Cat Insurance increased $64
  million. 

The impact of
      higher interest rates on new and existing finance receivables added $58
      million. 

A-44   

1  

Mostly
      represents external sales of the All Other
  category.  

A-45   

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The
      chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
        Operating
      Profit   between
      2006 (at left) and 2007 (at right).  Items favorably impacting
      operating profit appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding
      dollar amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting operating
      profit appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in
      parentheses above each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes
      these charts internally to visually communicate with the company s Board
      of Directors and employees.  The bar entitled   Consolidating
      Adjustments/M E Other Operating Expense   includes
      the operating profit impact of Progress
      Rail.    

Operating profit in 2007 of $4.921
billion was equal to 2006 as higher price realization and sales volume were
offset by higher core operating costs.  

Core operating costs rose $1.232 billion
from 2006. Of this increase, $1.225 billion was attributable to higher
  manufacturing
costs  .  The
increase in manufacturing costs was primarily due to operating inefficiencies
and higher material costs. Operating inefficiencies were the result of supply
chain challenges, capacity increases, factory repair and maintenance and a
significant decline in on-highway truck engine production.  Also, we
incurred additional costs for new product introductions and costs to enhance
customer-delivered quality.  Wage and benefit increases as well as
increased warranty and depreciation also contributed to higher manufacturing
costs.  In 2007, Selling, General and Administrative (SG A) and
R D expenses were essentially flat with 2006.  The impact of
higher wage and benefit costs was offset by the absence of approximately $70
million of 2006 expense related to a settlement of various legal disputes with
Navistar.  

Currency had a $73 million unfavorable
impact on operating profit as the benefit to sales was more than offset by the
negative impact on costs.  

1  

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business operating profit for Machinery
      and Engines.  

A-46   

Machinery
        operating profit of
      $2.758 billion was down $269 million, or 9 percent, from
      2006.  Higher core operating costs were partially offset by
      improved price realization, higher sales volume and the addition of
      Progress Rail.  The geographic mix of sales had an unfavorable
      impact on price realization.  

Engines   operating profit of $1.826
      billion was up $196 million, or 12 percent, from 2006.  The
      favorable impacts of improved price realization and positive mix of
      product were partially offset by higher core operating costs and the
      unfavorable impacts of currency.  Growth in demand for electric
      power, petroleum, marine and industrial applications more than offset the
      profit decline related to the drop in demand for on-highway truck
      engines.  

Financial Products
       operating profit of $690 million was up $20 million, or 3 percent,
      from 2006.  The increase was primarily attributable to a $42
      million impact from improved net yield on average earning assets and a $34
      million impact from higher average earning assets, partially offset by a
      $29 million increase in the provision for credit losses at Cat Financial
      and a $24 million decrease in operating profit at Cat Insurance due to
      higher claims experience. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Other income/expense  was
      income of $320 million compared with income of $214 million in
      2006.  The change was primarily driven by a $46 million gain on
      the sale of a cost-basis investment, the favorable impacts of currency and
      other items that were individually
  insignificant. 

The provision
      for income taxes   for
      2007 reflects an annual tax rate of 30 percent compared to a 29 percent
      rate in 2006.  The increase over 2006 is primarily due to the
      repeal of Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (ETI) benefits in 2007
      partially offset by a more favorable geographic mix of profits from a tax
      perspective.  

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business financial
  data. 

A-47   

FOURTH QUARTER 2007 COMPARED WITH FOURTH QUARTER 2006  

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The
      chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Sales and Revenues between fourth quarter 2006 (at left) and fourth
      quarter 2007 (at right).  Items favorably impacting sales and
      revenues appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar
      amounts above each bar, while items negatively impacting sales and
      revenues appear as downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in
      parentheses above each bar.  The bar entitled Machinery Volume
      includes the change in Progress Rail sales.  Caterpillar
      management utilizes these charts internally to visually communicate with
      the company s Board of Directors and
  employees.  

Sales and revenues
for fourth quarter 2007 were $12.144 billion, up $1.141 billion, or 10 percent,
from fourth quarter 2006.  Weakness in the U.S. construction market
and volume declines in the on-highway truck engine market were more than offset
by Machinery sales growth outside North America and Engines sales growth in oil
and gas, electric power, industrial and marine markets.  While sales
in North America were down 11 percent, sales outside of North America were up 31
percent. 

In addition, price
realization contributed $392 million.  Currency had a positive impact
on sales of $334 million driven primarily by the stronger
euro.  Financial Products revenues were up 16 percent. 

A-48   

Machinery
Sales  

Sales were $7.460
billion in fourth quarter 2007, an increase of $857 million, or 13 percent, from
fourth quarter 2006. 

Sales volume
      increased $429 million. 

Price
      realization increased $205 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $223 million. 

Geographic
      mix between regions (included in price realization) was $28 million
      unfavorable. 

Reported
      changes in dealer inventories were overall a slight negative for sales
      volume.  Dealers in most regions increased inventories but not
      as much as in fourth quarter 2006. 

As has been
      the case in recent quarters, unfavorable economic factors caused a sizable
      decline in sales volume in North America.  These declines were
      largely the result of weaknesses in housing and nonresidential
      construction.  Coal mining showed some improvement in the fourth
      quarter, and metals, oil and natural gas industries continued to be
      positive. 

Sales volume
      in other regions increased sufficiently to offset the decline in North
      America.  Sales in Europe continued to increase in response to
      good growth in nonresidential
construction. 

Developing
      countries continued to account for most of the sales volume growth outside
      North America.  Brazil s past interest rate cuts have
      strengthened the economy and allowed a significant gain in
      sales.  Russia was another major contributor, with sales
      benefiting from increased investments in energy, metals and
      construction.  Strong sales growth continued in China despite
      reported government actions to slow the
economy. 

Higher oil
      prices contributed to sizable sales growth in a number of oil producing
      countries in Africa/Middle East. 

North America    Sales
decreased $241 million, or 7 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $327 million. 

Price
      realization increased $86 million. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories increased slightly in the fourth quarter, ending three
      quarters of significant reductions.  Dealer inventories at the
      end of the quarter were well below a year earlier in both dollars and
      months of supply. 

The decline
      in sales volume was a result of unfavorable economic conditions in key
      industries.  Output declines prompted users to curtail fleet
      expansions, and dealers added fewer units to their rental
      fleets. 

Housing
      construction was a negative, with starts down 26 percent from a year
      earlier.  The inventory of unsold new homes increased by almost
      three months to more than nine months, and the median new home price
      declined more than 4 percent. 

New contracts
      awarded for nonresidential construction dropped more than 15 percent in
      the fourth quarter, and the number of workers employed in nonresidential
      construction declined almost 1
percent. 

The Central
      Appalachian spot coal price increased almost 17 percent from a year
      earlier, and coal production increased slightly.  Coal exports
      in October, the latest month available, were 28 percent higher than a year
      earlier.  These improvements led to a recovery in sales of some
      products used in coal mining such as large track-type
      tractors. 

Metals prices
      increased more than 30 percent from a year earlier, and crude oil prices
      approached $100 per barrel.  As a result, mining investment,
      pipeline construction and oil sands investment benefited sales
      volumes. 

EAME    Sales increased $569
million, or 32 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $360 million. 

Price
      realization increased $62 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $147 million. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories increased in the fourth quarter; inventories in months of
      supply ended the quarter slightly higher than a year
    earlier. 

In Europe,
      strength in nonresidential construction offset softness in housing
      permits.  The credit crisis forced the European Central Bank to
      inject liquidity and halted plans to raise interest
      rates.  Business sentiment remained sufficiently positive to
      allow higher sales in most key
countries. 

Sales volume
      increased in Africa/Middle East in response to high oil prices, good
      economic growth and increased construction
      activity.  Significant sales growth occurred in South Africa in
      response to a large increase in construction, and there were also
      increases in a number of oil-producing
  countries. 

Sales volume
      also grew significantly in the CIS, largely in Russia.  Sales in
      that country benefited from low interest rates, much higher government
      spending, increased oil production and more coal
      production.  Construction in the fourth quarter increased 19
      percent from the year earlier
quarter. 

Latin America    Sales
increased $187 million, or 29 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $135 million. 

Price
      realization increased $27 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $25 million. 

Dealers
      reported a decline in inventories in the fourth quarter, which took
      inventories in months of supply below a year
  earlier. 

Much of the
      sales volume growth occurred in Brazil.  Sizable interest rate
      reductions over the past two years improved economic growth and
      construction spending.  Mining, particularly iron ore, benefited
      sales. 

Gains
      occurred in other countries in response to more construction or increased
      mining investment. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$342 million, or 40 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $233 million. 

Price
      realization increased $58 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $51 million. 

Dealer-reported
      inventories increased slightly more than a year earlier.  Dollar
      inventories were lower than 2006, so inventories in months of supply were
      well below those at the end of
2006. 

China was the
      largest contributor to sales growth.  Despite numerous actions
      taken to slow the economy, growth continued to be strong and construction
      increased more than 20 percent relative to 2006.  Mining was
      also strong, with coal mining up 9 percent and iron ore production up 8
      percent. 

Indonesia
      reduced interest rates and continued to develop its coal mining industry,
      leading to much higher sales. 

Sizable sales
      volume gains occurred in India.  Positives included rapid
      economic growth, an 11 percent increase in construction and an 8 percent
      increase in mining. 

A-49   

Engines
Sales  

Sales were $3.900
billion in fourth quarter 2007, an increase of $175 million, or 5 percent, from
fourth quarter 2006. 

Sales volume
      decreased $123 million. 

Price
      realization increased $187 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $111 million. 

Geographic
      mix between regions (included in price realization) was $12 million
      favorable. 

Dealer
      reported inventories in dollars were up; months of supply were down as the
      inventories were supported by strong delivery
  rates. 

North America    Sales
decreased $375 million, or 23 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $441 million. 

Price
      realization increased $66 million. 

Sales for
      on-highway truck applications declined 67 percent as the truck industry
      demand for new trucks was down due to the reduction in tonnage hauled and
      freight rates realized by on-highway
carriers. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 37 percent due to strong demand in gas
      compression, which overcame a small reduction in new drill rig build
      rates.  Turbine sales benefited from increased customer spending
      for natural gas pipelines and compression
  equipment. 

Sales for
      industrial applications decreased 21 percent as the demand for small
      construction equipment was adversely affected by the severe decline in the
      U.S. housing market. 

EAME    Sales increased $424
million, or 36 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $268 million. 

Price
      realization increased $68 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $88 million. 

Sales for
      electric power applications increased 46 percent with strong demand for
      medium-sized units selling into Africa/Middle East and
      Russia.  Turbines and turbine-related services increased to
      support power generation. 

Sales for
      industrial applications increased 27 percent with strong demand for
      agriculture and other types of OEM equipment.  This demand has
      been driven by good economic
conditions. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 40 percent with higher demand for workboats,
      commercial oceangoing vessels and cruise
ships. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 27 percent based on strong demand for
      engines used in drilling and production.  Turbine-related
      services increased to support rising oil production and gas transmission
      demand. 

Latin America    Sales
decreased $30 million, or 8 percent. 

Sales volume
      decreased $40 million. 

Price
      realization increased $10 million. 

Sales into
      truck applications declined 58 percent reflecting reduced
      demand.  Latin American truck facilities decreased exports of
      trucks destined for the United
States. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 4 percent as turbine-related services
      increased to support rising oil
production. 

Sales for
      electric power engines decreased 6 percent due to timing of shipments of
      product into Latin America. 

Asia/Pacific    Sales increased
$156 million, or 31 percent. 

Sales volume
      increased $102 million. 

Price
      realization increased $31 million. 

Currency
      benefited sales by $23 million. 

Sales for
      marine applications increased 58 percent, with continued strong demand for
      workboat and offshore shipbuilding.  Large diesel demand grew in
      the offshore and general cargo
industries. 

Sales for
      petroleum applications increased 38 percent as Chinese drill rig builders
      continue to manufacture at record high levels for domestic and export
      use.  Turbines and turbine-related services increased to support
      oil production and natural gas pipeline compression
  demand. 

Sales of
      electric power engines increased 18 percent with the successful launch of
      new medium-sized units and increased demand in
  India. 

Financial Products
Revenues  

Revenues were $784
million in fourth quarter 2007, an increase of $109 million, or 16 percent, from
fourth quarter 2006. 

Growth in
      average earning assets increased revenues $85
  million. 

Revenues from
      earned premiums at Cat Insurance increased $26
  million. 

A-50   

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The
      chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Operating Profit between fourth quarter 2006 (at left) and fourth quarter
      2007 (at right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit
      appear as upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above
      each bar, while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as
      downward stair steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above
      each bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts
      internally to visually communicate with its Board of Directors and
      employees.  The bar titled Consolidating Adjustments/M E
      Other Operating Expense     includes
      the operating profit impact of Progress
  Rail.   

Operating profit in
fourth quarter 2007 increased $109 million, or 10 percent, from 2006, driven by
higher price realization and sales volume, partially offset by increased core
operating costs. 

Core operating
costs rose $296 million from fourth quarter 2006 driven by $355 million of
higher manufacturing costs.  The increase in manufacturing costs was
primarily due to operating inefficiencies, higher material costs and increased
depreciation.  Operating inefficiencies were the result of supply
chain challenges, capacity increases, factory repair and maintenance and costs
to enhance customer delivered quality.  SG A and R D were down
$59 million from fourth quarter 2006.  Lower spending more than offset
the impact of higher wage and benefits. 

Currency had a $24
million unfavorable impact on operating profit, as the benefit to sales was more
than offset by the negative impact on costs. 

1  

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business operating profit for Machinery
      and Engines.  

A-51   

Machinery
        operating profit of
      $619 million was up $40 million, or 7 percent, from fourth quarter
      2006.  Price realization and higher sales volume were partially
      offset by higher core operating
costs.  

Engines   operating profit of $571 million
      was up $69 million, or 14 percent, from fourth quarter
      2006.  The favorable impacts of improved price realization and
      positive mix of product were partially offset by higher core operating
      costs and lower sales
volume.  

Financial Products
       operating profit of $161 million decreased $11 million, or 6
      percent, from fourth quarter 2006. The decrease was primarily attributable
      to an $18 million increase in the provision for credit losses and a $6
      million decrease in miscellaneous revenue items, partially offset by a $14
      million impact from higher average earning assets at Cat
      Financial. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Other income/expense  was
      $88 million of income compared with $49 million of income in fourth
      quarter 2006.  The change was primarily due to the favorable
      impacts of currency and other items that were individually
      insignificant. 

The provision
      for income taxes   in
      the fourth quarter reflects an annual tax rate of 30 percent as compared
      to a 29 percent rate in 2006.  The increase over 2006 is
      primarily due to the repeal of ETI benefits in 2007 offset by a more
      favorable geographic mix of profits from a tax
      perspective.  

A favorable adjustment of $55 million
was recorded this quarter related to the first nine months of 2007 as a result
of a decrease in the estimated annual tax rate from 31.5 to 30 percent,
primarily due to changes in our geographic mix of profits.  This
compares to a favorable adjustment of $75 million in the fourth quarter of
2006.  

2006 COMPARED
WITH 2005   

SALES
AND REVENUES 

The
      chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Sales and Revenues between 2005 (at left) and 2006 (at
      right).  Items favorably impacting sales and revenues appear as
      upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each
      bar.  The bar entitled Machinery Volume includes Progress Rail
      sales.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally
      to visually communicate with the company s Board of Directors and
      employees.  

Sales and revenues
for 2006 were $41.517 billion, up $5.178 billion, or 14 percent, from
2005.  Machinery volume was up $2.081 billion, Engines volume was up
$1.240 billion, price realization improved $1.464 billion and Financial Products
revenues increased $315 million.  In addition, currency had a positive
impact on sales of $78 million. 

A-52   

Machinery sales    of $26.062 billion were
an increase of $3.131 billion, or 14 percent, from 2005. Sales volume increased
$2.081 billion and increased in all geographic regions.Price realization
increased $996 million. Currency benefited sales by $54 million. The acquisition
of Progress Rail added $766 million to sales volume in North America. Excluding
Progress Rail, North America experienced stronger growth in the first half,
which was partially offset by the effects of higher interest rates and lower
housing starts that caused sales volume to weaken during the second half of the
year.Outside North America, economic conditions improved as Europe turned in its
best economic growth since 2000.  Construction and mining were strong
in all regions.Dealers increased inventories in 2006, although at a slower rate
than in 2005, to support higher deliveries.  Dealer inventories in
months of supply were about even with 2005. 

North America  sales
      increased $1.393 billion, or 11 percent. Sales volume increased $771
      million, primarily due to Progress Rail. Price realization increased $622
      million. Housing starts in the United States dropped sharply in the second
      half, causing lower sales of machines used in that
      sector.  While lower mortgage rates revived new home sales late
      in the year, builders continued to cut starts in order to reduce
      inventories of unsold homes. The significant increase in short-term
      interest rates over the past two years somewhat reduced the incentives for
      users to replace machines currently operating in their
      fleets.  As a result, trends in dealer deliveries moderated in
      some still-growing applications such as nonresidential
      construction.  Dealers also added fewer machines to rental
      fleets.  Those developments were more pronounced in the second
      half. Coal mines increased production to a record high in the second
      quarter but reduced output in the second half of the
      year.  Electric utilities cut coal consumption, and coal stocks
      increased to cause a decline in spot prices.  Lower coal prices
      and some reported delays in securing mine permits caused a decline in
      dealer-reported deliveries to coal mines. Metals mines increased
      exploration spending 38 percent in 2006 in response to favorable metals
      prices, and highway contracts awarded, net of inflation, increased 7
      percent.  As a result, dealer-reported deliveries of machines in
      metal mining and highway applications increased. Dealer-reported
      inventories declined slightly in the last half of 2006, reversing the
      pattern of the past three years.  However, dealer inventories in
      months of supply ended the year higher than at the end of
      2005. 

EAME  sales increased
      $1.001 billion, or 19 percent. Sales volume increased $884 million. Price
      realization increased $102 million. Currency benefited sales by $15
      million. Volume improved in Europe, Africa/Middle East and the
      Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).  Dealers reported
      higher deliveries and increased their inventories to support that
      growth.  Reported inventories in months of supply were lower
      than at the end of 2005. Sales in the CIS increased for the sixth
      consecutive year, reaching a record high. Sales in Europe benefited from
      better economic growth in the Euro-zone economies and a recovery in
      construction. Higher home prices and readily available credit led to an
      increase in building permits.  Sales increased in the central
      European countries in response to rapid growth in
      construction.  Sales increased significantly in Africa/Middle
      East for the third consecutive year.  High energy and metals
      prices have driven increased investment in those industries and
      contributed to construction booms. Construction increased more than 10
      percent in both Turkey and South
Africa. 

Latin America  sales
      increased $562 million, or 28 percent. Sales volume increased $365
      million. Price realization increased $165 million. Currency benefited
      sales by $32 million. Dealers reported higher deliveries to end users and
      increased inventories to support that growth.  Reported
      inventories in months of supply were lower than a year earlier. Sales
      increased in most countries in the region, the result of higher commodity
      prices, increased mine production and rapid growth in construction.
      Interest rates in Brazil declined 475 basis points during the year,
      reaching the lowest levels in at least 20 years. Lower rates helped
      improve the economy, leading to an increase in
  sales. 

Asia/Pacific  sales
      increased $175 million, or 6 percent. Sales volume increased $61 million.
      Price realization increased $107 million.  Currency
      benefited sales by $7 million. Dealers reported increased deliveries but
      reduced their inventories.  As a result, inventories in months
      of supply were well below a year earlier. The largest sales gain occurred
      in China, the result of significant increases in construction and mining.
      Sales also increased sharply in Australia, benefiting from an increase in
      construction spending. While mine production declined, exploration
      expenditures increased 26 percent. Sales in India continued to grow for
      the fifth consecutive year due to increases in construction and
      mining.  Sales in Indonesia were down significantly in 2006,
      although the rate of decline diminished as the year
      progressed.  

A-53   

Engine sales  of $12.807
billion were an increase of $1.732 billion, or 16 percent, from 2005. Sales
volume increased $1.240 billion. Price realization increased $468 million.
Currency impact benefited sales by $24 million. Worldwide, and for most
geographic regions and industries, dealer-reported inventories were up.
Inventories in months of supply decreased slightly. Sales benefited particularly
from widespread strength in petroleum applications for reciprocating engines,
turbines and turbine-related services as strong demand and limited reserve
capacity drove continued industry investment.  

North America  sales
      increased $1.053 billion, or 22 percent. Sales volume increased $841
      million. Price realization increased $212 million. Sales for petroleum
      applications increased 44 percent with continued strong demand for
      reciprocating engines for drilling and compression as well as turbines and
      turbine-related services for pipelines. Sales for on-highway truck
      applications increased 16 percent as industry demand strengthened in
      advance of the 2007 emissions change. Sales for electric power
      applications increased 13 percent supported by technology applications and
      nonresidential construction. Sales for industrial applications increased
      22 percent with widespread strong demand for various types of industrial
      Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) equipment. Sales for marine
      applications remained about flat with increased workboat sales mostly
      offset by reduced pleasure craft
demand. 

EAME  sales increased
      $406 million, or 11 percent. Sales volume increased $237 million. Price
      realization increased $149 million. Currency impact benefited sales by $20
      million. Sales for electric power applications increased 8 percent
      supported by developing region demand from high commodity prices. Sales
      for marine applications increased 21 percent with continued strength in
      shipbuilding. Sales for petroleum applications increased 16 percent,
      primarily from turbine demand for oil production and gas transmission.
      Sales for industrial applications remained about
  flat. 

Latin America  sales
      increased $80 million, or 8 percent. Sales volume increased $46 million.
      Price realization increased $34 million. Sales for electric power engines
      increased 25 percent from growth in commercial development and increased
      investment in standby generator sets to support business operations. Sales
      for petroleum engines declined 10 percent with all of the decline driven
      by nonrecurring projects to support increased oil production. Sales for
      industrial engines increased 55 percent with increased demand for
      agricultural equipment. Sales for on-highway truck engines increased 30
      percent with continued increased demand for trucks and strong market
      acceptance of Caterpillar engines. Sales for marine engines increased 50
      percent from ongoing strength in workboat
  demand. 

Asia/Pacific  sales
      increased $193 million, or 13 percent. Sales volume increased $116
      million. Price realization increased $73 million. Currency impact
      benefited sales by $4 million. Sales for petroleum applications increased
      22 percent with continued growth in demand for drill rigs as well as
      turbines and turbine-related services in Southeast Asia. Sales for
      electric power applications increased 10 percent from demand for
      manufacturing support. Sales for marine applications increased 15 percent
      with continued growth in demand for oceangoing and workboat vessels. Sales
      for industrial applications increased 6 percent with increased demand for
      various types of industrial OEM
equipment. 

Financial Products revenues  of
$2.648 billion were an increase of $315 million, or 14 percent, from 2005.
Growth in average earning assets increased revenues $178 million. The impact of
higher interest rates on new and existing finance receivables at Cat Financial
added $123 million. There was a $14 million increase in other revenues,
primarily due to an increase in earned premiums at Cat
Insurance. 

A-54   

OPERATING
PROFIT 

The
      chart above graphically illustrates reasons for the change in Consolidated
      Operating Profit between 2005 (at left) and 2006 (at
      right).  Items favorably impacting operating profit appear as
      upward stair steps with the corresponding dollar amounts above each bar,
      while items negatively impacting operating profit appear as downward stair
      steps with dollar amounts reflected in parentheses above each
      bar.  Caterpillar management utilizes these charts internally to
      visually communicate with the company s Board of Directors and
      employees.  The bar entitled Consolidating Adjustments/M E
      Other Operating Expense includes the operating profit impact of Progress
      Rail.  

Operating profit in 2006 improved $1.137
billion, or 30 percent from last year, driven by higher price realization and
sales volume, partially offset by higher core operating
costs.  

Core operating costs rose $1.261 billion
from 2005.  Of this increase, $650 million was attributable to higher
manufacturing costs.  Manufacturing costs include both period and
variable costs associated with building our products.  The increase in
manufacturing costs was split about evenly between   period
costs   and variable costs.
The increase in period manufacturing costs was primarily attributable to costs
to support increased volume.  This includes capacity increases,
machine tool repair and maintenance, facility support and growth of our
Logistics business.  The increase in variable manufacturing costs was
due to variable inefficiencies and higher material
costs.  Non-manufacturing core operating costs were up $611 million as
a result of higher Selling, General and Administrative (SG A) and Research
and Development (R D) expenses to support significant new product programs
as well as order fulfillment/velocity initiatives.  2006 SG A
expense includes approximately $70 million related to a settlement of various
legal disputes with Navistar.  

1  

Caterpillar
      operations are highly integrated; therefore, the company uses a number of
      allocations to determine lines of business operating profit for Machinery
      and Engines.  

A-55   

Machinery  operating
      profit of $3.027 billion was up $596 million, or 25 percent, from
      2005.  The favorable impact of improved price realization and
      higher sales volume was largely offset by higher core operating
      costs.  

Engines  operating profit
      of $1.630 billion was up $559 million, or 52 percent, from
      2005.  The favorable impact of improved price realization and
      higher sales volume was partially offset by higher core operating costs,
      which included expense related to a settlement of various legal disputes
      with Navistar. 

Financial Products
       operating profit of $670 million was up $139 million, or 26
      percent, from 2005.  The increase was primarily due to $86
      million from continued growth of average earning assets and a $77 million
      impact from improved net yield on average earning assets at Cat
      Financial. 

OTHER
PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 

Other income/expense  was
      income of $214 million compared with income of $377 million in
      2005.  The decrease was primarily due to the unfavorable impact
      of currency. 

The provision for income taxes
       in 2006 reflects an annual tax rate of 29 percent compared to 29.5
      percent in 2005 (excluding discrete items discussed below). The decrease
      is primarily due to a change in our geographic mix of profits and
      increased benefits recognized for the research and development credit and
      domestic production activities deduction more than offsetting the impact
      of the phase-out provision of the American Jobs Creation Act permitting
      only 60 percent of Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (ETI) benefits in
      2006. 

The provision
      for income taxes for 2006 also includes a discrete benefit of $5 million
      for net changes in tax reserves. Favorable settlement of a non-U.S. tax
      issue resulted in a $25 million decrease in reserves. This was partially
      offset by a $20 million increase in tax reserves for an expected IRS
      assessment, related to transfer pricing adjustments for tax years 1992 to
      1994, which we plan to continue to dispute. The provision for income taxes
      for 2005 included a $31 million discrete
  benefit. 

Progress Rail Services,
Inc.  

In June 2006,
Caterpillar acquired 100 percent of the equity in privately held Progress Rail
Services, Inc. (Progress Rail) for approximately $1 billion, including the
assumption of $200 million in debt. Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail
is a leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products
and services to the North American railroad industry. The company also has one
of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North America. When
acquired, Progress Rail operated more than 90 facilities in 29 states in the
United States, Canada and Mexico, with about 3,700 employees. Expansion into the
railroad aftermarket business is a strong fit with our strategic direction and
will leverage Caterpillar's remanufacturing capabilities. 

The transaction was
financed with available cash and commercial paper borrowings of $427 million and
Caterpillar stock of $379 million (5.3 million shares). Net tangible assets
acquired, recorded at their fair values, primarily were inventories of $257
million, receivables of $169 million and property, plant and equipment of $260
million. Liabilities acquired, recorded at their fair values, primarily
consisted of assumed debt of $200 million, accounts payable of $148 million and
net deferred tax liabilities of $115 million. Finite-lived intangible assets
acquired of $223 million related primarily to customer relationships are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over 20 years. Goodwill of $431 million,
non-deductible for income tax purposes, represents the excess of cost over the
fair value of net tangible and finite-lived intangible assets acquired. The
results of the acquired business for the period from the acquisition date are
included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and reported in
the  All Other  category in Note 24. Assuming this transaction had been made at
the beginning of any period presented, the consolidated pro forma results would
not be materially different from reported results. 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS   

1.  

Cat Production
      System (CPS)     The
      Caterpillar Production System is the common Order-to-Delivery process
      being implemented enterprise-wide to achieve our safety, quality,
      velocity, earnings and growth goals for 2010 and
      beyond.  

2.  

Consolidating
      Adjustments    
      Eliminations of transactions between Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products.  

3.  

Core Operating
      Costs     Machinery and
      Engines variable manufacturing cost change [adjusted for volume] and
      changes in period manufacturing costs, SG A expenses and R D
      expenses.  Excludes the impact of currency.  Due to
      the adoption of FAS 123R in 2006, the 2006 vs. 2005 change in core
      operating costs also excludes stock based compensation
      expense.  

4.  

Currency     With respect to sales and
      revenues, currency represents the translation impact on sales resulting
      from changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S.
      dollar.  With respect to operating profit, currency represents
      the net translation impact on sales and operating costs resulting from
      changes in foreign currency exchange rates versus the U.S.
      dollar.  Currency includes the impacts on sales and operating
      profit for the Machinery and Engines lines of business only; currency
      impacts on Financial Products revenues and operating profit are included
      in the Financial Products portions of the respective
      analyses.  With respect to other income/expense, currency
      represents the effects of forward and option contracts entered into by the
      company to reduce the risk of fluctuations in exchange rates and the net
      effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our foreign
      currency assets and liabilities for consolidated
      results.  

5.  

Debt to Capital
      Ratio     A key measure
      of financial strength used by both management and our credit rating
      agencies.  The metric is a ratio of Machinery and Engines debt
      (short-term borrowings plus long-term debt) to the sum of Machinery and
      Engines debt and stockholders' equity.  

6.  

EAME     Geographic region including
      Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Commonwealth of Independent States
      (CIS).  

7.  

Earning
      Assets     Assets
      consisting primarily of total finance receivables net of unearned income,
      plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation at Cat
      Financial.  

8.  

Engines
          A principal line of
      business including the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of engines
      for Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation systems; on-highway
      vehicles and locomotives; marine, petroleum, construction, industrial,
      agricultural and other applications; and related parts.  Also
      includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and a variety of
      Caterpillar machine and engine components and remanufacturing services for
      other companies.  Reciprocating engines meet power needs ranging
      from 5 to 21,500 horsepower (4 to over 16 000
      kilowatts).  Turbines range from 1,600 to 20,500 horsepower (1
      200 to 15 000 kilowatts).  

A-56   

9.  

Financial
      Products     A
      principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial
      Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings, Inc.
      (Cat Insurance), Caterpillar Power Ventures Corporation (Cat Power
      Ventures) and their respective subsidiaries.  Cat Financial
      provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and dealers
      for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well as other
      equipment and marine vessels.  Cat Financial also extends loans
      to customers and dealers.  Cat Insurance provides various forms
      of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the purchase and
      lease of our equipment.  Cat Power Ventures is an investor in
      independent power projects using Caterpillar power generation equipment
      and services.  

10.  

Latin
      America     Geographic
      region including Central and South American countries and
      Mexico.  

11.  

Machinery     A principal line of business
      which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of
      construction, mining and forestry machinery track and wheel tractors,
      track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel
      tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log
      skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving
      products, skid steer loaders and related parts. Also includes logistics
      services for other companies and the design, manufacture, remanufacture,
      maintenance and services of rail-related products.  

12.  

Machinery and
      Engines (M E)    
      Due to the highly integrated nature of operations, it represents the
      aggregate total of the Machinery and Engines lines of business and
      includes primarily our manufacturing, marketing and parts distribution
      operations.  

13.  

Manufacturing
      Costs     Manufacturing
      costs exclude the impacts of currency and represent the volume-adjusted
      change for variable costs and the absolute dollar change for period
      manufacturing costs.  Variable manufacturing costs are defined
      as having a direct relationship with the volume of
      production.  This includes material costs, direct labor and
      other costs that vary directly with production volume such as freight,
      power to operate machines and supplies that are consumed in the
      manufacturing process.  Period manufacturing costs support
      production but are defined as generally not having a direct relationship
      to short-term changes in volume.  Examples include machinery and
      equipment repair, depreciation on manufacturing assets, facility support,
      procurement, factory scheduling, manufacturing planning and operations
      management.  Due to the adoption of FAS 123R in 2006, the 2006
      vs. 2005 change in core operating cost also excludes stock based
      compensation expense.  

14.  

M E Other
      Operating Expenses         Comprised primarily of gains
      (losses) on disposal of long-lived assets, long-lived asset impairment
      charges and impairment of goodwill.  

15.  

Operating
      Profit     Sales and
      revenues minus operating costs.  

16.  

Period Costs  
        Comprised of
      Machinery and Engines period manufacturing costs, SG A expense and
      R D expense.  Period costs exclude the impacts of
      currency.  Due to the adoption of FAS 123R in 2006, the 2006 vs.
      2005 change in period costs also excludes stock based compensation
      expense.  

17.  

Price
      Realization     The
      impact of net price changes excluding currency and new product
      introductions.  Consolidated price realization includes the
      impact of changes in the relative weighting of sales between geographic
      regions.  

18.  

Profit  
        Consolidated profit
      before taxes less provision for income taxes plus equity in profit (loss)
      of unconsolidated affiliated companies.  

19.  

Sales
      Volume     With respect
      to sales and revenues, sales volume represents the impact of changes in
      the quantities sold for machinery and engines as well as the incremental
      revenue impact of new product introductions.  With respect to
      operating profit, sales volume represents the impact of changes in the
      quantities sold for machinery and engines combined with product mix the
      net operating profit impact of changes in the relative weighting of
      machinery and engines sales with respect to total
      sales.  

20.  

6 Sigma  
        On a technical level,
      6 Sigma represents a measure of variation that achieves 3.4 defects per
      million opportunities.  At Caterpillar, 6 Sigma represents a
      much broader cultural philosophy to drive continuous improvement
      throughout the value chain.  It is a fact-based, data-driven
      methodology that we are using to improve processes, enhance quality, cut
      costs, grow our business and deliver greater value to our customers
      through Black Belt-led project teams.  At Caterpillar, 6 Sigma
      goes beyond mere process improvement it has become the way we work as
      teams to process business information, solve problems and manage our
      business successfully.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Sources
of funds 

                    We generate our
capital resources primarily through operations.  Operating cash flows
increased to $7.94 billion in 2007 from $5.80 billion in 2006. The significant
increase of $2.14 billion is primarily the result of a $1.05 billion improvement
from receivables and a $644 million decrease in taxes paid.  The
receivable change is largely due to the timing of collections of North American
sales.  See further discussion under Machinery and Engines and
Financial Products. We anticipate that the majority of future capital resource
requirements will be funded by operating cash flow, which is largely sourced
from profits. See our Outlook on page A-69. 

Total debt as of
December 31, 2007, was $28.43 billion, an increase of
$1.13 billion from year-end 2006.  Debt related to Machinery and
Engines decreased $271 million.  Debt related to Financial Products
increased $1.40 billion due to continued growth at Cat
Financial. 

We have three
global credit facilities with a syndicate of banks totaling $6.55 billion
available in the aggregate to both Machinery and Engines and Financial Products
to support commercial paper programs.  Based on management s
allocation decision, which can be revised at anytime, the portion of the credit
facilities allocated to Cat Financial was $5.55 billion at December 31,
2007.  During 2007, the five-year facility of $1.62 billion, which was
scheduled to expire in September 2010, was extended and will expire September
2012.  The five-year facility of $2.98 billion has not changed and
will expire September 2011.  The 364-day facility was increased from
$1.85 billion to $1.95 billion and will expire in September 2008.  The
facility expiring in September 2008 has a provision that allows Caterpillar or
Cat Financial to obtain a one-year loan in September 2008 that would mature in
September 2009.  Each of the facilities includes one or more
sub-facilities that allow one or more specified subsidiaries of Cat Financial to
borrow in certain non-U.S. dollar currencies. The overall increase of $100
million to the global credit facilities was initiated in order to support the
growth in total sales and revenues.  At December 31, 2007, there
were no borrowings under these lines and we were in compliance with all debt
covenants. 

A-57   

Our total credit
commitments as of December 31, 2007 were: 

To maintain an
alternative funding source, Cat Financial periodically (generally once a year)
securitizes retail (customer) installment sale contracts and finance leases. In
this process, these finance receivables are sold into a public asset-backed
securitization trust. The trusts, bankruptcy remote qualified special purpose
entities (QSPEs) that are not consolidated in our financial statements, held
total assets of $1.16 billion related to these securitizations at year-end
2007. We use QSPEs in a manner consistent with conventional practices in the
securitization industry to isolate these finance receivables, which are secured
by new and used equipment, for the benefit of securitization investors. Our
sensitivity analysis indicated that the impact of a 20 percent adverse
change to all individual assumptions used to calculate the fair value of all our
retained interests at December 31, 2007 would be $2 million or
less. 

The use of the
QSPEs enables us to access the U.S. securitization market for the sale of these
types of financial assets. The amounts of funding from securitizations reflect
such factors as capital market accessibility, relative costs of funding sources
and assets available for securitization. We had cash proceeds from initial sales
of these receivables of $650 million and $947 million, and recognized
a pre-tax gain of $4 million and $7 million for 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Subordinated retained interests in public securitizations totaled
$49 million and $68 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. 

Machinery
and Engines 

                    Operating cash
flows increased to $5.45 billion in 2007 from $4.61 billion in
2006.  The favorable change is primarily the result of a decrease in
taxes paid.  Another significant operating item in 2007 is the
continued increase in customer advances, which was driven by higher turbine and
large reciprocating engine orders.  The increases in operating cash
flows were partially offset by increases in inventory as we continue to have
challenges with certain elements of our supply base meeting high production
levels resulting in inefficiencies.  We continue to focus on improving
the flow of quality product with the implementation of the Caterpillar
Production System. 

                     Our priorities for
the use of cash are to maintain a strong financial position, fund profitable
growth, maintain well-funded pension plans, consistently increase dividends and
repurchase common stock. 

Maintain
a strong financial position   -   A key measure of Machinery and Engines
financial strength used by both management and our credit rating agencies is
Machinery and Engines  debt to capital ratio.  Debt to capital is
defined as short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, and
long-term debt due after one year (debt) divided by the sum of debt and
stockholders  equity.  Debt also includes borrowings from Financial
Products.  At December 31, 2007, Machinery and Engines debt to capital
ratio was 31.2 percent compared to 38.6 percent at December 31,
2006.  This favorable change is the result of record operating cash
flows over the past three years.  

Fund
profitable growth   -   Capital expenditures during 2007 were
$1.68 billion, an increase of $103 million compared to 2006.  The
increase is primarily to replace and upgrade existing production assets, support
new product programs and facilitate additional expansion of manufacturing
capacity.   Cash used for acquisitions (net of cash acquired)
was $244 million, primarily for the purchase of Franklin Power Products, Inc.
and International Fuel Systems, Inc. and Blount International s Forestry
Division. 

Maintain
well-funded pension plans   -   Pension plans remain well funded and we
have adequate liquidity to fund both U.S. and non-U.S. plans.  Our
pension plans were 93% funded at year-end 2007.  

Consistently
increase dividends   -  Dividends
paid totaled $845 million for 2007, representing 30 cents per share paid in the
first two quarters and 36 cents per share paid in the third and fourth
quarters.  2007 marks the fourteenth consecutive year our annual
dividend per share has increased. 

Repurchase
common stock   -  Pursuant to
the stock repurchase program authorized by the Board of Directors in
October 2003, which was completed in April of 2007, and the new stock
repurchase program approved in February 2007,  $2.41 billion was
spent to purchase 33.5 million shares in 2007.  In August of
2007, the Board of Directors approved the use of derivative contracts for stock
repurchases under the current stock repurchase program.  There were
624 million shares outstanding at the end of 2007. 

Financial
Products 

                    Financial Products
2007 operating cash flow was $1.09 billion compared to $1.01 billion in
2006.  Net cash used for investing activities in 2007 was $1.24
billion compared to $1.19 billion in 2006.  This moderate increase is
due to continued retail portfolio growth, partially offset by decreases in North
American trade receivables purchased by Cat Financial.  Net cash
provided by financing activities in 2007 was approximately the same as
2006. 

Financial Products
total borrowings were $24.42 billion at December 31, 2007, an increase
of $1.40 billion from December 31, 2006.  Debt repayment in
Financial Products depends primarily on timely repayment and collectibility of
the receivables portfolio.  At December 31, 2007, finance
receivables past due over 30 days were 2.36 percent, compared with
1.71 percent at December 31, 2006. The allowance for credit
losses was 1.39 percent of finance receivables, net of unearned income, at
December 31, 2007, compared to 1.33 percent at December 31, 2006.
Receivables written off due to uncollectibility, net of recoveries on
receivables previously written off, were $68 million and $47 million
for 2007 and 2006, respectively.  The increase in past dues and
write-offs primarily relate to the downturn in the U.S. housing industry.
Although past dues and write-offs have increased from 2006, by historical
standards, Cat Financial s portfolio continues to perform well and has not been
significantly impacted by the downturn in global credit markets.  Due
to Caterpillar s strong credit rating, Cat Financial was able to maintain normal
operations and fund all their needs during 2007. 

A-58   

Contractual
obligations 

The company
      has committed cash outflow related to long-term debt, operating lease
      agreements, postretirement obligations, purchase obligations, interest on
      long-term debt and other long-term contractual obligations. Minimum
      payments for these obligations are: 

1  

Amounts
      represent expected contributions to our pension and other postretirement
      benefit plans through 2017, offset by expected Medicare Part D
      subsidy receipts. 

2  

Amount
      represents invoices received and recorded as liabilities in 2007, but
      scheduled for payment in 2008. These represent short-term obligations made
      in the ordinary course of business. 

3  

Amount
      represents contractual obligations for material and services on order at
      December 31, 2007 but not yet delivered. These represent short-term
      obligations made in the ordinary course of business. 

4  

Amounts
      represent long-term commitments entered into with key suppliers for
      minimum purchases quantities. 

5  

Amounts
      represent estimated contractual interest payments on long-term
      debt. 

6  

Amounts
      represent contractual obligations primarily related to software license
      contracts, IT consulting contracts and outsourcing contracts for benefit
      plan administration and software system
support. 

We adopted FIN 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  as of January 1,
2007.  The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits for
uncertain tax positions, including positions impacting only the timing of tax
benefits, was $703 million at December 31, 2007.  Payment of these
obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. Due to the
difficulty in determining the timing of settlements, FIN 48 obligations are not
included in the table above.  We do not expect a significant tax
payment related to these obligations within the next year. 

A-59   

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported
amounts. The more significant estimates include: residual values for leased
assets, fair market values for goodwill impairment tests, warranty liability,
stock-based compensation, reserves for product liability and insurance losses,
postretirement benefits, post-sale discounts, credit losses and income taxes. We
have incorporated many years of data into the determination of each of these
estimates and we have not historically experienced significant adjustments.
These assumptions are reviewed at least annually with the Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors. Following are the methods and assumptions used in
determining our estimates and an indication of the risks inherent in
each. 

Residual values for leased
assets  The residual values for Cat Financial s leased assets, which are
based upon the estimated wholesale market value of leased equipment at the time
of the expiration of the lease, represent a careful analysis of historical
wholesale market sales prices, projected forward on a level trend line without
consideration for inflation or possible future pricing action.  At the
inception of the lease, residual values are derived from consideration of the
following critical factors: market size and demand, any known significant
market/product trends, total expected hours of usage, machine configuration,
application, location, model changes, quantities and past re-marketing
experience, third party residual guarantees and contractual customer purchase
options.  During the term of the leases, residual amounts are
monitored.  If estimated market values reflect a non-temporary
impairment due to economic factors, obsolescence or other adverse circumstances,
the residuals are adjusted to the lower estimated values by a charge to
earnings.  For equipment on operating leases, the charge is recognized
through depreciation expense.  For finance leases, it is recognized
through a reduction of finance revenue. 

Fair market values for goodwill
impairment tests   We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever
events or circumstances make it likely that an impairment may have occurred,
such as a significant adverse change in the business climate or a decision to
sell all or a portion of a reporting unit. 

Determining whether
an impairment has occurred requires valuation of the respective reporting unit,
which we estimate using a discounted five year forecasted cash flow with a
year-five residual value based upon a comparative market Earnings Before
Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) multiple.  The
assumptions about future cash flows are based on the reporting unit s long-term
forecast and are subject to review and approval of our senior management. The
market EBITDA multiple is based on recent market transactions in the reporting
unit s industry.  The estimated fair value could be impacted by
changes in interest rates, growth rates, costs, pricing, capital expenditures
and market conditions.    

Warranty liability   At the
time a sale is recognized, we record estimated future warranty
costs.  The warranty liability is determined by applying historical
claim rate experience to the current field population and dealer
inventory.  Generally, historical claim rates are based on actual
warranty experience for each product by machine model/engine
size.  Specific rates are developed for each product build month and
are updated monthly based on actual warranty claim
experience.  Warranty costs may differ from those estimated if actual
claim rates are higher or lower than our historical rates. 

Stock-based compensation   We
use a lattice-based option-pricing model to calculate the fair value of our
stock option and SARs.  The calculation of the fair value of the
awards using the lattice-based option-pricing model is affected by our stock
price on the date of grant as well as assumptions regarding the
following: 

Volatility is
      a measure of the amount by which the stock price is expected to fluctuate
      each year during the expected life of the award and is based on historical
      and current implied volatilities from traded options on Caterpillar stock.
      The implied volatilities from traded options are impacted by changes in
      market conditions.  An increase in the volatility would result
      in an increase in our expense. 

The expected
      term represents the period of time that awards granted are expected to be
      outstanding and is an output of the lattice-based option-pricing model. In
      determining the expected term of the award, future exercise and forfeiture
      patterns are estimated from Caterpillar employee historical exercise
      behavior.  These patterns are also affected by the vesting
      conditions of the award.  Changes in the future exercise
      behavior of employees or in the vesting period of the award could result
      in a change in the expected term.  An increase in the expected
      term would result in an increase to our
expense. 

The
      weighted-average dividend yield is based on Caterpillar's historical
      dividend yields.  As holders of stock-based awards do not
      receive dividend payments, this could result in employees retaining the
      award for a longer period of time if dividend yields decrease or
      exercising the award sooner if dividend yields increase.  A
      decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our
      expense. 

The risk-free
      interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at time
      of grant.  As the risk-free interest rate increases, the
      expected term increases, resulting in an increase in our
      expense. 

The fair value of
our RSUs is determined by reducing the stock price on the date of grant by the
present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting period.
The estimated dividends are based on Caterpillar s weighted-average dividend
yields. A decrease in the dividend yield would result in an increase in our
expense. 

Stock-based
compensation expense recognized during the period is based on the value of the
number of awards that are expected to vest.  In determining the
stock-based compensation expense to be recognized, a forfeiture rate is applied
to the fair value of the award.  This rate represents the number of
awards that are expected to be forfeited prior to vesting and is based on
Caterpillar employee historical behavior.  Changes in the future
behavior of employees could impact this rate.  A decrease in this rate
would result in an increase in our expense. 

Product liability and insurance loss
reserve  Determined based upon reported claims in process of settlement
and actuarial estimates for losses incurred but not reported. Loss reserves,
including incurred but not reported reserves, are based on estimates and
ultimate settlements may vary significantly from such estimates due to increased
claims frequency or severity over historical levels. 

A-60   

Postretirement
benefits  Primary actuarial assumptions were determined as
follows: 

The U.S.
      expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on our estimate
      of long-term passive returns for equities and fixed income securities
      weighted by the allocation of our plan assets. Based on historical
      performance, we increase the passive returns due to our active management
      of the plan assets. A similar process is used to determine the rate for
      our non-U.S. pension plans. This rate is impacted by changes in general
      market conditions, but because it represents a long-term rate, it is not
      significantly impacted by short-term market swings. Changes in our
      allocation of plan assets would also impact this rate. For example, a
      shift to more fixed income securities would lower the rate. A decrease in
      the rate would increase our
expense. 

The assumed
      discount rate is used to discount future benefit obligations back to
      today's dollars. The U.S. discount rate is based on the Moody's Aa bond
      yield as of our measurement date, November 30, and represents the
      rate at which our benefit obligations could effectively be settled. To
      validate the discount rate, a detailed analysis of the individual plans'
      expected cash flows is made annually. This involves analyzing
      Caterpillar's projected cash flows against a high quality bond yield
      curve, calculated using a wide population of corporate Aa bonds. The
      modeled discount rate that results from matching the aggregate expected
      future cash flow from the Caterpillar benefit plans to the yield curve of
      high quality corporate bonds is consistent with the annualized Moody's Aa
      rate. A comprehensive process is also used to determine the assumed
      discount rate for our non-U.S. plans. This rate is sensitive to changes in
      interest rates. A decrease in the discount rate would increase our
      obligation and expense. 

The expected
      rate of compensation increase is used to develop benefit obligations using
      projected pay at retirement. It represents average long-term salary
      increases. This rate is influenced by our long-term compensation policies.
      An increase in the rate would increase our obligation and
      expense. 

The assumed
      health care trend rate represents the rate at which health care costs are
      assumed to increase and is based on historical and expected experience.
      Changes in our projections of future health care costs due to general
      economic conditions and those specific to health care (e.g. technology
      driven cost changes) will impact this trend rate. An increase in the trend
      rate would increase our obligation and
expense. 

Post-sale discount reserve  We
provide discounts to dealers and original equipment manufacturers (OEM) through
merchandising programs that are administered by our marketing profit
centers.  We have numerous programs that are designed to promote the
sale of our products.  The most common dealer programs provide a
discount when the dealer sells a product to a targeted end user.  OEM
programs provide discounts designed to encourage the use of our engines. The
cost of discounts is estimated based on historical experience and planned
changes in merchandising programs and is reported as a reduction to sales when
the product sale is recognized.  The amount of accrued post-sale
discounts was $669 million,  $726 million and $616 million as of
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  The reserve
represents discounts that we expect to pay on previously sold units and is
reviewed at least quarterly.  The reserve is adjusted if discounts
paid differ from those estimated.  Historically, those adjustments
have not been material. 

Credit loss
reserve  Management's ongoing evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance
for credit losses considers both impaired and unimpaired finance receivables and
takes into consideration past loss experience, known and inherent risks in the
portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay,
estimated value of underlying collateral and current economic conditions. In
estimating probable losses we review accounts that are past due, non-performing,
in bankruptcy or otherwise identified as at risk for potential credit loss.
Accounts are identified as at risk for potential credit loss using information
available about the customer, such as financial statements, news reports, and
published credit ratings as well as general information regarding industry
trends and the general economic environment. 

The allowance for
credit losses attributable to specific accounts is based on the most probable
source of repayment, which is normally the liquidation of collateral. In
determining collateral value we estimate current fair market value of collateral
and factor in credit enhancements such as additional collateral and third party
guarantees. The allowance for credit losses attributable to the remaining
accounts is a general allowance based upon the risk in the portfolio, primarily
using probabilities of default and an estimate of associated losses. In addition
qualitative factors not able to be fully captured in previous analysis including
industry trends, macroeconomic factors and model imprecision are considered in
the evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses. These
qualitative factors are subjective and require a degree of management
judgment. 

While management
believes it has exercised prudent judgment and applied reasonable assumptions
which have resulted in an allowance presented in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, there can be no assurance that in the future,
changes in economic conditions or other factors might cause changes in the
financial health of our customers which could change the timing and level of
payments received thus necessitating a change to our estimated
losses. 

Income tax reserve   Despite
our belief that our tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax
laws, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged by taxing
authorities. Settlement of any challenge can result in no change, a complete
disallowance, or some partial adjustment reached through negotiations or
litigation. Our tax reserves reflect the difference between the tax benefit
claimed on tax returns and the amount recognized in financial statements in
accordance with FIN 48.  FIN 48 requires that tax benefits recognized
in the financial statements must be at least more likely than not of being
sustained based on technical merits.  The amount of benefit recorded
for these positions is measured as the largest benefit more likely than not to
be sustained.   Significant judgment is required in making these
determinations.  As the examination process progresses with tax
authorities, adjustments to tax reserves may be necessary to reflect taxes
payable upon settlement.  Tax reserve adjustments related to positions
impacting the effective tax rate affect the provision for income
taxes.  Tax reserve adjustments related to positions impacting the
timing of deductions impact deferred tax assets and liabilities. 

A-61   

EMPLOYMENT  

Caterpillar s worldwide employment was
101,333 in 2007, up 6,470 from 94,593 in 2006.  Of the increase, about
3,400 employees were added via acquisitions, and about 1,800 hourly and 1,500
salaried and management employees were added to support higher volumes, growth
and new product introductions.  

OTHER MATTERS  

Environmental and Legal
Matters  

The company is
regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our
use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition
to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the
development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance
with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines.
Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital
expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in
remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies,
pursuant to federal and state laws.  When it is reasonably probable we
will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated,
the costs are charged against our earnings.  In formulating that
estimate, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance
companies or others.  The amount recorded for environmental
remediation is not material and is included in  Accrued Expenses  in Statement
2. 

We cannot
reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of
remediation.  Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages
of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount
for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the
aggregate, will be required. 

We have disclosed
certain individual legal proceedings in this filing.  Additionally, we
are involved in other unresolved legal actions that arise in the normal course
of business. The most prevalent of these unresolved actions involve disputes
related to product design, manufacture and performance liability (including
claimed asbestos and welding fumes exposure), contracts, employment issues or
intellectual property rights.   Although it is not possible to
predict with certainty the outcome of these unresolved legal actions, we believe
that these actions will not individually or in the aggregate have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or results of
operations. 

On May 14, 2007,
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a Notice of Violation to
Caterpillar Inc., alleging various violations of Clean Air Act Sections 203, 206
and 207.  EPA claims that Caterpillar violated such sections by
shipping engines and catalytic converter after-treatment devices separately,
introducing into commerce a number of uncertified and/or mis-built engines, and
failing to timely report emissions-related defects.  Caterpillar is
currently engaging in negotiations with EPA to resolve these issues, but it is
too early in the process to place precise estimates on the potential exposure to
penalties.  However, Caterpillar is cooperating with EPA and, based
upon initial discussions, and although penalties could potentially exceed $100
thousand, management does not believe that this issue will have a material
adverse impact on our financial position. 

On September 29,
2004, Kruse Technology Partnership (Kruse) filed a lawsuit against Caterpillar
in the United States District Court for the Central District of California
alleging that certain Caterpillar engines built from October 2002 to the present
infringe upon certain claims of three of Kruse's patents on engine fuel
injection timing and combustion strategies.  Kruse seeks monetary
damages, injunctive relief and a finding that the alleged infringement by
Caterpillar was willful.  Caterpillar denies Kruse's allegations,
believes they are without merit and filed a counterclaim seeking a declaration
from the court that Caterpillar is not infringing upon Kruse's patents and that
the patents are invalid and unenforceable.  The counterclaim filed by
Caterpillar is pending, and no trial date is currently scheduled.  In
the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of this matter will not have
a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, liquidity or
results of operations. 

Stock-Based
Compensation 

On January 1, 2006,
we adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123
(revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment," (SFAS 123R) using the modified
prospective transition method.  The modified prospective transition
method requires compensation expense to be recognized in the financial
statements for all awards granted after the date of adoption as well as for the
unvested portion of previously granted awards outstanding as of the date of
adoption.  Prior to the date of adoption of SFAS 123R, we used the
intrinsic-value based method, as described in Accounting Principles Board No.
25, to account for stock options and no compensation expense was recognized in
association with our stock awards.  Pro forma profit and profit per
share as if we had applied the fair value method were previously disclosed in
the footnotes in accordance with SFAS 148,  Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation   Transition and Disclosures.  

In anticipation of
the adoption of SFAS 123R, we did not modify the terms of any previously granted
options. Our stock incentive plans provide for the granting of nonqualified
options, stock-settled stock appreciation rights (SARs) and restricted stock
units (RSUs) to officers, directors and key employees of the
company.  In order to better align our employee stock option program
with the overall market, the number of options granted in 2005 was significantly
reduced from the previous year.  In response to this decrease, we
elected to immediately vest the 2005 grant.  In order to further align
our stock award program with the overall market, we adjusted our 2006 grant by
reducing the overall number of employee awards granted and utilized a mix of
SARs and option awards.  In 2007 to further align our stock award
program with the overall market, we adjusted our 2007 grant by reducing the
overall number of employee awards and utilizing RSUs in addition to the SARs and
option awards.  RSUs were granted to 3,300 employees with a 2007
compensation cost of $19 million. The 2006 and 2007 awards generally vest three
years after the date of grant.  At grant, SARs and option awards have
a term life of ten years.  Upon separation from service, if the
participant is 55 years of age or older with more than ten years of service, the
participant meets the criteria for a  Long Service Separation".  If
the  Long Service Separation  criteria are met, the vested options/SARs will
have a life that is the lesser of 10 years from the original grant date or five
years from the separation date. 

A-62   

We use a
lattice-based option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of options and
SARs granted.  We use the stock price on the day of grant reduced by
the present value of the estimated dividends to be paid during the vesting
period to estimate the fair value of the RSUs granted.  The adoption
of SFAS 123R reduced operating profit for the year ended December 31, 2006 by
$137 million and reduced profit after-tax by $92 million ($.14 per share basic
and $.09 per share diluted).  2007 stock-based compensation expense
was $146 million.  At December 31, 2007, $121 million of expense with
respect to unvested stock-based awards has yet to be recognized and will be
expensed over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.8 years. 

Retirement
Benefits 

In September 2006,
the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158 (SFAS 158),
"Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans," which amends SFAS 87 and SFAS 106 to require recognition of the
overfunded or underfunded status of pension and other postretirement benefit
plans on the balance sheet.  Under SFAS 158, gains and losses, prior
service costs and credits and any remaining transition amounts under SFAS 87 and
SFAS 106 that have not yet been recognized through net periodic benefit cost are
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax effects, until
they are amortized as a component of net periodic cost. Also, the measurement
date -- the date at which the benefit obligation and plan assets are measured --
is required to be the company's fiscal year-end. As required by SFAS 158, we
adopted the balance sheet recognition provisions at December 31, 2006 and will
adopt the year-end measurement date in 2008.  The adoption of the
balance sheet recognition provisions reduced December 31, 2006 assets by
approximately $500 million, increased liabilities by approximately $2.20 billion
and reduced stockholders' equity by approximately $2.70 billion. Also, we
reclassified approximately $500 million from current liabilities to long-term
liabilities based on the classification guidelines provided in SFAS
158.  We did not incur any violation of debt covenant agreements as a
result of the reduction in stockholders' equity.  We do not expect the
adoption of the year-end measurement date will have a material impact on our
financial statements. 

Additionally, SFAS
87 required the recognition of an Additional Minimum Liability if the market
value of plan assets was less than the accumulated benefit obligation at the end
of the measurement date.  The Additional Minimum Liability was
eliminated upon the adoption of SFAS 158. 

We recognized
pension expense of $361 million in 2007 as compared to $326 million in
2006. The increase in expense was primarily a result of a $44 million adjustment
to recognize previously unrecorded liabilities related to a subsidiary pension
plan, partially offset by the impact of expected asset returns on plan assets.
SFAS 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions," as amended by SFAS 158, requires
companies to discount future benefit obligations back to today's dollars using a
discount rate that is based on high-quality fixed-income investments. A decrease
in the discount rate increases the pension benefit obligation. This increase is
recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income and subsequently amortized
into earnings as an actuarial loss. SFAS 87 also requires companies to use an
expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for computing current year
pension expense. Differences between the actual and expected asset returns are
also recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income and subsequently
amortized into earnings as actuarial gains and losses. At the end of 2007, total
actuarial losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income were
$2.72 billion, as compared to $3.50 billion in 2006. The majority of
the actuarial losses are due to several years of declining discount rates,
partially offset by asset gains in recent years. The $780 million decrease
during 2007 was the result of a higher discount rate and better than expected
asset returns in 2007. 

In 2007, we
recognized other postretirement benefit expense of $311 million compared to
$363 million in 2006. The decrease in expense was primarily the result of
lower amortization of actuarial losses due to favorable demographic and health
care claims experience and the impact of expected asset returns on plan assets.
Actuarial losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income for other
postretirement benefit plans were $759 million at the end of 2007. These
losses mainly reflect several years of declining discount rates and an increase
in expected health care inflation. The losses were $400 million lower than
at the end of 2006 due to a higher discount rate in 2007 and lower than expected
health care claims experience, partially offset by an increase in the health
care trend rate assumption. 

Actuarial losses
for both pensions and other postretirement benefits will be impacted in future
periods by actual asset returns, actual health care inflation, discount rate
changes, actual demographic experience and other factors that impact these
expenses. These losses, reported in accumulated other comprehensive income, will
be amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost on a straight-line
basis over the average remaining service period of active employees expected to
receive benefits under the benefit plans. At the end of 2007, the average
remaining service period of active employees was 9 years for our U.S.
pension plans, 12 years for our non-U.S. pension plans and 7 years for
other postretirement benefit plans. We expect our amortization of net actuarial
losses to decrease approximately $120 million in 2008 as compared to 2007,
primarily due to favorable asset returns and an increased discount
rate. 

A-63   

For our U.S.
pension plans, our 2007 asset allocation was 70 percent equity securities,
27 percent debt securities and 3 percent cash, and our target allocation
for 2008 is 70 percent equity securities, 25 percent debt securities
and 5 percent real estate. The 2007 asset allocation for our non-U.S. pension
plans was 60 percent equity securities, 30 percent debt securities,
7 percent real estate and 3 percent other. The target allocation for 2008
for our non-U.S. pension plans is 62 percent equity securities,
30 percent debt securities, 7 percent real estate and 1 percent
other. Our target asset allocations reflect our investment strategy of
maximizing the rate of return on plan assets and the resulting funded status,
within an appropriate level of risk. The U.S. plans are rebalanced to plus or
minus five percentage points of the target asset allocation ranges on a monthly
basis. The frequency of rebalancing for the non-U.S. plans varies depending on
the plan. 

The use of certain
derivative instruments is permitted where appropriate and necessary for
achieving overall investment policy objectives. The U.S. plans currently utilize
futures contracts to offset current equity positions in order to rebalance the
total portfolio to the target asset allocation. During 2006 and 2007,
approximately 10 percent of the U.S. pension plans  assets were rebalanced from
equity to fixed income positions through the use of futures contracts. The
actual asset allocation percentages above represent this rebalancing effort. The
plans do not engage in futures contracts for speculative purposes. 

During 2007, we
made cash contributions of $11 million to our U.S. defined benefit pension
plans and $47 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. 

Although we have no
ERISA funding requirements in 2008, we expect to make approximately
$400 million of contributions during the year. We have adequate liquidity
resources to fund both U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans. 

Actuarial
assumptions have a significant impact on both pension and other postretirement
benefit expenses. The effects of a one percentage point change in our primary
actuarial assumptions on 2007 benefit costs and year-end obligations are
included in the table on page A-65. 

SENSITIVITY 

Foreign
Exchange Rate Sensitivity 

                      Machinery and
Engines use foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage unmatched
foreign currency cash inflow and outflow. Our objective is to minimize the risk
of exchange rate movements that would reduce the U.S. dollar value of our
foreign currency cash flow. Our policy allows for managing anticipated foreign
currency cash flow for up to five years. Based on the anticipated and firmly
committed cash inflow and outflow for our Machinery and Engines operations for
the next 12 months and the foreign currency derivative instruments in place
at year-end, a hypothetical 10 percent weakening of the U.S. dollar
relative to all other currencies would adversely affect our expected 2008 cash
flow for our Machinery and Engines operations by approximately
$100 million. Last year similar assumptions and calculations yielded a
potential $175 million adverse impact on 2007 cash flow.  We
determine our net exposures by calculating the difference in cash inflow and
outflow by currency and adding or subtracting outstanding foreign currency
derivative instruments. We multiply these net amounts by 10 percent to
determine the sensitivity. 

Since our policy
for Financial Products operations is to hedge the foreign exchange risk when the
currency of our debt portfolio does not match the currency of our receivable
portfolio, a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to
all other currencies would not have a material effect on our consolidated
financial position, results of operations or cash flow. Neither our policy nor
the effect of a 10 percent change in the value of the U.S. dollar has
changed from that reported at the end of last year. 

The effect of the
hypothetical change in exchange rates ignores the effect this movement may have
on other variables, including competitive risk. If it were possible to quantify
this competitive impact, the results would probably be different from the
sensitivity effects shown above. In addition, it is unlikely that all currencies
would uniformly strengthen or weaken relative to the U.S. dollar. In reality,
some currencies may weaken while others may strengthen. Our primary exposure
(excluding competitive risk) is to exchange rate movements in the British pound,
Japanese yen and euro. 

Interest
Rate Sensitivity 

                      For our Machinery
and Engines operations, we have the option to use interest rate swaps to lower
the cost of borrowed funds by attaching fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to
fixed-rate debt. A hypothetical 100 basis point adverse move (increase) in
interest rates along the entire interest rate yield curve would adversely affect
2008 pretax earnings of Machinery and Engines by $9 million. Last year,
similar assumptions and calculations yielded a potential $9 million adverse
impact on 2007 pretax earnings. This effect is caused by the interest rate
fluctuations on our short-term debt and fixed to floating interest rate
swaps. 

For our Financial
Products operations, we use interest rate derivative instruments primarily to
meet our match funding objectives and strategies. We have a match funding policy
whereby the interest rate profile (fixed or floating rate) of our debt portfolio
is matched to the interest rate profile of our earning asset portfolio (finance
receivables and operating leases) within certain parameters. In connection with
that policy, we use interest rate swap agreements to modify the debt structure.
Match funding assists us in maintaining our interest rate spreads, regardless of
the direction interest rates move. 

In order to
properly manage sensitivity to changes in interest rates, Financial Products
measures the potential impact of different interest rate assumptions on pretax
earnings. All on-balance sheet positions, including derivative financial
instruments, are included in the analysis. The primary assumptions included in
the analysis are that there are no new fixed rate assets or liabilities, the
proportion of fixed rate debt to fixed rate assets remains unchanged and the
level of floating rate assets and debt remain constant. Based on the
December 31, 2007 balance sheet under these assumptions, the analysis
estimates the impact of a 100 basis point immediate and sustained parallel rise
in interest rates to be a $19 million decrease to pretax earnings for
2007.  Last year, similar assumptions and calculations yielded a
potential $27 million adverse impact on 2007 pretax earnings. 

This analysis does
not necessarily represent our current outlook of future market interest rate
movement, nor does it consider any actions management could undertake in
response to changes in interest rates. Accordingly, no assurance can be given
that actual results would be consistent with the results of our
estimate. 

A-64   

Postretirement
      Benefit Plan Actuarial Assumptions Sensitivity 

Following are
      the effects of a one percentage-point change in our primary pension and
      other postretirement benefit actuarial assumptions (included in the
      following table) on 2007 pension and other postretirement benefits costs
      and obligations: 

A-65   

SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATING DATA  

We are providing
supplemental consolidating data for the purpose of additional analysis. 
The data has been grouped as follows: 

Consolidated  Caterpillar Inc.
and its subsidiaries. 

Machinery and Engines  The
Machinery and Engines data contained in the schedules on pages A-66 to A-68 are
"non-GAAP financial measures" as defined by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in Regulation G. These non-GAAP financial measures have no
standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and therefore, are unlikely to be
comparable with the calculation of similar measures for other companies.
Management does not intend these items to be considered in isolation or as a
substitute for the related GAAP measures. Caterpillar defines Machinery and
Engines as it is presented in the supplemental data as Caterpillar Inc. and
its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted for on the equity basis.
Machinery and Engines information relates to our design, manufacturing,
marketing and parts distribution operations. Financial Products information
relates to the financing to customers and dealers for the purchase and lease of
Caterpillar and other equipment. The nature of these businesses is different,
especially with regard to the financial position and cash flow items.
Caterpillar management utilizes this presentation internally to highlight these
differences. We also believe this presentation will assist readers in
understanding our business. 

Financial Products   primarily
our finance and insurance subsidiaries, Cat Financial and Cat
Insurance. 

Consolidating
Adjustments  eliminations of transactions between Machinery and Engines
and Financial Products. 

Pages A-66 to A-68
reconcile Machinery and Engines with Financial Products on the equity basis to
Caterpillar Inc. consolidated financial information. 

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted
      for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  revenues earned from Machinery and
      Engines. 

3  

Elimination of
      net expenses recorded by Machinery and Engines paid to Financial
      Products. 

4  

Elimination of
      interest expense recorded between Financial Products and Machinery and
      Engines. 

5  

Elimination of
      discount recorded by Machinery and Engines on receivables sold to
      Financial Products and of interest earned between Machinery and Engines
      and Financial Products. 

6  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  profit due to equity method of
    accounting. 

A-66   

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products
      accounted for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      receivables between Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products. 

3  

Reclassification
      of Machinery and Engines  trade receivables purchased by Cat Financial and
      Cat Financial's wholesale inventory receivables. 

4  

Elimination of
      Machinery and Engines  insurance premiums that are prepaid to Financial
      Products. 

5  

Elimination of
      Machinery and Engines  investment in Financial Products
      subsidiary. 

6  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  equity which is accounted for on Machinery and Engines
      on the equity basis. 

7  

Reclassification
      reflecting required netting of deferred tax assets/liabilities by taxing
      jurisdiction. 

8  

Elimination of
      debt between Machinery and Engines and Financial
  Products. 

9  

Elimination of
      payables between Machinery and Engines and Financial
    Products. 

10  

Elimination of
      prepaid insurance in Financial Products' accrued
  expenses. 

A-67   

1  

Represents
      Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries with Financial Products accounted
      for on the equity basis. 

2  

Elimination of
      Financial Products  profit after tax due to equity method of
      accounting. 

3  

Non-cash
      adjustment for the undistributed earnings from Financial
      Products. 

4  

Elimination of
      non-cash adjustments and changes in assets and liabilities related to
      consolidated reporting. 

5  

Reclassification
      of Cat Financial's cash flow activity from investing to operating for
      receivables that arose from the sale of inventory. 

6  

Net proceeds
      and payments to/from Machinery and Engines and Financial
      Products. 

7  

Change in
      investment and common stock related to Financial
  Products. 

8  

Elimination of
      dividends from Financial Products to Machinery and
      Engines.  

A-68   

OUTLOOK  

ECONOMIC
OUTLOOK 

We
expect 2008 economic growth in most of the world outside the United States to be
slightly slower than 2007. We expect growth in the United States to remain weak,
with recession a definite threat.  Recent economic data and Federal
Reserve Board comments confirm this growing concern. 

Specific economic
and industry assumptions include: 

U.S. interest
      rates:    The
      Fed recently indicated that a weakening economy is more of a threat than
      inflation and that it is prepared to move aggressively on interest
      rates.  We assume the federal funds rate will end the year below
      3 percent.  

U.S. economic
      growth:    We
      forecast the economy will grow 1 percent in 2008, slow enough that the
      National Bureau of Economic Research may eventually decide that a
      recession occurred.  We expect construction will likely remain
      distressed in 2008.  If the Fed continues to cut interest rates
      as we expect and the U.S. government takes action to stimulate economic
      growth, 2008 could be the bottom of this U.S. machinery
      cycle.  

U.S.
      housing:    Housing starts should
      slow from 1.35 million in 2007 to 1.1 million in 2008.  We
      expect continued downward pressure on the industry from a large inventory
      of unsold homes, tighter lending standards, increased home repossessions
      and lower home prices.  

U.S.
      nonresidential construction:    New contracts awarded
      should decline more than 4 percent in 2008, continuing a weakness that
      developed in the last half of 2007.  Negatives include tighter
      lending standards, reduced corporate cash flows, rising vacancy rates and
      a smaller increase in federal highway
  funding.  

U.S.
      coal:    This
      sector showed some improvement in fourth quarter 2007, and further
      recovery should occur in 2008.  We expect the recent rebound in
      coal prices and increased coal exports to drive the
      turnaround.  

European
      interest rates:    Financial
      markets are unsettled in Europe, and   we expect this will prompt the
      European Central Bank to cut interest rates to 3.75 percent and the Bank
      of England to make two additional reductions to 4.75
      percent.    

European
      economic growth:    Our forecast is for
      2.3 percent growth in 2008, down from 2.7 percent in 2007.  Both
      nonresidential building and infrastructure construction should improve,
      however housing declined in 2007 and should do so again in
      2008.  

Developing
      economies:    The robust recoveries
      in these economies should last throughout 2008.  Our forecasts
      are for 5.5 percent growth in Africa/Middle East, 7 percent in the CIS,
      4.5 percent in Latin America and 7.5 percent in
      Asia/Pacific.  Those growth rates are close to those of the past
      two years and should encourage further growth in
      construction.  

Metals
      mining:    World demand for
      metals should increase, and inventories remain tight.  We expect
      prices for most metals will remain attractive for new
      investment.  

Oil and
      Gas:    The
      world s spare oil production capacity remains low, and oil prices should
      average higher in 2008.  Higher prices should drive increased
      exploration, drilling, pipeline expenditures and tar sands development,
      which should benefit both machinery and engine
    sales.  

Electric
      Power:    Rapid growth in oil
      producing and commodity exporting nations should drive generator set
      demand.  Increased business investment in Europe should benefit
      demand for standby power.  

Marine:    Demand should benefit
      from increased world trade and favorable freight
      rates.  Shipyards are already contracting for 2009 and later
      berths.  

SALES
AND REVENUES OUTLOOK 

We re expecting 2008 to be another
record year with sales and revenues up 5 to 10 percent from
2007.  From a geographic perspective, we expect continued strength
outside North America and below average growth in North
America.  

A-69   

North America is expected to be the
weakest region for growth in 2008.  A weak U.S. economy in general and
the hard-hit housing sector in particular are key negative
drivers.  However, there are areas where we expect improvement in
North America in 2008.  

Sales related to energy and metals
      mining remain strong and are expected to improve again in
      2008.  

While sales to U.S. coal mines
      were depressed in 2007, rising coal prices and increasing exports are
      driving expected improvements in
2008.  

In 2007, dealers reduced their
      machine inventories by about $1.1 billion, resulting in company sales to
      North American dealers lower than dealer sales to end
      customers.  While we expect dealer sales to end users to decline
      again in 2008, company sales will benefit as a result of substantially
      lower forecasted changes to dealer inventories than we experienced in
      2007.  

While the industry for on-highway
      truck engines is still very weak as a result of very slow growth in the
      U.S. economy, we expect our sales to improve from the depressed levels of
      2007.  

Canada remains strong, driven by
      high commodity prices.  

Sales are expected to increase in the
range of 8 to 13 percent outside North America.  Strong rest of world
sales are being driven by solid economic growth in most regions, commodity
prices for metals, minerals and energy at levels that encourage our customers to
invest and continued investment in infrastructure throughout much of the
world.  

The sales outlook for 2008 includes
improved price realization of about 2 percent and about 1.5 percent positive
impact related to currency as a result of further weakening of the U.S.
dollar.  

We expect continued growth in Financial
Products for 2008.  Revenues are expected to increase approximately 8
percent versus 2007, primarily due to higher average earning assets at Cat
Financial and increased premiums at Cat Insurance.  

PROFIT
OUTLOOK 

The 2008 profit
outlook is an increase in profit per share in the range of 5 to 15 percent from
2007.  Key elements of the change in profit per share
include: 

Price realization improving about
      2 percent  

Higher sales volume, driven by
      continued growth outside North
America  

An overall increase in core
      operating costs of 2 to 2.5 percent in line with our estimate of
      inflation  

Material costs are expected to
      increase 1 to 1.5 percent below our estimate of
      inflation.  

R D expenses are forecast to
      increase 15 to 20 percent to support a significant investment in new
      products for the future, most notably new products to meet Tier IV
      emissions requirements.  

Period manufacturing, including
      depreciation expense, will be higher as a result of additional capital
      installations to support increased production capacity and the replacement
      of aging equipment.  Machinery and Engines capital expenditures
      are expected to be about $2.3 billion in
  2008.  

SG A expenses are expected to
      increase as a result of inflation and continued growth, but at a slower
      rate than sales.  

Variable manufacturing labor and
      overhead costs are expected to be relatively flat with 2007 as
      inflationary cost increases should be about offset by modest improvements
      in operating efficiency driven by our continued implementation of
      CPS.  We expect that deployment of CPS will have a positive
      impact on costs that will continue to grow over the next few
      years.  

Currency is expected to have a
      slightly negative impact on operating profit as the benefit to sales will
      be offset by the negative impact on
  costs.  

The tax rate is expected to be
      about 31.5 percent in 2008, a 1.5 percentage point increase from 2007, due
      in large part to the expiration of the U.S. research and development tax
      credit.  

* * * 

          The information
included in the Outlook section is forward looking and involves risks and
uncertainties that could significantly affect expected results. A discussion of
these risks and uncertainties is contained in Item 1A of this
Form 10-K. 

A-70   

SUPPLEMENTAL STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION  

Stock
      Purchase Plan 

Current
      stockholders and other interested investors may purchase Caterpillar Inc.
      common stock directly through the Investor Services Program sponsored and
      administered by our Transfer Agent.  Current stockholders can
      get more information on the program from our Transfer Agent using the
      contact information provided above. Non-stockholders can request program
      materials by calling: (866) 353-7849. The Investor Services Program
      materials are available on-line from our Transfer Agent's website or by
      following a link from
www.CAT.com/dspp. 

Company
      Information 

Current
      information -  

phone
      our Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858)
      244-2080 (Outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail,
      listen to a summary of Caterpillar s latest financial results and current
      outlook, or to request a copy of results by fax or
      mail       

request, view, or download
      materials on-line or register for email alerts by
      visiting  www.CAT.com/materialsrequest   

Historical
      information - 

view/download on-line at
       www.CAT.com/historical          

Annual
      Meeting 

On Wednesday,
      June 11, 2008, at 1:30 p.m., Central Time, the annual meeting of
      stockholders will be held at the Northern Trust Building, Chicago,
      Illinois. Proxy materials are being sent to stockholders with this report
      on or about May 2, 2008. 

Internet 

Visit us on
      the Internet at www.CAT.com. 

                    Information
      contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this
      document. 

Common
      Stock (NYSE: CAT) 

Listing
      Information:  Caterpillar common stock is listed on the New York and
      Chicago stock exchanges in the United States, and on stock exchanges in
      Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britain and
      Switzerland.  

Compliance:    For
      2007, Caterpillar filed an Annual CEO Certification in compliance with New
      York stock exchange rules and CEO/CFO certifications in compliance with
      Sections 302 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  These
      certifications are included as exhibits to our Form 10-K filing for
      the relevant fiscal year.  

Price
      Ranges:  Quarterly price ranges of Caterpillar common stock on the
      New York Stock Exchange, the principal market in which the stock is
      traded, were:  

A-71   

Performance
      Graph:   Total
      Cumulative Stockholder Return for Five-Year Period Ending December 31,
      2007  

The
      graph below shows the cumulative stockholder return assuming an investment
      of $100 on December 31, 2002, and reinvestment of dividends issued
      thereafter.  

A-72   

DIRECTORS AND
OFFICERS  

Audit  

Compensation  

Governance  

Public
    Policy  

W. Frank
    Blount  

*   

John R.
    Brazil  

Daniel M.
      Dickinson  

John T.
    Dillon  

Eugene V.
    Fife  

*   

Gail D.
    Fosler  

Juan
    Gallardo  

David R.
    Goode  

Peter A.
      Magowan  

William A.
      Osborn  

*   

James W.
    Owens  

Charles D.
      Powell  

*   

Edward B. Rust,
      Jr.  

Joshua I.
    Smith  

*
      Chairman of Committee  

James
      W. Owens  

Chairman
      and Chief Executive Officer  

Richard
      P. Lavin  

Group
      President  

Stuart
      L. Levenick  

Group
      President  

Douglas
      R. Oberhelman  

Group
      President  

Edward
      J. Rapp  

Group
      President  

Gerald
      L. Shaheen   1  

Group
      President  

G rard
      R. Vittecoq  

Group
      President  

Steven
      H. Wunning  

Group
      President  

Kent
      M. Adams  

Vice
      President  

William
      P. Ainsworth  

Vice
      President  

Ali
      M. Bahaj  

Vice
      President  

Sidney
      C. Banwart  

Vice
      President  

Michael
      J. Baunton  

Vice
      President  

Rodney C.
      Beeler 

Vice
      President  

Mary
      H. Bell  

Vice
      President  

Thomas
      J. Bluth  

Vice
      President  

James
      B. Buda  

Vice
      President, General Counsel and Secretary  

David
      B. Burritt  

Vice
      President and Chief Financial Officer  

Richard
      J. Case  

Vice
      President  

Christopher
      C. Curfman  

Vice
      President  

Paolo
      Fellin  

Vice
      President  

Steven
      L. Fisher  

Vice
      President  

Thomas
      A. Gales  

Vice
      President  

Stephen
      A. Gosselin  

Vice
      President  

Hans
      A. Haefeli  

Vice
      President  

John S.
      Heller 

Vice
      President and Chief Information Officer  

Gwenne A.
      Henricks 

Vice
      President  

Stephen P.
      Larson 

Vice
      President  

William D. Mayo 1   

Vice
      President  

Daniel M.
      Murphy 

Vice
      President  

James J.
      Parker 

Vice
      President  

Mark R.
      Pflederer 

Vice
      President  

William J.
      Rohner 

Vice
      President  

Christiano V.
      Schena 

Vice
      President  

William F.
      Springer 

Vice
      President  

Gary A.
      Stampanato 

Vice
      President  

Gary A.
      Stroup 

Vice
      President  

Tana L.
      Utley 

Vice
      President  

James D.
      Waters, Jr. 

Vice
      President  

Robert T.
      Williams 

Vice
      President  

Jananne A.
      Copeland 

Chief
      Accounting Officer  

Edward J.
      Scott 

Chief
      Ethics and Compliance Officer  

Bradley M.
      Halverson 

Controller  

Kevin E.
      Colgan 

Treasurer  

Robin D.
      Beran 

Assistant
      Treasurer 

Tinkie E.
      Demmin 

Assistant
      Secretary 

Laurie J.
      Huxtable 

Assistant
      Secretary 

A-73   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 ex_21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES & AFFILIATES

ex_21.htm 

EXHIBIT
      21 

CATERPILLAR
      INC.  

                    Subsidiaries 
      and  Affiliated
      Companies   

                   (as of December 31,
      2007)  

Subsidiaries  (51%
      or more ownership)  

Name of Company  

Where
    Organized  

10G
      LLC 

Delaware 

Acefun S.A.
      de C.V. 

Mexico 

Aceros
      Fundidos Internacionales LLC 

Delaware 

Aceros
      Fundidos Internacionales S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Advanced
      Filtration Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

AFSI Europe
      s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Amberly
      Investments 

New
      Zealand 

Anchor
      Coupling Inc. 

Delaware 

ARCH
      Development Fund I, L.P. 

Delaware 

Asia Power
      Systems (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

AsiaTrak
      (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

Bio-Energy
      Partners 

Illinois 

CAE Co.,
      Ltd. 

Japan 

Carter
      Machinery Company, Incorporated 

Delaware 

Carter
      Rental, Inc. 

Virginia 

Cat
      Redistribution Services Corporation 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      Central Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      East Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Cat Rental
      West Japan Ltd. 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      (Africa) (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Funding Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Funding Parent Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Holding Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Investments Funding Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (Bermuda) Investments Parent Company 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      (China) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (China) Investment Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (China) Machinery Components Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (HK) Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Caterpillar
      (U.K.) Limited 

England 

Caterpillar
      (Xuzhou) Design Center Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      AccessAccount Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Americas C.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Americas Co. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Americas Funding Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Americas Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Americas Services Co. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Asia Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      Asia Pacific L.P. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Belgium S. A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Brasil Servicos Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Brazil LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Business Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      CDD, S.L. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      China Limited 

Hong
      Kong 

Caterpillar
      CIS LLC 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      CMC, LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Holding S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Commercial LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Northern Europe Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Commercial S.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Commercial S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Commercial Services S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Commerciale S.r.L. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Communications LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Corporativo Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Credito, S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Financiera de Objecto Multiple, E.
      N.R. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      DC Pension Trust 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Distribution Mexico S.R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Distribution Services Europe B.V.B.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Elkader LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Engine Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Environmental Technologies Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      European Finance s.r.o. 

Czechoslovakia 

Caterpillar
      Finance Corporation 

Japan 

Caterpillar
      Finance France S.A. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Finance, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Caterpillar
      Financial Acquisition Funding LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Acquisition Funding Partners 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      Financial Australia Limited 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Corporacion Financiera, S.A., E.F.C. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Financial Dealer Funding LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Funding Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Member Company 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial New Zealand Limited 

New
      Zealand 

Caterpillar
      Financial Nordic Services AB 

Sweden 

Caterpillar
      Financial Nova Scotia Corporation 

Nova
      Scotia 

Caterpillar
      Financial OOO 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Receivables Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Renting, S.A. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Financial S.A. Arrendamento Mercantil 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Financial S.A. Credito, Financiamento e Investimento 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Financial SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (Dubai) Limited 

United Arab
      Emirates 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (Ireland) plc 

Ireland 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services CR, s.r.o. 

Czech
      Republic 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Korea, Ltd. 

Korea 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Limited Les Services Financiers Caterpillar
      Limitee 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Norway AS 

Norway 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Philippines Inc. 

Philippines 

Caterpillar
      Financial Services Poland Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Fomento Comercial Ltda. 

Brazil 

Caterpillar
      Forest Products Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Formacion Tecnica, S. L. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      GB, L.L.C. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Global Mining Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Global Services LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Group Services S.A. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Holding (France) S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Holding Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Holding Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Holding Spain, S.L. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Holdings Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Hungary Component Manufacturing Ltd. 

Hungary 

Caterpillar
      Hydraulics Italia S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Impact Products Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      India Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Institute (Vic-Tas) Pty Ltd 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Institute (WA) Pty Ltd 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Co. Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Company 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Holdings Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Insurance Services Corporation 

Tennessee 

Caterpillar
      International Finance Luxembourg, S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      International Finance plc 

Ireland 

Caterpillar
      International Holding S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      International Investments Co peratie U.A. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      International Investments S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      International Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      International Services Corporation 

Nevada 

Caterpillar
      International Services del Peru S.A. 

Peru 

Caterpillar
      Investments 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      LACD Sarl 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Panama, S. de R.L. 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services de Puerto Rico, S. en C. 

Puerto
      Rico 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Services, S.R.L. 

Costa
      Rica 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Servicios de Chile Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Latin America Support Services, S. DE R.L. 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Leasing (Thailand) Limited 

Thailand 

Caterpillar
      Leasing Chile, S.A. 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Leasing GmbH (Leipzig) 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Life Insurance Company 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      Logistics (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Administrative Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de
      C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Client Administrative Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de
      C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Client Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics FT Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Logistics ML Services France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (France) S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (Tianjin) Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services (UK) Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Canada Ltd. 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services China Limited 

China 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Germany GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services India Private Limited 

India 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International LLC 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services International N.V. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Polska Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services Spain, S.A. 

Spain 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services, Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Services-Egypt Ltd. 

Egypt 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services Italia S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Logistics Supply Chain Services Limited Liability Company 

Hungary 

Caterpillar
      Luxembourg Group S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      Luxembourg S.a.r.l. 

Luxembourg 

Caterpillar
      Marine Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Marine Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Materiels Routiers S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Mining Chile Servicios Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Motoren (Guangdong) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Motoren GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Motoren Rostock GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Motoren Verwaltungs-GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      NACD SARL 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      North America C.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      NZ Funding Parent Limited 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      of Australia Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      of Canada Corporation 

Canada 

Caterpillar
      of Delaware, Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Overseas Credit Corporation S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Overseas Investment Holding, S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Overseas S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Panama Services SA 

Panama 

Caterpillar
      Paving Products Inc. 

Oklahoma 

Caterpillar
      Paving Products Xuzhou Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Pension Trust Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Poland Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Caterpillar
      Power Generations Systems L.L.C. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Systems Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Systems y Compa ia Limitada 

Nicaragua 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures International Mauritius Ltd. 

Mauritius 

Caterpillar
      Power Ventures International, Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Caterpillar
      Prodotti Stradali S.r.l. 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Product Development S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Product Services Corporation 

Missouri 

Caterpillar
      R D Center (China) Co., Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Redistribution Services Inc. 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Redistribution Services International S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Reman Powertrain Indiana LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Reman Powertrain Services, Inc. 

South
      Carolina 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Remanufacturing Services (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar
      Renting France S.A.S. 

France 

Caterpillar
      S.A.R.L. 

Switzerland 

Caterpillar
      Services Limited 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Servicios Limitada 

Chile 

Caterpillar
      Servicios Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Servizi Italia Srl 

Italy 

Caterpillar
      Skinningrove Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Special Services Belgium S.P.R.L. 

Belgium 

Caterpillar
      Switchgear Holding Inc. 

Georgia 

Caterpillar
      Technologies Singapore Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Caterpillar
      Torreon S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Caterpillar
      Tosno, L.L.C. 

Russia 

Caterpillar
      Transmissions France S.A.R.L. 

France 

Caterpillar
      Trimble Control Technologies LLC 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      UGM Techonolgy Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      UK Acquisition Partners LP 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Employee Trust Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      UK Group Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Holding Company Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Caterpillar
      UK Holdings Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Caterpillar
      Underground Mining Pty. Ltd. 

Australia 

Caterpillar
      Work Tools B.V. 

Netherlands 

Caterpillar
      Work Tools Verwaltungs-GmbH 

Germany 

Caterpillar
      Work Tools, Inc. 

Kansas 

Caterpillar
      World Trading Corporation 

Delaware 

Caterpillar
      Xuzhou Ltd. 

China 

Caterpillar/SCB
      Investments LP 

Delaware 

Caterpillar/SCB
      Receivables Finance LP 

Nevada 

Catsub I,
      Inc. 

Oregon 

Centre de
      Distribution de Wallonie S.A. 

Belgium 

CFRC/CFMC
      Investments, LLC 

Delaware 

Chemetron-Railway
      Products, Inc. 

Delaware 

CM Rental
      Hokkaido Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Depositary
      (Bermuda) Limited 

Bermuda 

East Japan
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Construction Equipment Sales, Ltd. 

Japan 

Easytop
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

EDC European
      Excavator Design Center GmbH   Co. KG 

Germany 

EDC European
      Excavator Design Center Verwaltungs GmbH 

Germany 

Elektrocieplawnia
      Starahowice Sp. z o.o. 

Poland 

Energy
      Services International Limited 

Bermuda 

Energy
      Technologies Institute LLP 

England and
      Wales 

Ensambladora
      Tecnologica de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Eurenov
      S.A.S. 

France 

Euronov
      Polska 

Poland 

F.G. Wilson
      (Engineering) Limited 

Northern
      Ireland 

F.G. Wilson
      (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

F.G. Wilson
      (USA) LLC 

Delaware 

F.G. Wilson
      Generators India Private Limited 

India 

FCC Equipment
      Financing, Inc. 

Delaware 

FM
      Industries, Inc. 

Texas 

Forchester do
      Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Forchester
      International S.A. 

Uruguay 

Germanischer
      Lloyd AG 

Germany 

GFCM
      Servicios, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Guangzhou MaK
      Diesel Engine Limited Company 

China 

Hokkaido
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Construction Equipment Sales, Ltd. 

Japan 

Inmobiliaria
      Conek, S.A. 

Mexico 

IronPlanet
      Australia Pty Limited 

Australia 

Kentuckiana
      Railcar Repair   Storage Facility, LLC 

Indiana 

M.O.P.E.S.A.
      Motores Power, S.A. 

Mexico 

Magnum Power
      Products, LLC 

Delaware 

MaK Americas
      Inc. 

Illinois 

MaK
      Beteiligungs GmbH 

Germany 

MaK Power
      Systems Lanka (Private) Ltd. 

Sri
      Lanka 

Mec-Track
      S.r.l. 

Italy 

Metalmark
      Financial Services Limited 

England and
      Wales 

MICA Energy
      Systems 

Michigan 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. 

Delaware 

Monte Rio
      Power Corporation Ltd. 

Bermuda 

Motori
      Perkins S.P.A. 

Italy 

Necoles
      Investments B.V. 

Netherlands 

Okinawa
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Construction Equipment Sales, Ltd. 

Japan 

P. T.
      Caterpillar Finance Indonesia 

Indonesia 

P. T. Natra
      Raya 

Indonesia 

P. T. Solar
      Services Indonesia 

Indonesia 

Perkins
      Engines (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd 

Singapore 

Perkins
      Engines Company Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Engines, Inc. 

Maryland 

Perkins
      France (S.A.S.) 

France 

Perkins
      Holdings Limited LLC 

Delaware
      and 

                  England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      International Inc. 

Delaware 

Perkins
      Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Motoren GmbH 

Germany 

Perkins
      Motores do Brasil Ltda. 

Brazil 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines Limited 

England and
      Wales 

Perkins
      Shibaura Engines LLC 

Delaware 

Perkins
      Technology Inc. 

Delaware 

Pioneer
      Distribution, Inc. 

South
      Carolina 

Polyhose
      India (Rubber) Private Limited 

India 

Premier
      Automotive Parts Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Progress
      Metal Reclamation Company 

Kentucky 

Progress Rail
      Canada Corporation 

Canada 

Progress Rail
      Holdings Inc. 

Alabama 

Progress Rail
      Raceland Corporation 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Services Corporation 

Alabama 

Progress Rail
      Services de Mexico S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Progress Rail
      Services Holdings Corp. 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      Services LLC 

Delaware 

Progress Rail
      TransCanada Corporation 

Nova
      Scotia 

Progress
      Vanguard Corporation 

Delaware 

Przedsiebiorstwem
      Energetyki Cieplncj (Bugaj) Sp. Z o.o. 

Poland 

Railcar,
      Ltd. 

Georgia 

Rapisarda
      Industries Srl 

Italy 

RelayStar
      S.A. 

Belgium 

S   L
      Railroad, LLC 

Nebraska 

Sabre Engines
      Limited 

England 

SCM
      Accounting Service Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

SCM Akashi
      General Services Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

SCM Operator
      Training Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

SCM Sagami
      Engineering Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

SCM Sagami
      General Services Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

SCM Singapore
      Holdings Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

SCM System
      Service Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

SEM Service
        Distribution Centre 

United Arab
      Emirates 

Servicios
      Administrativos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Servicios
      Ejecutivos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Servicios
      Ferroviarios Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Servicios
      Logisticos Progress S. de R.L. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Shin
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Ltd. 

Japan 

SNOM
      S.A.S. 

France 

Societe de
      Electricite d el Bibane 

Tunisia 

Societe
      Industrial Rubber Hoses Sarl 

Tunisia 

Solar
      Turbines Canada Ltd./Ltee. 

Canada 

Solar
      Turbines Europe S.A. 

Belgium 

Solar
      Turbines Incorporated 

Delaware 

Solar
      Turbines International Company 

Delaware 

Solar
      Turbines Malaysia Sdn Bhd 

Malaysia 

Solar
      Turbines Overseas Pension Scheme Limited 

Guernsey 

Solar
      Turbines Services Company 

California 

Solar
      Turbines Services Nigeria Limited 

Nigeria 

Solar
      Turbines Services of Argentina S.R.L. 

Argentina 

Solar
      Turbines Trinidad   Tobago 

Trinidad and
      Tobago 

SPL Software
      Alliance LLC 

Delaware 

STI Capital
      Company 

Delaware 

Tech Itoh
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Tecnologia
      Modificada, S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Turbinas
      Solar de Venezuela, C.A. 

Venezuela 

Turbo
      Tecnologia de Reparaciones S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Turbomach
      (India) Private Limited 

India 

Turbomach
      Asia Ltd. 

Thailand 

Turbomach
      Deutschland GmbH 

Germany 

Turbomach
      Endustriyel Gaz Turbinleri Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited 

Turkey 

Turbomach
      Energie S.A.R.L. 

France 

Turbomach
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Turbomach
      Netherlands B.V. 

Netherlands 

Turbomach
      Pakistan (Private) Limited 

Pakistan 

Turbomach
      S.r.L. 

Italy 

Turbomach SA
      - Spain 

Spain 

Turbomach SA
      - Switzerland 

Switzerland 

Turbomach Sp.
      Z o.o. 

Poland 

Turboservices
      SDN BHD 

Malaysia 

Turner
      Powertrain Systems Limited 

England and
      Wales 

UK Hose
      Assembly Limited 

England and
      Wales 

United
      Industries Corporation 

Kentucky 

VALA (UK)
      LP 

England and
      Wales 

VALA
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

VALA
      Inc. 

Delaware 

VALA
      LLC 

Delaware 

Veratech
      Holding B.V. 

Netherlands 

West Japan
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Construction Equipment Sales, Ltd. 

Japan 

West Virginia
      Auto Shredding Inc. 

West
      Virginia 

Wright
      Equipment Company (Proprietary) Limited 

South
      Africa 

XPart
      Limited 

United
      Kingdom 

Affiliated 
      Companies (50% and less ownership)  

Name of Company  

Where
    Organized  

A.S.V.,
      Inc. 

Minnesota 

Aiwa Co.,
      Ltd. 

Japan 

Akoya,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

ASIMCO
      International Casting (Shanxi) Co. Ltd. 

China 

Cat Rental
      Kyushu Ltd. 

Japan 

Central Japan
      Caterpillar Mitsubishi Construction Equipment Sales, Ltd. 

Japan 

Clean World
      Co. 

Japan 

Diamond
      Office Management Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Energyst
      B.V. 

Netherlands 

Federal
      Financial Services LLC 

Delaware 

Firefly
      Energy Inc. 

Delaware 

FMS Equipment
      Rentals Inc. 

Delaware 

Hama-rental
      Co. 

Japan 

Hokken
      Service Co. 

Japan 

Intelligent
      Switchgear Organization LLC 

Delaware 

Ironmart
      LLC 

Delaware 

IronPlanet.com,
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Jupiter Power
      (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. 

Cambodia 

Jupiter Power
      Asia Co., Ltd. 

Cambodia 

Kiden Lease
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

K-Lea Co.,
      Ltd. 

Japan 

Loegering
      Mfg. Inc. 

North
      Dakota 

Machida Kiko
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

MaK Trainings
      GmbH 

Germany 

MCFA Canada
      Ltd. 

Ontario 

MCFA FSC
      Inc. 

Barbados 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift America de Argentina S.A. 

Argentina 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift Asia Pte. Ltd. 

Singapore 

Mitsubishi
      Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. 

Netherlands 

Motores
      Diesel Andinos S.A. 

Peru 

Nagano Kouki
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Nihon Kenki
      Lease Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Pioneer
      Machinery LLC 

Delaware 

PMHC
      LLC 

Delaware 

Qingzhou
      Aoweier Engineering Machinery Co., Ltd. 

China 

Qingzhou
      Shandong Logistics Co., Ltd. 

China 

Rapidparts
      Inc. 

Delaware 

Sanko Rental
      Co. 

Japan 

Shandong SEM
      Machinery Co Ltd. 

China 

Technocast,
      S.A. de C.V. 

Mexico 

Tohoku Rental
      Service Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Tokyo Rental
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Tone Lease
      Co. 

Japan 

Tri-County
      Venture Capital Fund I, LLC 

Delaware 

Tunnel Rental
      Co., Ltd. 

Japan 

Yeep
      Co. 

Japan 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 8
 ex_23.htm
 PWC CONSENT

ex_23.htm 

EXHIBIT
23 

CONSENT
OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation
by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-43133,
33-46194, 333-22041, 333-43983, 333-57512, 333-71468, 333-136265, 333-135123,
333-135465, 33-40393, 33-39120) and Form S-8 (Nos. 2-97450, 333-37353, 33-8003,
333-03609, 333-41464, 333-98197, 333-115837, 333-32853, 333-32851, 333-111355,
333-128342, 333-135467, 333-133275, 333-133266, 333-133265, 333-141548) and Form
S-4 (No. 333-121003) of Caterpillar Inc. of our report dated February 21, 2008
relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.  

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

      PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 

      Peoria,
Illinois 

      February 21,
2008 

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 ex_31-1.htm
 CEO 302 CERTIFICATION

ex_31-1.htm 

EXHIBIT
  31.1  

SECTION 302
      CERTIFICATION  

I, James W. Owens, certify
      that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this annual report
      on Form 10-K of Caterpillar Inc.;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report
      does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to
      st  ate a material fact
      necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under
      which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
      covered by this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the
      financial statements, and othe  r financial information included
      in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
      condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of,
      and for, the periods presented in this report;  

4.  

The registrant's other
      certi  fying officer
      and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
      and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
      and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(f) an  d   15d-15(f)) for the registrant and
      we have:  

a)  

designed such disclosure controls
      and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
      designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
      relating to the registrant, inclu  ding its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
      particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal control
      over financial reporting, or caused such internal control ov  er financial reporting to be
      designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
      the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
      statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
      accountin  g  
  principles;  

c)  

evaluated the effectiveness of the
      registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
      report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
      and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by th  is report based on such
      evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this report any
      change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that
      occurred during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the ca  se of an annual report) that has
      materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting;
      and  

5.  

The registrant's other certifying
      officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent   evaluation of internal control
      over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
      committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
      equivalent function):  

a)  

all significant deficiencies and
      material weaknesses in   the design or operation of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize
      and report financial information; and  

b)  

any fraud, whether or not
      material, that   involves management or other
      employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control
      over financial reporting.  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/ James W.
      Owens  

Chairman of the Board
      and  

                 Chief Executive
      Officer  

(James W.
      Owens)  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 ex_31-2.htm
 CFO 302 CERTIFICATION

ex_31-2.htm 

EXHIBIT
  31.2  

SECTION 302
      CERTIFICATION  

I, David B. Burritt, certify
      that:  

1.  

I have reviewed this annual report
      on Form 10-K of Caterpillar Inc.;  

2.  

Based on my knowledge, this report
      does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit
      to   state a material
      fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
      under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
      period covered by this report;  

3.  

Based on my knowledge, the
      financial statements, and o  ther financial information
      included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
      financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
      registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
      report;  

4.  

The registrant's other
      ce  rtifying officer
      and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls
      and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))
      and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act
      Rules 13a-15(f)     and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
      and we have:  

a)  

designed such disclosure controls
      and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be
      designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
      relating to the registrant, in  cluding its consolidated
      subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
      particularly during the period in which this report is being
      prepared;  

b)  

designed such internal control
      over financial reporting, or caused such internal control   over financial reporting to be
      designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding
      the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
      statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
      accoun  t  ing
    principles;  

c)  

evaluated the effectiveness of the
      registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this
      report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
      and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by   this report; based on such
      evaluation; and  

d)  

disclosed in this report any
      change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that
      occurred during the registrants most recent fiscal quarter (the
      registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the   case of an annual report) that
      has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
      registrant's internal control over financial reporting;
      and  

5.  

The registrant's other certifying
      officer and I have disclosed, based on our most rec  ent evaluation of internal control
      over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
      committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
      equivalent function):  

a)  

all significant deficiencies and
      material weaknesses   in the design or operation of
      internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
      adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize
      and report financial information; and  

b)  

any fraud, whether or not
      material, th  at
      involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the
      registrant's internal controls over financial
      reporting.  

February 22,
      2008  

/s/ David B.
      Burritt  

Vice President
      and  

                 Chief Financial
      Officer  

(David B.
      Burritt)  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 ex_32.htm
 906 CERTIFICATION

ex_32.htm 

EXHIBIT
      32 

CERTIFICATION
      PURSUANT TO 

                18
      U.S.C. SECTION 1350 

                AS
      ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 

                SECTION
      906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection
      with the annual report of Caterpillar Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K
      for the period ending December 31, 2007 as filed with the Securities and
      Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), the undersigned
      hereby certify pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
      Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of our
      knowledge: 

(1) 

The Report
      fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
      Securities and Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 

The
      information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
      respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
      Company. 

February 22, 2008 

/s/ James W.
      Owens  

Chairman of the Board
      and  

                 Chief Executive
      Officer  

(James W.
      Owens)  

February 22, 2008  

/s/ David B.
      Burritt  

Vice President
      and  

                 Chief Financial
      Officer  

(David B.
      Burritt)  

</EX-32>

<EX-99.1>
 12
 ex_99-1.htm
 NYSE ANNUAL CEO CERTIFICATION

ex_99-1.htm 

EXHIBIT
99.1  

Form Last Updated by the NYSE
      on April 28, 2006  

NYSE
      Regulation 

Domestic
      Company 

                Section
      303A 

                Annual
      CEO Certification 

As the Chief
      Executive Officer of  Caterpillar Inc.
      (CAT)  and as required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock
      Exchange Listed Company Manual, I hereby certify that as of the date
      hereof I am not aware of any violation by the Company of NYSE's corporate
      governance listing standards, other than has been notified to the Exchange
      pursuant to Section 303A.12(b) and disclosed on  Exhibit H  to the Company's Domestic Company
      Section 303A Annual Written Affirmation. 

This
      certification is: 

X 

Without
      qualification 

or 

With
      qualification 

By: 

/s/
      James W. Owens 

Printed
      Name: 

James W.
      Owens 

Title: 

Chairman and
      Chief Executive Officer 

Date: 

July 03,
      2007 

</EX-99.1>

10-K
 23
 form10k_2007.pdf
 PDF OF 10K AND EXHIBITS

